(a) The owner or operator shall comply with all applicable State implementation plan emission limits and (subject to any expiration date) all federally enforceable emission limitations which are contained in an order, decree, permit, or settlement agreement for the control of emissions from offtake systems, topside port lids, coke oven doors, and charging operations in effect on September 15, 1992, or which have been modified according to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Nothing in this subpart shall affect the enforcement of such State implementation plan emission limitations (or, subject to any expiration date, such federally enforceable emission limitations contained in an order, decree, permit, or settlement agreement) in effect on September 15, 1992, or which have been modified according to the provisions in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) No such State implementation plan emission limitation (or, subject to any expiration date, such federally enforceable emission limitation contained in an order, decree, permit, or settlement agreement) in effect on September 15, 1992, may be modified under the Act unless:
(1) Such modification is consistent with all requirements of section 110 of the Act; and either
(i) Such modification ensures that the applicable emission limitations and format (e.g., single pass v. multiday average) in effect on September 15, 1992, will continue in effect; or
(ii) Such modification includes a change in the method of monitoring (except frequency unless frequency was indicated in the State implementation plan, or subject to any expiration date, other federally enforceable requirements contained in an order, decree, permit, or settlement agreement) that is more stringent than the method of monitoring in effect on September 15, 1992, and that ensures coke oven emission reductions greater than the emission reductions required on September 15, 1992. The burden of proof in demonstrating the stringency of the methods of monitoring is borne by the party requesting the modification and must be made to the satisfaction of the Administrator; or
(iii) Such modification makes the emission limitations more stringent while holding the format unchanged, makes the format more stringent while holding the emission limitations unchanged, or makes both more stringent.
(2) Any industry application to make a State implementation plan revision or other adjustment to account for differences between Method 303 in appendix A to this part and the State's method based on paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section shall be submitted within 12 months after October 27, 1993.
(d) Except as specified in § 63.307(f), nothing in this subpart shall limit or affect any authority or obligation of Federal, State, or local agencies to establish emission limitations or other requirements more stringent than those specified in this subpart.
(e) Except as provided in § 63.302(c), section 112(g) of the Act shall not apply to sources subject to this subpart.
§ 63.313
Implementation and enforcement.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition
to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (d) of this section are retained by the Administrator and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) Withdrawal of authority:
(1) Whenever the Administrator learns that a delegated agency has not fully carried out the inspections and performance tests required under § 63.309 for each applicable emission point of each battery each day, the Administrator shall immediately notify the agency. Unless the delegated agency demonstrates to the Administrator's satisfaction within 15 days of notification that the agency is consistently carrying out the inspections and performance tests required under § 63.309 in the manner specified in the preceding sentence, the Administrator shall notify the coke oven battery owner or operator that inspections and performance tests shall be carried out according to § 63.309(a)(5). When the Administrator determines that the delegated agency is prepared to consistently perform all the required inspections and performance tests each day, the Administrator shall give the coke oven battery owner or operator at least 15 days notice that implementation will revert to the previously delegated agency.
(2) In addition to the provisions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Administrator may also withdraw delegation of authority pursuant to the provisions of § 63.96 of subpart E of this part.
(d) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.300 and 63.302 through 63.308 (except the authorities in 63.306(a)(2) and (d)).
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of any changes to section 2 of Method 303 in appendix A of this part.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(5) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(6) Approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.
[68 FR 37346, June 23, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 55738, July 5, 2024]
§ 63.314
Fenceline monitoring provisions.
For each by-product coke oven battery facility as defined in § 63.301 of this subpart, beginning no later than July 7, 2025, the owner or operator of a coke manufacturing facility shall conduct sampling along the facility property boundary and analyze the samples in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.
(a) The owner or operator must conduct sampling along the facility property boundary and analyze the samples in accordance with Methods 325A and 325B in appendix A to this part and paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(2) of this section. The monitoring perimeter may be located within the facility, inside the facility property boundary. However, the monitoring perimeter must encompass all potential sources of benzene that are located within the facility's property boundary.
(1) The target analyte is benzene. The owner or operator must follow the procedure in section 9.6 of Method 325B in appendix A to this part to determine the detection limit of benzene for each sampler used to collect samples and blanks.
(2) The owner or operator must use a sampling period and sampling frequency as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(iii) of this section.
(i) A 14-day sampling period must be used unless a shorter sampling period is determined to be necessary under
paragraph (e) or (g) of this section. A sampling period is defined as the period during which a sampling tube is deployed at a specific sampling location with the diffusive sampling end cap in-place and does not include the time required to analyze the sample. For the purpose of this subpart, a 14-day sampling period may be no shorter than 13 calendar days and no longer than 15 calendar days, but the routine sampling period must be 14 calendar days.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the frequency of sample collection must be once each contiguous 14-day sampling period, such that the beginning of the next 14-day sampling period begins immediately upon the completion of the previous 14-day sampling period.
(iii) When an individual monitor consistently achieves results for benzene at or below the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to use the applicable minimum sampling frequency specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (E) of this section for that monitoring site. When calculating Δc for the monitoring period when using this alternative for burden reduction, use zero for the lowest sampling result for each monitoring period where one or more samples was not taken and/or analyzed for benzene.
(A) If every sample at a monitoring site is at or below the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for 2 years (52 consecutive samples), every other sampling period can be skipped for that monitoring site,
i.e.,
sampling will occur approximately once per month.
(B) If every sample at a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(A) of this section is at or below the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for 2 years (
i.e.,
26 consecutive “monthly” samples), five 14-day sampling periods can be skipped for that monitoring site following each period of sampling,
i.e.,
sampling will occur approximately once per quarter.
(C) If every sample at a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(B) of this section is at or below the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for 2 years (
i.e.,
8 consecutive quarterly samples), twelve 14-day sampling periods can be skipped for that monitoring site following each period of sampling,
i.e.,
sampling will occur twice a year.
(D) If every sample at a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C) of this section is at or below the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for 2 years (
i.e.,
4 consecutive semiannual samples), only one sample per year is required for that monitoring site. For yearly sampling, samples shall occur at least 10 months but no more than 14 months apart.
(E) If at any time a sample for a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section returns a result that is above the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the sampling site must return to the original sampling requirements of contiguous 14-day sampling periods with no skip periods for one quarter (six 14-day sampling periods). If every sample collected during this quarter is at or below the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the owner or operator may revert back to the reduced monitoring schedule applicable for that monitoring site prior to the sample reading exceeding the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If any sample collected during this quarter is above the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, that monitoring site must return to the original sampling requirements of contiguous 14-day sampling periods with no skip periods for a minimum of two years. The burden reduction requirements can be used again for that monitoring site once the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(A) of this section are met again,
i.e.,
after 52 contiguous 14-day samples with no results above the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3) To use the alternative sampling frequency outlined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an individual monitor must consistently achieve results for benzene at or below 0.7
m
g/m
3
.
(b) The owner or operator shall collect and record meteorological data according to the applicable requirements
in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) If a near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section and/or if an alternative test method is used that provides time-resolved measurements, the owner or operator must use an on-site meteorological station in accordance with section 8.3 of Method 325A in appendix A to this part. Collect and record hourly average meteorological data, including temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and wind direction, and calculate daily unit vector wind direction and daily sigma theta.
(2) For cases other than those specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall collect and record sampling period average temperature and barometric pressure using either an on-site meteorological station in accordance with section 8.3 of Method 325A in appendix A to this part or, alternatively, using data from a National Weather Service (NWS) meteorological station provided the NWS meteorological station is within 40 kilometers (25 miles) of the coke manufacturing facility.
(3) If an on-site meteorological station is used, the owner or operator shall follow the calibration and standardization procedures for meteorological measurements in EPA-454/B-08-002 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
(c) Within 45 days of completion of each sampling period, the owner or operator shall determine whether the results are above or below the action level as follows.
(1) The owner or operator must determine the facility impact on the benzene concentration (Δc) for each sampling period according to either paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) Except when near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine the highest and lowest sample results for benzene concentrations from the sample pool and calculate Δc as the difference in these concentrations. Co-located samples must be averaged together for the purposes of determining the benzene concentration for that sampling location, and, if applicable, for determining Δc. The owner or operator shall adhere to the following procedures when one or more samples for the sampling period are below the method detection limit for benzene:
(A) If the lowest detected value of benzene is below detection, the owner or operator shall use zero as the lowest sample result when calculating Δc.
(B) If all sample results are below the method detection limit, the owner or operator shall use the method detection limit as the highest sample result and zero as the lowest sample result when calculating Δc.
(C) In the case of co-located samples, if one sample is above the method detection limit while the other sample is below the method detection limit, the owner or operator must use the method detection limit as the result for the sample that is below the method detection limit for purposes of averaging the results to determine the concentration at a particular sampling location, and, if applicable, for determining Δc.
(ii) When near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the owner or operator must determine Δc using the calculation protocols outlined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section except as provided in this paragraph (c)(1)(ii), and the additional requirements in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, as well as any additional requirements outlined in the approved site-specific monitoring plan. The Δc for the sampling period is equal to the higher of the values in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) The highest corrected sample result from a sampling location where near-field source correction is used during the sampling period.
(B) The difference in concentration between the highest sample result that was not corrected for a near-field source during the sampling period and the lowest sample result for the sampling period.
(2) The owner or operator must calculate the annual average Δc based on the average of the 26 most recent 14-day sampling periods. The owner or operator must update this annual average value after receiving the results of each subsequent 14-day sampling period.
(3) The action level for benzene is 7
m
g/m
3
on an annual average basis. If the annual average Δc value for benzene is greater than 7
m
g/m
3
, the concentration is above the action level, and the owner or operator must conduct a root cause analysis and corrective action in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) Once the action level in paragraph (c)(3) of this section has been exceeded, the owner or operator must take the following actions to bring the annual average Δc back below the action level.
(1) Within 5 days of updating the annual average value as required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and determining that the action level in paragraph (c)(3) of this section has been exceeded (
i.e.,
in no case longer than 50 days after completion of the sampling period), the owner or operator must initiate a root cause analysis to determine appropriate corrective action. A root cause analysis is an assessment conducted through a process of investigation to determine the primary underlying cause and all other contributing causes to an exceedance of the action level set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(i) Root cause analysis may include, but is not limited to:
(A) Leak inspection using Method 21 in appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, optical gas imaging, or handheld monitors.
(B) Visual inspection to determine the cause of the high benzene emissions.
(C) Employing progressively more frequent sampling, analysis and meteorology (
e.g.,
using shorter sampling periods for Methods 325A and 325B in appendix A to this part, or using active sampling techniques, like those utilized as part of a site-specific monitoring plan).
(D) Operator knowledge of process changes (
e.g.,
a malfunction or release event).
(ii) If the root cause cannot be identified using the type of techniques described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the owner or operator must employ more frequent sampling and analysis to determine the root cause of the exceedance.
(A) The owner or operator may first employ additional monitoring points and shorter sampling periods for Methods 325A and 325B in appendix A to this part for benzene to determine the root cause of the exceedance.
(B) If the owner or operator has not determined the root cause of the exceedance within 30 days of determining that the action level has been exceeded, the owner or operator must employ the appropriate real-time sampling techniques (
e.g.,
mobile gas chromatographs, optical spectroscopy instruments, sensors) to locate the cause of the exceedance. If the root cause is not identified after 48 hours, either the real-time monitor must be relocated or an additional real-time monitor must be added. Relocation or addition of extra real-time monitors must continue after each 48-hour period of nonidentification until the owner or operator can identify the root cause of the exceedance.
(2) If either the underlying primary or other contributing causes of the exceedance are deemed to be under the control of the owner or operator and subject to a regulation codified in 40 CFR part 63, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the owner or operator must take appropriate corrective action as expeditiously as possible to bring annual average fenceline concentrations back below the action level set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and to prevent future exceedances from the same underlying cause(s).
(3) If the underlying primary or other contributing cause of the exceedance is under the control of the owner or operator but not subject to a regulation codified in 40 CFR part 63, as evidenced through the root cause analysis in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and supported by appropriate real-time sampling techniques consistent with paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, the owner or operator is not required to take corrective action under this subpart at any portion of the facility not subject to a regulation codified in 40 CFR part 63. However, the owner or operator must add additional monitoring locations in accordance with section 8.2.1.3 of EPA Method 325A in appendix A to this part or update their site-specific monitoring plan to add additional
real-time monitors to account and correct for this near-field source of emissions not subject to a regulation codified in 40 CFR part 63 within 60 days of determining the underlying cause.
(4) The root cause analysis must be completed and initial corrective actions, if applicable, taken no later than 45 days after determining there is an exceedance of an action level.
(5) Except as noted in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, until the annual average Δc is below the action level again, following the completion of the initial corrective action, the owner or operator must conduct a new root cause analysis according to this paragraph (d), and if required, submit a corrective action plan under paragraph (e) of this section following any sampling period for which the Δc for the sampling period is greater than the action level in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(6) This paragraph applies when an owner or operator is required under paragraph (d)(3) of this section to update the site-specific monitoring plan to account for an additional near-field emission source. Until the annual average Δc is below the action level again, following implementation of the approved revision to the site-specific monitoring plan, the owner or operator must conduct a new root cause analysis according to this paragraph (d), and if required, submit a corrective action plan under paragraph (e) of this section following any sampling period for which the Δc for the sampling period is greater than the action level in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(e) An owner or operator must develop a corrective action plan if any of the conditions in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section are met. The corrective action plan must describe the corrective action(s) completed to date, additional measures that the owner or operator proposes to employ to reduce annual average fenceline concentrations below the action level set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and a schedule for completion of these measures. The corrective action plan does not need to be approved by the Administrator. However, if upon review, the Administrator disagrees with the additional measures outlined in the plan, the owner or operator must revise and resubmit the plan within 7 calendar days of receiving comments from the Administrator.
(1) Except as noted in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, if upon completion of the root cause analysis and initial corrective actions required under paragraph (d) of the section, the Δc value for the next sampling period, for which the sampling start time begins after the completion of the initial corrective actions, is greater than the level specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The corrective action plan must include the implementation of real-time sampling techniques to locate the primary and other contributing causes of the exceedance. The owner or operator must submit the corrective action plan to the Administrator within 60 days after receiving the analytical results indicating that the Δc value for the sampling period following the completion of the initial corrective action is greater than the level specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(2) The owner or operator must develop a corrective action plan if complete implementation of all corrective measures identified in the root cause analysis required by paragraph (e) of this section will require more than 45 days. The owner or operator must submit the corrective action plan to the Administrator no later than 60 days following the completion of the root cause analysis required in paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) The owner or operator must develop a corrective action plan if upon completion of the root cause analysis and following implementation of the approved revision to the site-specific monitoring plan required under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the Δc value for the next sampling period, for which the sampling start time begins after implementation of the approved revision to the site-specific monitoring plan, is greater than the level specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The corrective action plan must include the implementation of real-time sampling techniques to locate the primary and other contributing causes of the exceedance. The owner or operator must submit the corrective action plan to the Administrator within 60 days after
receiving the analytical results indicating that the Δc value for the sampling period following the implementation of the approved revision to the site-specific monitoring plan is greater than the level specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(f) An owner or operator may request approval from the Administrator for a site-specific monitoring plan to account for offsite upwind sources or onsite sources not subject to a regulation codified in 40 CFR part 63 according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator must prepare and submit a site-specific monitoring plan and receive approval of the site-specific monitoring plan prior to using the near-field source alternative calculation for determining Δc provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The site-specific monitoring plan shall include, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. The procedures in section 12 of Method 325A in appendix A to this part are not required, but may be used, if applicable, when determining near-field source contributions.
(i) Identification of the near-field source or sources. For onsite sources, specify that the onsite source is not subject to a regulation codified in 40 CFR part 63 and identify any federal regulation or federally enforceable permit condition the source is subject to.
(ii) Identification of the fenceline monitoring locations impacted by the near-field source. If more than one near-field source is present, identify the near-field source or sources that are expected to contribute to the concentration at each monitoring location.
(iii) A description of (including sample calculations illustrating) the planned data reduction; treatment of invalid data and data below detection limits; and calculations to determine the near-field source concentration contribution for each monitoring location.
(iv) A detailed description of the measurement technique, measurement location(s), the standard operating procedures, measurement frequency, recording frequency, measurement detection limit, and data quality indicators to ensure accuracy, precision, and validity of the data. If you are accounting for on-site sources, you must use a real-time sampling technique (
e.g.,
mobile gas chromatographs, optical spectroscopy instruments, sensors).
(v) A detailed description of how data will be handled during periods of calm wind conditions (
i.e.,
less than 2 miles per hour).
(2) When an approved site-specific monitoring plan is used, the owner or operator shall determine Δc for comparison with action level according to paragraph (c) of this section. When determining the sample results for use in the Δc calculation, the concentration for any monitor that has been corrected using an approved site-specific monitoring plan will be corrected according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) For each monitoring location corrected using the site-specific monitoring plan, the corrected fenceline concentration at that monitoring station will be equal to the fenceline concentration measured with Methods 325A and 325B in appendix A to this part minus the near-field source contributing concentration at the measurement location determined using the additional measurements and calculation procedures included in the approved site-specific monitoring plan.
(ii) If the fenceline concentration at the monitoring station is below the method detection limit for Methods 325A and 325B in appendix A to this part, no near-field source contribution can be subtracted from that monitoring station for that sampling period.
(3) The site-specific monitoring plan shall be submitted and approved as described in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The site-specific monitoring plan must be submitted to the Administrator for approval.
(ii) The site-specific monitoring plan shall also be submitted to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, U.S. EPA Mailroom (D243-02), Attention: Metals and Inorganic Chemicals Group, 109
T.W. Alexander Drive, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Electronic copies in lieu of hard copies also may be submitted to
fencelineplan@epa.gov.
(iii) The Administrator shall approve or disapprove the plan in 120 days. The plan shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves the plan in writing or fails to disapprove the plan in writing. The 120-day period shall begin when the Administrator confirms receipt of a complete site-specific monitoring plan.
(iv) If the Administrator finds any deficiencies in the site-specific monitoring plan and disapproves the plan in writing, the owner or operator may revise and resubmit the site-specific monitoring plan following the requirements in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. The 120-day period starts over with the resubmission of the revised monitoring plan. The Administrator may indicate in writing that a submitted plan is incomplete and specify the information necessary for completeness.
(4) The approval by the Administrator of a site-specific monitoring plan will be based on the completeness, accuracy and reasonableness of the request for a site-specific monitoring plan. Factors that the Administrator will consider in reviewing the request for a site-specific monitoring plan include, but are not limited to, those described in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) The identification of the near-field source or sources and evidence of how the sources impact the fenceline concentration.
(ii) The location(s) selected for additional monitoring to determine the near-field source concentration contribution.
(iii) The identification of the fenceline monitoring locations impacted by the near-field source or sources.
(iv) The appropriateness of the planned data reduction and calculations to determine the near-field source concentration contribution for each monitoring location, including the handling of invalid data, data below the detection limit, and data during calm periods.
(v) The adequacy of the description of and the rationale for the measurement technique, measurement location(s), the standard operating procedure, the measurement and recording frequency, measurement detection limit, and data quality indicators proposed to ensure accuracy, precision, and validity of the data.
(g) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.311.
(h) As outlined in § 63.7(f), the owner or operator may submit a request for an alternative test method. At a minimum, the request must follow the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) The alternative method may be used in lieu of all samplers or a partial number of the passive samplers required in Method 325A in appendix A to this part.
(2) The alternative method must be validated according to Method 301 in appendix A of this part or contain performance-based procedures and indicators to ensure self-validation.
(3) The method detection limit must nominally be at least one-third of the action level. The alternate test method must describe the procedures used to provide field verification of the detection limit in the sample matrix being measured.
(4) If the alternative test method will be used to replace some or all passive samplers required under paragraph (a) of this section, the spatial coverage must be equal to or better than the spatial coverage provided in Method 325A in appendix A to this part.
(i) For path average concentration open-path instruments, the physical path length of the measurement shall be no more than a passive sample footprint (the spacing that would be provided by the sorbent traps when following Method 325A). For example, if Method 325A requires spacing monitors A and B 610 meters (2000 feet) apart, then the physical path length limit for the measurement at that portion of the fenceline shall be no more than 610 meters (2000 feet).
(ii) For range resolved open-path instrument or approach, the instrument or approach must be able to resolve an
average concentration over each passive sampler footprint within the path length of the instrument.
(iii) The extra samplers required in sections 8.2.1.3 of Method 325A may be omitted when they fall within the path length of an open-path instrument.
(5) At a minimum, non-integrating alternative test methods must provide a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.
(6) For alternative test methods capable of real time measurements (less than a 5-minute sampling and analysis cycle), the alternative test method may allow for elimination of data points corresponding to outside emission sources for purpose of calculation of the high point for the two-week average. The alternative test method approach must have wind speed, direction and stability class of the same time resolution and within the footprint of the instrument.
(7) For purposes of averaging data points to determine the Δc for the 14-day average high sample result, all results measured under the method detection limit must use the method detection limit. For purposes of averaging data points for the 14-day average low sample result, all results measured under the method detection limit must use zero.
[89 FR 55738, July 5, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. L, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart L of Part 63—Operating Coke Oven Batteries as of April 1, 1992
No.
Plant
Battery
1
ABC Coke, Tarrant, AL
A
5
6
2
Acme Steel, Chicago, IL
1
2
3
Armco, Inc., Middletown, OH
1
2
3
4
Armco, Inc., Ashland, KY
3
4
5
Bethlehem Steel, Bethlehem, PA
A
2
3
6
Bethlehem Steel, Burns Harbor, IN
1
2
7
Bethlehem Steel, Lackawanna, NY
7
8
8
Citizens Gas, Indianapolis, IN
E
H
1
9
Empire Coke, Holt, AL
1
2
10
Erie Coke, Erie, PA
A
B
11
Geneva Steel, Provo, UT
1
2
3
4
12
Gulf States Steel, Gadsden, AL
2
3
13
Inland Steel, East Chicago, IN
6
7
9
10
11
14
Jewell Coal and Coke, Vansant, VA
2
3A
3B
3C
15
Koppers, Woodward, AL
1
2A
2B
4A
4B
5
16
LTV Steel, Cleveland, OH
6
7
17
LTV Steel, Pittsburgh, PA
P1
P2
P3N
P3S
P4
18
LTV Steel, Chicago, IL
2
19
LTV Steel, Warren, OH
4
20
National Steel, Ecorse, MI
5
21
National Steel, Granite City, IL
A
B
22
New Boston Coke, Portsmouth, OH
1
23
Sharon Steel, Monessen, PA
1B
2
24
Shenango, Pittsburgh, PA
1
4
25
Sloss Industries, Birmingham, AL
3
4
5
26
Toledo Coke, Toledo, OH
C
27
Tonawanda Coke, Buffalo, NY
1
28
USX, Clairton, PA
1
2
3
7
8
9
13
14
15
19
20
B
29
USX, Gary, IN
2
3
5
7
30
Wheeling-Pittsburgh, E. Steubenville, WV
1
2
3
8
[58 FR 57911, Oct. 27, 1993; 59 FR 1992, Jan. 13, 1994]

# Subpart M—National Perchloroethylene Air Emission Standards for Dry Cleaning Facilities

# Source:
58 FR 49376, Sept. 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.320
Applicability.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to the owner or operator of each dry cleaning facility that uses perchloroethylene.
(b) The compliance date for a new dry cleaning system depends on the date that construction or reconstruction commences.
(1) Each dry cleaning system that commences construction or reconstruction on or after December 9, 1991 and before December 21, 2005, shall be in compliance with the provisions of this subpart except § 63.322(o) beginning on September 22, 1993 or immediately upon startup, whichever is later, except for dry cleaning systems complying with section 112(i)(2) of the Clean Air Act; and shall be in compliance with the provisions of § 63.322(o) beginning on July 28, 2008, except as provided by § 63.6(b)(4), as applicable.
(2)(i) Each dry cleaning system that commences construction or reconstruction on or after December 21, 2005 shall be in compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except § 63.322(o), immediately upon startup; and shall be in compliance with the provisions of § 63.322(o) beginning on July 27, 2006 or immediately upon startup, whichever is later.
(ii) Each dry cleaning system that commences construction or reconstruction on or after December 21, 2005, but before July 13, 2006, and is located in a building with a residence, shall be in compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except § 63.322(o), immediately upon startup; shall be in compliance with the provisions of § 63.322(o)(5)(ii) beginning on July 27, 2006; and shall be in compliance with the provisions of § 63.322(o)(5)(i) beginning on July 27, 2009.
(3) Each dry cleaning system that commences construction or reconstruction on or after July 27, 2006, shall be in compliance with the provisions of this subpart, including § 63.322(o), immediately upon startup.
(c) Each dry cleaning system that commenced construction or reconstruction before December 9, 1991, and each new transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment that commenced construction or reconstruction on or after December 9, 1991 and before September 22, 1993, shall comply with §§ 63.322(c), (d), (i), (j), (k), (l), and (m); 63.323(d); and 63.324(a), (b), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), and (e) beginning on December 20, 1993, and shall comply with other provisions of this subpart except § 63.322(o) by September 23, 1996; and shall comply with § 63.322(o) by July 28, 2008.
(d) Each existing dry-to-dry machine and its ancillary equipment located in a dry cleaning facility that includes only dry-to-dry machines, and each existing transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment, and each new transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment installed between December 9, 1991, and September 22, 1993, as well as each existing dry-to-dry machine and its ancillary equipment, located in a dry cleaning facility that includes both transfer machine system(s) and dry-to-dry machine(s) is exempt from §§ 63.322, 63.323, and 63.324, except §§ 63.322(c), (d), (i), (j), (k), (l), (m), (o)(1), (o)(3), (o)(4) and (o)(5)(i); 63.323(d); and 63.324(a), (b), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), and (e) if the total PCE consumption of the dry cleaning facility is less than 530 liters (140 gallons) per year. Consumption is determined according to § 63.323(d).
(e) Each existing transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment, and each new transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment installed between December 9, 1991, and September 22, 1993, located in a dry cleaning facility that includes only transfer machine system(s), is exempt from §§ 63.322, 63.323, and 63.324, except §§ 63.322(c), (d), (i), (j), (k), (l), (m), (o)(1), (o)(3) and (o)(4); 63.323(d); and 63.324(a), (b), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), and (e) if the PCE consumption of the dry cleaning facility is less than 760 liters (200 gallons) per year. Consumption is determined according to § 63.323(d).
(f) If the total yearly perchloroethylene consumption of a dry cleaning facility determined according to § 63.323(d) is initially less than the amounts specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, but later exceeds those amounts, the existing dry cleaning system(s) and new transfer machine system(s) and its (their) ancillary equipment installed between December 9, 1991 and September 22, 1993 in the dry cleaning facility must comply with § 63.322, § 63.323, and § 63.324 by 180 calendar days from the date that the facility determines it has exceeded the amounts specified, or by September 23, 1996, whichever is later.
(g) A dry cleaning facility is a major source if the facility emits or has the potential to emit more than 9.1 megagrams per year (10 tons per year) of perchloroethylene to the atmosphere. In lieu of measuring a facility's potential to emit perchloroethylene emissions or determining a facility's potential to emit perchloroethylene emissions, a dry cleaning facility is a major source if:
(1) It includes only dry-to-dry machine(s) and has a total yearly perchloroethylene consumption greater than 8,000 liters (2,100 gallons) as determined according to § 63.323(d); or
(2) It includes only transfer machine system(s) or both dry-to-dry machine(s) and transfer machine system(s) and has a total yearly perchloroethylene consumption greater than 6,800 liters (1,800 gallons) as determined according to § 63.323(d).
(h) A dry cleaning facility is an area source if it does not meet the conditions of paragraph (g) of this section.
(i) If the total yearly perchloroethylene consumption of a dry cleaning facility determined according to § 63.323(d) is initially less than the amounts specified in paragraph (g) of this section, but then exceeds those amounts, the dry cleaning facility becomes a major source and all dry cleaning systems located at that dry cleaning facility must comply with the appropriate requirements for major sources under §§ 63.322, 63.323, and 63.324 by 180 calendar days from the date that the facility determines it has exceeded the amount specified, or by September 23, 1996, whichever is later.
(j) All coin-operated dry cleaning machines are exempt from the requirements of this subpart.
(k) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
[58 FR 49376, Sept. 22, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 66289, Dec. 20, 1993; 61 FR 27788, June 3, 1996; 61 FR 49265, Sept. 19, 1996; 64 FR 69643, Dec. 14, 1999; 70 FR 75345, Dec. 19, 2005; 71 FR 42743, July 27, 2006; 73 FR 39874, July 11, 2008]
§ 63.321
Definitions.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or his or her authorized representative (e.g., a State that has been delegated the authority to implement the provisions of this part).
Ancillary equipment
means the equipment used with a dry cleaning machine in a dry cleaning system including, but not limited to, emission control devices, pumps, filters, muck cookers, stills, solvent tanks, solvent containers, water separators, exhaust dampers, diverter valves, interconnecting piping, hoses, and ducts.
Area source
means any perchloroethylene dry cleaning facility that meets the conditions of § 63.320(h).
Articles
mean clothing, garments, textiles, fabrics, leather goods, and the like, that are dry cleaned.
Biweekly
means any 14-day period of time.
Carbon adsorber
means a bed of activated carbon into which an air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream is routed and which adsorbs the perchloroethylene on the carbon.
Coin-operated dry cleaning machine
means a dry cleaning machine that is operated by the customer (that is, the customer places articles into the machine, turns the machine on, and removes articles from the machine).
Colorimetric detector tube
means a glass tube (sealed prior to use), containing material impregnated with a chemical that is sensitive to perchloroethylene and is designed to measure the concentration of perchloroethylene in air.
Construction,
for purposes of this subpart, means the fabrication (onsite), erection, or installation of a dry cleaning system subject to this subpart.
Desorption
means regeneration of a carbon adsorber by removal of the perchloroethylene adsorbed on the carbon.
Diverter valve
means a flow control device that prevents room air from passing through a refrigerated condenser when the door of the dry cleaning machine is open.
Dry cleaning
means the process of cleaning articles using perchloroethylene.
Dry cleaning cycle
means the washing and drying of articles in a dry-to-dry machine or transfer machine system.
Dry cleaning facility
means an establishment with one or more dry cleaning systems.
Dry cleaning machine
means a dry-to-dry machine or each machine of a transfer machine system.
Dry cleaning machine drum
means the perforated container inside the dry cleaning machine that holds the articles during dry cleaning.
Dry cleaning system
means a dry-to-dry machine and its ancillary equipment or a transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment.
Dryer
means a machine used to remove perchloroethylene from articles by tumbling them in a heated air stream (see reclaimer).
Dry-to-dry machine
means a one-machine dry cleaning operation in which washing and drying are performed in the same machine.
Exhaust damper
means a flow control device that prevents the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream from exiting the dry cleaning machine into a carbon adsorber before room air is drawn into the dry cleaning machine.
Existing
means commenced construction or reconstruction before December 9, 1991.
Filter
means a porous device through which PCE is passed to remove contaminants in suspension. Examples include, but are not limited to, lint filter, button trap, cartridge filter, tubular filter, regenerative filter, prefilter, polishing filter, and spin disc filter.
Halogenated hydrocarbon detector
means a portable device capable of detecting vapor concentrations of PCE of 25 parts per million by volume and indicating a concentration of 25 parts per million by volume or greater by emitting an audible or visual signal that varies as the concentration changes.
Heating coil
means the device used to heat the air stream circulated from the dry cleaning machine drum, after perchloroethylene has been condensed from the air stream and before the stream reenters the dry cleaning machine drum.
Major source
means any dry cleaning facility that meets the conditions of § 63.320(g).
Muck cooker
means a device for heating perchloroethylene-laden waste material to volatilize and recover perchloroethylene.
New
means commenced construction or reconstruction on or after December 9, 1991.
PCE gas analyzer
means a flame ionization detector, photoionization detector, or infrared analyzer capable of detecting vapor concentrations of PCE of 25 parts per million by volume.
Perceptible leaks
mean any perchloroethylene vapor or liquid leaks that are obvious from:
(1) The odor of perchloroethylene;
(2) Visual observation, such as pools or droplets of liquid; or
(3) The detection of gas flow by passing the fingers over the surface of equipment.
Perchloroethylene consumption
means the total volume of perchloroethylene purchased based upon purchase receipts or other reliable measures.
Reclaimer
means a machine used to remove perchloroethylene from articles by tumbling them in a heated air stream (see dryer).
Reconstruction,
for purposes of this subpart, means replacement of a washer, dryer, or reclaimer; or replacement of any components of a dry cleaning system to such an extent that the fixed
capital cost of the new components exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost that would be required to construct a comparable new source.
Refrigerated condenser
means a vapor recovery system into which an air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream is routed and the perchloroethylene is condensed by cooling the gas-vapor stream.
Refrigerated condenser coil
means the coil containing the chilled liquid used to cool and condense the perchloroethylene.
Residence
means any dwelling or housing in which people reside excluding short-term housing that is occupied by the same person for a period of less than 180 days (such as a hotel room).
Responsible official
means one of the following:
(1) For a corporation: A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or a duly authorized representative of such person if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of one or more dry cleaning facilities;
(2) For a partnership: A general partner;
(3) For a sole proprietorship: The owner; or
(4) For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency: Either a principal executive officer or ranking official.
Room enclosure
means a stationary structure that encloses a transfer machine system, and is vented to a carbon adsorber or an equivalent control device during operation of the transfer machine system.
Source,
for purposes of this subpart, means each dry cleaning system.
Still
means any device used to volatilize and recover perchloroethylene from contaminated perchloroethylene.
Temperature sensor
means a thermometer or thermocouple used to measure temperature.
Transfer machine system
means a multiple-machine dry cleaning operation in which washing and drying are performed in different machines. Examples include, but are not limited to:
(1) A washer and dryer(s);
(2) A washer and reclaimer(s); or
(3) A dry-to-dry machine and reclaimer(s).
Vapor barrier enclosure
means a room that encloses a dry cleaning system and is constructed of vapor barrier material that is impermeable to perchloroethylene. The enclosure shall be equipped with a ventilation system that exhausts outside the building and is completely separate from the ventilation system for any other area of the building. The exhaust system shall be designed and operated to maintain negative pressure and a ventilation rate of at least one air change per five minutes. The vapor barrier enclosure shall be constructed of glass, plexiglass, polyvinyl chloride, PVC sheet 22 mil thick (0.022 in.), sheet metal, metal foil face composite board, or other materials that are impermeable to perchloroethylene vapor. The enclosure shall be constructed so that all joints and seams are sealed except for inlet make-up air and exhaust openings and the entry door.
Vapor leak
means a PCE vapor concentration exceeding 25 parts per million by volume (50 parts per million by volume as methane) as indicated by a halogenated hydrocarbon detector or PCE gas analyzer.
Washer
means a machine used to clean articles by immersing them in perchloroethylene. This includes a dry-to-dry machine when used with a reclaimer.
Water separator
means any device used to recover perchloroethylene from a water-perchloroethylene mixture.
Year
or
Yearly
means any consecutive 12-month period of time.
[58 FR 49376, Sept. 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 42744, July 27, 2006]
§ 63.322
Standards.
(a) The owner or operator of each existing dry cleaning system and of each new transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment installed between December 9, 1991 and September 22, 1993 shall comply with either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section and shall comply with paragraph (a)(3) of this section if applicable.
(1) Route the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream contained within
each dry cleaning machine through a refrigerated condenser or an equivalent control device.
(2) Route the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream contained within each dry cleaning machine through a carbon adsorber installed on the dry cleaning machine prior to September 22, 1993.
(3) Contain the dry cleaning machine inside a room enclosure if the dry cleaning machine is a transfer machine system located at a major source. Each room enclosure shall be:
(i) Constructed of materials impermeable to perchloroethylene; and
(ii) Designed and operated to maintain a negative pressure at each opening at all times that the machine is operating.
(b) The owner or operator of each new dry-to-dry machine and its ancillary equipment and of each new transfer machine system and its ancillary equipment installed after September 22, 1993:
(1) Shall route the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream contained within each dry cleaning machine through a refrigerated condenser or an equivalent control device;
(2) Shall eliminate any emission of perchloroethylene during the transfer of articles between the washer and dryer(s); and
(3) Shall pass the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream from inside the dry cleaning machine drum through a carbon adsorber or equivalent control device immediately before or as the door of the dry cleaning machine is opened if the dry cleaning machine is located at a major source.
(c) The owner or operator shall close the door of each dry cleaning machine immediately after transferring articles to or from the machine, and shall keep the door closed at all other times.
(d) The owner or operator of each dry cleaning system shall operate and maintain the system according to the manufacturers' specifications and recommendations.
(e) Each refrigerated condenser used for the purposes of complying with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and installed on a dry-to-dry machine, dryer, or reclaimer:
(1) Shall be operated to not vent or release the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream contained within the dry cleaning machine to the atmosphere while the dry cleaning machine drum is rotating;
(2) Shall be monitored according to § 63.323(a)(1); and
(3) Shall prevent air drawn into the dry cleaning machine when the door of the machine is open from passing through the refrigerated condenser.
(f) Each refrigerated condenser used for the purpose of complying with paragraph (a) of this section and installed on a washer:
(1) Shall be operated to not vent the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor contained within the washer to the atmosphere until the washer door is opened;
(2) Shall be monitored according to § 63.323(a)(2); and
(3) Shall not use the same refrigerated condenser coil for the washer that is used by a dry-to-dry machine, dryer, or reclaimer.
(g) Each carbon adsorber used for the purposes of complying with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) Shall not be bypassed to vent or release any air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream to the atmosphere at any time; and
(2) Shall be monitored according to the applicable requirements in § 63.323 (b) or (c).
(h) Each room enclosure used for the purposes of complying with paragraph (a)(3) of this section:
(1) Shall be operated to vent all air from the room enclosure through a carbon adsorber or an equivalent control device; and
(2) Shall be equipped with a carbon adsorber that is not the same carbon adsorber used to comply with paragraph (a)(2) or (b)(3) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall drain all cartridge filters in their housing, or other sealed container, for a minimum of 24 hours, or shall treat such filters in an equivalent manner, before removal from the dry cleaning facility.
(j) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall store all PCE and wastes that contain PCE in solvent tanks or solvent containers with no perceptible leaks. The exception to this
requirement is that containers for separator water may be uncovered, as necessary, for proper operation of the machine and still.
(k) The owner or operator of a dry cleaning system shall inspect the system weekly for perceptible leaks while the dry cleaning system is operating. Inspection with a halogenated hydrocarbon detector or PCE gas analyzer also fulfills the requirement for inspection for perceptible leaks. The following components shall be inspected:
(1) Hose and pipe connections, fittings, couplings, and valves;
(2) Door gaskets and seatings;
(3) Filter gaskets and seatings;
(4) Pumps;
(5) Solvent tanks and containers;
(6) Water separators;
(7) Muck cookers;
(8) Stills;
(9) Exhaust dampers;
(10) Diverter valves; and
(11) All Filter housings.
(l) The owner or operator of a dry cleaning facility with a total facility consumption below the applicable consumption levels of § 63.320(d) or (e) shall inspect the components listed in paragraph (k) of this section biweekly for perceptible leaks while the dry cleaning system is operating.
(m) The owner or operator of a dry cleaning system shall repair all leaks detected under paragraph (k) or (o)(1) of this section within 24 hours. If repair parts must be ordered, either a written or verbal order for those parts shall be initiated within 2 working days of detecting such a leak. Such repair parts shall be installed within 5 working days after receipt.
(n) If parameter values monitored under paragraphs (e), (f), or (g) of this section do not meet the values specified in § 63.323(a), (b), or (c), adjustments or repairs shall be made to the dry cleaning system or control device to meet those values. If repair parts must be ordered, either a written or verbal order for such parts shall be initiated within 2 working days of detecting such a parameter value. Such repair parts shall be installed within 5 working days after receipt.
(o) Additional requirements:
(1) The owner or operator of a dry cleaning system shall inspect the components listed in paragraph (k) of this section for vapor leaks monthly while the component is in operation.
(i) Area sources shall conduct the inspections using a halogenated hydrocarbon detector or PCE gas analyzer that is operated according to the manufacturer's instructions. The operator shall place the probe inlet at the surface of each component interface where leakage could occur and move it slowly along the interface periphery.
(ii) Major sources shall conduct the inspections using a PCE gas analyzer operated according to EPA Method 21.
(iii) Any inspection conducted according to this paragraph shall satisfy the requirements to conduct an inspection for perceptible leaks under § 63.322(k) or (l) of this subpart.
(2) The owner or operator of each dry cleaning system installed after December 21, 2005, at an area source shall route the air-PCE gas-vapor stream contained within each dry cleaning machine through a refrigerated condenser and pass the air-PCE gas-vapor stream from inside the dry cleaning machine drum through a non-vented carbon adsorber or equivalent control device immediately before the door of the dry cleaning machine is opened. The carbon adsorber must be desorbed in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
(3) The owner or operator of any dry cleaning system shall eliminate any emission of PCE during the transfer of articles between the washer and the dryer(s) or reclaimer(s).
(4) The owner or operator shall eliminate any emission of PCE from any dry cleaning system that is installed (including relocation of a used machine) after December 21, 2005, and that is located in a building with a residence.
(5)(i) After December 21, 2020, the owner or operator shall eliminate any emission of PCE from any dry cleaning system that is located in a building with a residence.
(ii) Sources demonstrating compliance under Section 63.320(b)(2)(ii) shall comply with paragraph (o)(5)(ii)(A) through (C), in addition to the other applicable requirements of this section:
(A) Operate the dry cleaning system inside a vapor barrier enclosure. The exhaust system for the enclosure shall
be operated at all times that the dry cleaning system is in operation and during maintenance. The entry door to the enclosure may be open only when a person is entering or exiting the enclosure.
(B) Route the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream contained within each dry cleaning machine through a refrigerated condenser and pass the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream from inside the dry cleaning drum through a carbon adsorber or equivalent control device immediately before the door of the dry cleaning machine is opened. The carbon adsorber must be desorbed in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
(C) Inspect the machine components listed in paragraph (k) of this section for vapor leaks weekly while the component is in operation. These inspections shall be conducted using a halogenated hydrocarbon detector or PCE gas analyzer that is operated according to the manufacturer's instructions. The operator shall place the probe inlet at the surface of each component interface where leakage could occur and move it slowly along the interface periphery.
[58 FR 49376, Sept. 22, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 49265, Sept. 19, 1996; 71 FR 42744, July 27, 2006]
§ 63.323
Test methods and monitoring.
(a) When a refrigerated condenser is used to comply with § 63.322(a)(1) or (b)(1):
(1) The owner or operator shall monitor on a weekly basis the parameters in either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) The refrigeration system high pressure and low pressure during the drying phase to determine if they are in the range specified in the manufacturer's operating instructions.
(ii) The temperature of the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream on the outlet side of the refrigerated condenser on a dry-to-dry machine, dryer, or reclaimer with a temperature sensor to determine if it is equal to or less than 7.2 °C (45 °F) before the end of the cool-down or drying cycle while the gas-vapor stream is flowing through the condenser. The temperature sensor shall be used according to the manufacturer's instructions and shall be designed to measure a temperature of 7.2 °C (45 °F) to an accuracy of ±1.1 °C (±2 °F).
(2) The owner or operator shall calculate the difference between the temperature of the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream entering the refrigerated condenser on a washer and the temperature of the air-perchloroethylene gas-vapor stream exiting the refrigerated condenser on the washer weekly to determine that the difference is greater than or equal to 11.1 °C (20 °F).
(i) Measurements of the inlet and outlet streams shall be made with a temperature sensor. Each temperature sensor shall be used according to the manufacturer's instructions, and designed to measure at least a temperature range from 0 °C (32 °F) to 48.9 °C (120 °F) to an accuracy of ±1.1 °C (±2 °F).
(ii) The difference between the inlet and outlet temperatures shall be calculated weekly from the measured values.
(b) When a carbon adsorber is used to comply with § 63.322(a)(2) or exhaust is passed through a carbon adsorber immediately upon machine door opening to comply with § 63.322(b)(3), the owner or operator shall measure the concentration of PCE in the exhaust of the carbon adsorber weekly with a colorimetric detector tube or PCE gas analyzer. The measurement shall be taken while the dry cleaning machine is venting to that carbon adsorber at the end of the last dry cleaning cycle prior to desorption of that carbon adsorber or removal of the activated carbon to determine that the PCE concentration in the exhaust is equal to or less than 100 parts per million by volume. The owner or operator shall:
(1) Use a colorimetric detector tube or PCE gas analyzer designed to measure a concentration of 100 parts per million by volume of PCE in air to an accuracy of ±25 parts per million by volume; and
(2) Use the colorimetric detector tube or PCE gas analyzer according to the manufacturer's instructions; and
(3) Provide a sampling port for monitoring within the exhaust outlet of the carbon adsorber that is easily accessible and located at least 8 stack or
duct diameters downstream from any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, contraction, or outlet; downstream from no other inlet; and 2 stack or duct diameters upstream from any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, contraction, inlet, or outlet.
(c) If the air-PCE gas vapor stream is passed through a carbon adsorber prior to machine door opening to comply with § 63.322(b)(3), the owner or operator of an affected facility shall measure the concentration of PCE in the dry cleaning machine drum at the end of the dry cleaning cycle weekly with a colorimetric detector tube or PCE gas analyzer to determine that the PCE concentration is equal to or less than 300 parts per million by volume. The owner or operator shall:
(1) Use a colorimetric detector tube or PCE gas analyzer designed to measure a concentration of 300 parts per million by volume of PCE in air to an accuracy of ±75 parts per million by volume; and
(2) Use the colorimetric detector tube or PCE gas analyzer according to the manufacturer's instructions; and
(3) Conduct the weekly monitoring by inserting the colorimetric detector or PCE gas analyzer tube into the open space above the articles at the rear of the dry cleaning machine drum immediately upon opening the dry cleaning machine door.
(d) When calculating yearly perchloroethylene consumption for the purpose of demonstrating applicability according to § 63.320, the owner or operator shall perform the following calculation on the first day of every month:
(1) Sum the volume of all perchloroethylene purchases made in each of the previous 12 months, as recorded in the log described in § 63.324(d)(1).
(2) If no perchloroethylene purchases were made in a given month, then the perchloroethylene consumption for that month is zero gallons.
(3) The total sum calculated in paragraph (d) of this section is the yearly perchloroethylene consumption at the facility.
[58 FR 49376, Sept. 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 42745, July 27, 2006; 71 FR 55280, Sept. 21, 2006; 73 FR 39874, July 11, 2008]
§ 63.324
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Each owner or operator of a dry cleaning facility shall notify the Administrator or delegated State authority in writing within 270 calendar days after September 23, 1993 (i.e., June 18, 1994) and provide the following information:
(1) The name and address of the owner or operator;
(2) The address (that is, physical location) of the dry cleaning facility;
(3) A brief description of the type of each dry cleaning machine at the dry cleaning facility;
(4) Documentation as described in § 63.323(d) of the yearly perchloroethylene consumption at the dry cleaning facility for the previous year to demonstrate applicability according to § 63.320; or an estimation of perchloroethylene consumption for the previous year to estimate applicability with § 63.320; and
(5) A description of the type of control device(s) that will be used to achieve compliance with § 63.322 (a) or (b) and whether the control device(s) is currently in use or will be purchased.
(6) Documentation to demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that each room enclosure used to meet the requirements of § 63.322(a)(3) meets the requirements of § 63.322(a)(3) (i) and (ii).
(b) Each owner or operator of a dry cleaning facility shall submit to the Administrator or delegated State authority by registered mail on or before the 30th day following the compliance dates specified in § 63.320 (b) or (c) or June 18, 1994, whichever is later, a notification of compliance status providing the following information and signed by a responsible official who shall certify its accuracy:
(1) The yearly perchloroethylene solvent consumption limit based upon the yearly solvent consumption calculated according to § 63.323(d);
(2) Whether or not they are in compliance with each applicable requirement of § 63.322; and
(3) All information contained in the statement is accurate and true.
(c) Each owner or operator of an area source dry cleaning facility that exceeds the solvent consumption limit
reported in paragraph (b) of this section shall submit to the Administrator or a delegated State authority by registered mail on or before the dates specified in § 63.320 (f) or (i), a notification of compliance status providing the following information and signed by a responsible official who shall certify its accuracy:
(1) The new yearly perchloroethylene solvent consumption limit based upon the yearly solvent consumption calculated according to § 63.323(d);
(2) Whether or not they are in compliance with each applicable requirement of § 63.322; and
(3) All information contained in the statement is accurate and true.
(d) Each owner or operator of a dry cleaning facility shall keep receipts of perchloroethylene purchases and a log of the following information and maintain such information on site and show it upon request for a period of 5 years:
(1) The volume of perchloroethylene purchased each month by the dry cleaning facility as recorded from perchloroethylene purchases; if no perchloroethylene is purchased during a given month then the owner or operator would enter zero gallons into the log;
(2) The calculation and result of the yearly perchloroethylene consumption determined on the first day of each month as specified in § 63.323(d);
(3) The dates when the dry cleaning system components are inspected for leaks, as specified in § 63.322(k), (l), or (o)(1), and the name or location of dry cleaning system components where leaks are detected;
(4) The dates of repair and records of written or verbal orders for repair parts to demonstrate compliance with § 63.322(m) and (n);
(5) The date and monitoring results (temperature sensor or pressure gauge) as specified in § 63.323 if a refrigerated condenser is used to comply with § 63.322(a), (b), or (o); and
(6) The date and monitoring results, as specified in § 63.323, if a carbon adsorber is used to comply with § 63.322(a)(2), or (b)(3).
(e) Each owner or operator of a dry cleaning facility shall retain onsite a copy of the design specifications and the operating manuals for each dry cleaning system and each emission control device located at the dry cleaning facility.
(f) Each owner or operator of a dry cleaning facility shall submit to the Administrator or delegated State authority by registered mail on or before July 28, 2008 a notification of compliance status providing the following information and signed by a responsible official who shall certify its accuracy:
(1) The name and address of the owner or operator;
(2) The address (that is, physical location) of the dry cleaning facility;
(3) If they are located in a building with a residence(s), even if the residence is vacant at the time of this notification;
(4) If they are located in a building with no other tenants, leased space, or owner occupants;
(5) Whether they are a major or area source;
(6) The yearly PCE solvent consumption based upon the yearly solvent consumption calculated according to § 63.323(d);
(7) Whether or not they are in compliance with each applicable requirement of § 63.322; and
(8) All information contained in the statement is accurate and true.
(g) Each owner or operator of a dry cleaning facility that reclassifies from a major source to an area source must follow the procedures of § 63.9(j) and (k) to provide notification of the change in status.
[58 FR 49376, Sept. 22, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 66289, Dec. 20, 1993; 71 FR 42745, July 27, 2006; 73 FR 39875, July 11, 2008; 85 FR 73888, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.325
Determination of equivalent emission control technology.
(a) Any person requesting that the use of certain equipment or procedures be considered equivalent to the requirements under § 63.322 shall collect, verify, and submit to the Administrator the following information to show that the alternative achieves equivalent emission reductions:
(1) Diagrams, as appropriate, illustrating the emission control technology, its operation and integration into or function with dry-to-dry machine(s) or transfer machine system(s)
and their ancillary equipment during each portion of the normal dry cleaning cycle;
(2) Information quantifying vented perchloroethylene emissions from the dry-to-dry machine(s) or transfer machine system(s) during each portion of the dry cleaning cycle with and without the use of the candidate emission control technology;
(3) Information on solvent mileage achieved with and without the candidate emission control technology. Solvent mileage is the average weight of articles cleaned per volume of perchloroethylene used. Solvent mileage data must be of continuous duration for at least 1 year under the conditions of a typical dry cleaning operation. This information on solvent mileage must be accompanied by information on the design, configuration, operation, and maintenance of the specific dry cleaning system from which the solvent mileage information was obtained;
(4) Identification of maintenance requirements and parameters to monitor to ensure proper operation and maintenance of the candidate emission control technology;
(5) Explanation of why this information is considered accurate and representative of both the short-term and the long-term performance of the candidate emission control technology on the specific dry cleaning system examined;
(6) Explanation of why this information can or cannot be extrapolated to dry cleaning systems other than the specific system(s) examined; and
(7) Information on the cross-media impacts (to water and solid waste) of the candidate emission control technology and demonstration that the cross-media impacts are less than or equal to the cross-media impacts of a refrigerated condenser.
(b) For the purpose of determining equivalency to control equipment required under § 63.322, the Administrator will evaluate the petition to determine whether equivalent control of perchloroethylene emissions has been adequately demonstrated.
(c) Where the Administrator determines that certain equipment and procedures may be equivalent, the Administrator will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
proposing to consider this equipment or these procedures as equivalent. After notice and opportunity for public hearing, the Administrator will publish the final determination of equivalency in the
Federal Register.
§ 63.326
Implementation and enforcement.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.320 and 63.322(a) through (j). Follow the requirements in § 63.325 to demonstrate that alternative equipment or procedures are equivalent to the requirements of § 63.322.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
[68 FR 37347, June 23, 2003]

# Subpart N—National Emission Standards for Chromium Emissions From Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks

# Source:
60 FR 4963, Jan. 25, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.340
Applicability and designation of sources.
(a) The affected source to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each chromium electroplating or chromium anodizing tank at facilities performing hard chromium electroplating, decorative chromium electroplating, or chromium anodizing.
(b) Owners or operators of affected sources subject to the provisions of this subpart must also comply with the requirements of subpart A of this part, according to the applicability of subpart A of this part to such sources, as identified in Table 1 of this subpart.
(c) Process tanks associated with a chromium electroplating or chromium anodizing process, but in which neither chromium electroplating nor chromium anodizing is taking place, are not subject to the provisions of this subpart. Examples of such tanks include, but are not limited to, rinse tanks, etching tanks, and cleaning tanks. Likewise, tanks that contain a chromium solution, but in which no electrolytic process occurs, are not subject to this subpart. An example of such a tank is a chrome conversion coating tank where no electrical current is applied.
(d) Affected sources in which research and laboratory operations are performed are exempt from the provisions of this subpart when such operations are taking place.
(e) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
[60 FR 4963, Jan. 25, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 27787, June 3, 1996; 64 FR 69643, Dec. 14, 1999; 70 FR 75345, Dec. 19, 2005]
§ 63.341
Definitions and nomenclature.
(a)
Definitions.
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this section. For the purposes of subpart N of this part, if the same term is defined in subpart A of this part and in this section, it shall have the meaning given in this section.
Add-on air pollution control device
means equipment installed in the ventilation system of chromium electroplating and anodizing tanks for the purposes of collecting and containing chromium emissions from the tank(s).
Affirmative defense
means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or a defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Air pollution control technique
means any method, such as an add-on air pollution control device or a chemical fume suppressant, that is used to reduce chromium emissions from chromium electroplating and chromium anodizing tanks.
Base metal
means the metal or metal alloy that comprises the workpiece.
Bath component
means the trade or brand name of each component(s) in trivalent chromium plating baths. For trivalent chromium baths, the bath composition is proprietary in most cases. Therefore, the trade or brand name for each component(s) can be used; however, the chemical name of the wetting agent contained in that component must be identified.
Chemical fume suppressant
means any chemical agent that reduces or suppresses fumes or mists at the surface of an electroplating or anodizing bath; another term for fume suppressant is mist suppressant.
Chromic acid
means the common name for chromium anhydride (CrO
3
).
Chromium anodizing
means the electrolytic process by which an oxide layer is produced on the surface of a
base metal for functional purposes (e.g., corrosion resistance or electrical insulation) using a chromic acid solution. In chromium anodizing, the part to be anodized acts as the anode in the electrical circuit, and the chromic acid solution, with a concentration typically ranging from 50 to 100 grams per liter (g/L), serves as the electrolyte.
Chromium anodizing tank
means the receptacle or container along with the following accompanying internal and external components needed for chromium anodizing: rectifiers fitted with controls to allow for voltage adjustments, heat exchanger equipment, circulation pumps, and air agitation systems.
Chromium electroplating tank
means the receptacle or container along with the following internal and external components needed for chromium electroplating: Rectifiers, anodes, heat exchanger equipment, circulation pumps, and air agitation systems.
Composite mesh-pad system
means an add-on air pollution control device typically consisting of several mesh-pad stages. The purpose of the first stage is to remove large particles. Smaller particles are removed in the second stage, which consists of the composite mesh pad. A final stage may remove any reentrained particles not collected by the composite mesh pad.
Contains hexavalent chromium
means, the substance consists of, or contains 0.1 percent or greater by weight, chromium trioxide, chromium (VI) oxide, chromic acid, or chromic anhydride.
Decorative chromium electroplating
means the process by which a thin layer of chromium (typically 0.003 to 2.5 microns) is electrodeposited on a base metal, plastic, or undercoating to provide a bright surface with wear and tarnish resistance. In this process, the part(s) serves as the cathode in the electrolytic cell and the solution serves as the electrolyte. Typical current density applied during this process ranges from 540 to 2,400 Amperes per square meter (A/m
2
) for total plating times ranging between 0.5 to 5 minutes.
Electroplating or anodizing bath
means the electrolytic solution used as the conducting medium in which the flow of current is accompanied by movement of metal ions for the purposes of electroplating metal out of the solution onto a workpiece or for oxidizing the base material.
Emission limitation
means, for the purposes of this subpart, the concentration of total chromium allowed to be emitted expressed in milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (mg/dscm), or the allowable surface tension expressed in dynes per centimeter (dynes/cm).
Enclosed hard chromium electroplating tank
means a chromium electroplating tank that is equipped with an enclosing hood and ventilated at half the rate or less that of an open surface tank of the same surface area.
Existing affected source
means an affected hard chromium electroplating tank, decorative chromium electroplating tank, or chromium anodizing tank, the construction or reconstruction of which commenced on or before February 8, 2012.
Facility
means the major or area source at which chromium electroplating or chromium anodizing is performed.
Fiber-bed mist eliminator
means an add-on air pollution control device that removes contaminants from a gas stream through the mechanisms of inertial impaction and Brownian diffusion. These devices are typically installed downstream of another control device, which serves to prevent plugging, and consist of one or more fiber beds. Each bed consists of a hollow cylinder formed from two concentric screens; the fiber between the screens may be fabricated from glass, ceramic plastic, or metal.
Foam blanket
means the type of chemical fume suppressant that generates a layer of foam across the surface of a solution when current is applied to that solution.
Fresh water
means water, such as tap water, that has not been previously used in a process operation or, if the water has been recycled from a process operation, it has been treated and meets the effluent guidelines for chromium wastewater.
Hard chromium electroplating
or industrial chromium electroplating means a process by which a thick layer of chromium (typically 1.3 to 760 microns) is electrodeposited on a base material to
provide a surface with functional properties such as wear resistance, a low coefficient of friction, hardness, and corrosion resistance. In this process, the part serves as the cathode in the electrolytic cell and the solution serves as the electrolyte. Hard chromium electroplating process is performed at current densities typically ranging from 1,600 to 6,500 A/m
2
for total plating times ranging from 20 minutes to 36 hours depending upon the desired plate thickness.
Hexavalent chromium
means the form of chromium in a valence state of + 6.
Large, hard chromium electroplating facility
means a facility that performs hard chromium electroplating and has a maximum cumulative potential rectifier capacity greater than or equal to 60 million ampere-hours per year (amp-hr/yr).
Maximum cumulative potential rectifier capacity
means the summation of the total installed rectifier capacity associated with the hard chromium electroplating tanks at a facility, expressed in amperes, multiplied by the maximum potential operating schedule of 8,400 hours per year and 0.7, which assumes that electrodes are energized 70 percent of the total operating time. The maximum potential operating schedule is based on operating 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, 50 weeks per year.
New affected source
means an affected hard chromium electroplating tank, decorative chromium electroplating tank, or chromium anodizing tank, the construction or reconstruction of which commenced after February 8, 2012.
Open surface hard chromium electroplating tank
means a chromium electroplating tank that is ventilated at a rate consistent with good ventilation practices for open tanks.
Operating parameter value
means a minimum or maximum value established for a control device or process parameter which, if achieved by itself or in combination with one or more other operating parameter values, determines that an owner or operator is in continual compliance with the applicable emission limitation or standard.
Packed-bed scrubber
means an add-on air pollution control device consisting of a single or double packed bed that contains packing media on which the chromic acid droplets impinge. The packed-bed section of the scrubber is followed by a mist eliminator to remove any water entrained from the packed-bed section.
Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (PFOS)-based fume suppressant
means a fume suppressant that contains 1 percent or greater PFOS by weight.
Research or laboratory operation
means an operation whose primary purpose is for research and development of new processes and products, that is conducted under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and that is not involved in the manufacture of products for commercial sale in commerce, except in a de minimis manner.
Small, hard chromium electroplating facility
means a facility that performs hard chromium electroplating and has a maximum cumulative potential rectifier capacity less than 60 million amp-hr/yr.
Stalagmometer
means an instrument used to measure the surface tension of a solution by determining the mass of a drop of liquid by weighing a known number of drops or by counting the number of drops obtained from a given volume of liquid.
Surface tension
means the property, due to molecular forces, that exists in the surface film of all liquids and tends to prevent liquid from spreading.
Tank operation
means the time in which current and/or voltage is being applied to a chromium electroplating tank or a chromium anodizing tank.
Tensiometer
means an instrument used to measure the surface tension of a solution by determining the amount of force needed to pull a ring from the liquid surface. The amount of force is proportional to the surface tension.
Trivalent chromium
means the form of chromium in a valence state of + 3.
Trivalent chromium process
means the process used for electrodeposition of a thin layer of chromium onto a base material using a trivalent chromium solution instead of a chromic acid solution.
Wetting agent
means the type of commercially available chemical fume suppressant that materially reduces the surface tension of a liquid.
(b)
Nomenclature.
The nomenclature used in this subpart has the following meaning:
(1) AMR = the allowable mass emission rate from each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation in milligrams per hour (mg/hr).
(2) AMR
sys
= the allowable mass emission rate from affected sources controlled by an add-on air pollution control device controlling emissions from multiple sources in mg/hr.
(3) EL = the applicable emission limitation from § 63.342 in milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (mg/dscm).
(4) IA
total
= the sum of all inlet duct areas from both affected and nonaffected sources in meters squared.
(5) IDA
i
= the total inlet area for all ducts associated with affected sources in meters squared.
(6) IDA
i,a
= the total inlet duct area for all ducts conveying chromic acid from each type of affected source performing the same operation, or each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation in meters squared.
(7) VR = the total of ventilation rates for each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation in dry standard cubic meters per minute (dscm/min).
(8) VR
inlet
= the total ventilation rate from all inlet ducts associated with affected sources in dscm/min.
(9) VR
inlet,a
= the total ventilation rate from all inlet ducts conveying chromic acid from each type of affected source performing the same operation, or each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation in dscm/min.
(10) VR
tot
= the average total ventilation rate for the three test runs as determined at the outlet by means of the Method 306 or 306A testing specified in appendix A of this part in dscm/min.
[60 FR 4963, Jan. 25, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 42894, July 19, 2004; 77 FR 58242, Sept. 19, 2012]
§ 63.342
Standards.
(a)(1) At all times, each owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source subject to the requirements of this subpart, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by this standard have been achieved. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(2) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with these requirements in this section on and after the compliance dates specified in § 63.343(a). All affected sources are regulated by applying maximum achievable control technology.
(b)
Applicability of emission limitations.
(1) The emission limitations in this section apply during tank operation as defined in § 63.341, and during periods of startup and shutdown as these are routine occurrences for affected sources subject to this subpart. In response to an action to enforce the standards set forth in this subpart, the owner or operator may assert a defense to a claim for civil penalties for violations of such standards that are caused by a malfunction, as defined in 40 CFR 63.2. Appropriate penalties may be assessed, however, if the owner or operator fails to meet the burden of proving all the requirements in the affirmative defense. The affirmative defense shall not be available for claims for injunctive relief.
(i) To establish the affirmative defense in any action to enforce such a standard, the owner or operator must timely meet the reporting requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, and must prove by a preponderance of evidence that:
(A) The violation was caused by a sudden, infrequent, and unavoidable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal and usual manner; and could not have been prevented through careful planning, proper design
or better operation and maintenance practices; and did not stem from any activity or event that could have been foreseen and avoided, or planned for; and was not part of a recurring pattern indicative of inadequate design, operation, or maintenance; and
(B) Repairs were made as expeditiously as possible when exceeded violation occurred. Off-shift and overtime labor were used, to the extent practicable to make these repairs; and
(C) The frequency, amount and duration of the violation (including any bypass) were minimized to the maximum extent practicable; and
(D) If the violation resulted from a bypass of control equipment or a process, then the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage; and
(E) All possible steps were taken to minimize the impact of the violation on ambient air quality, the environment, and human health; and
(F) All emissions monitoring and control systems were kept in operation if at all possible, consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices; and
(G) All of the actions in response to the violation were documented by properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs; and
(H) At all times, the affected sources were operated in a manner consistent with good practices for minimizing emissions; and
(I) A written root cause analysis was prepared, the purpose of which is to determine, correct, and eliminate the primary causes of the malfunction and the excess emissions resulting from the malfunction event at issue. The analysis shall also specify, using the best monitoring methods and engineering judgment, the amount of excess emissions that were the result of the malfunction.
(ii)
Report.
The owner or operator seeking to assert an affirmative defense shall submit a written report to the Administrator with all necessary supporting documentation, that it has met the requirements set forth in paragraph (i) of this section. This affirmative defense report shall be included in the first periodic compliance, deviation report or excess emission report otherwise required after the initial occurrence of the violation of the relevant standard (which may be the end of any applicable averaging period). If such compliance, deviation report or excess emission report is due less than 45 days after the initial occurrence of the violation, the affirmation defense report may be included in the second compliance, deviation report or excess emission report due after the initial occurrence of the violation of the relevant standard.
(2) If an owner or operator is controlling a group of tanks with a common add-on air pollution control device, the emission limitations of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section apply whenever any one affected source is operated. The emission limitation that applies to the group of affected sources is:
(i) The emission limitation identified in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section if the affected sources are performing the same type of operation (e.g., hard chromium electroplating), are subject to the same emission limitation, and are not controlled by an add-on air pollution control device also controlling nonaffected sources;
(ii) The emission limitation calculated according to § 63.344(e)(3) if affected sources are performing the same type of operation, are subject to the same emission limitation, and are controlled with an add-on air pollution control device that is also controlling nonaffected sources; and
(iii) The emission limitation calculated according to § 63.344(e)(4) if affected sources are performing different types of operations, or affected sources are performing the same operations but subject to different emission limitations, and are controlled with an add-on air pollution control device that may also be controlling emissions from nonaffected sources.
(c)(1)
Standards for open surface hard chromium electroplating tanks.
During tank operation, each owner or operator of an existing, new, or reconstructed affected source shall control chromium emissions discharged to the atmosphere from that affected source by either:
(i) Not allowing the concentration of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere
to exceed 0.011 milligrams of total chromium per dry standard cubic meter (mg/dscm) of ventilation air (4.8 × 10
−6
grains per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf)) for all open surface hard chromium electroplating tanks that are existing affected sources and are located at large hard chromium electroplating facilities; or
(ii) Not allowing the concentration of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed 0.015 mg/dscm (6.6 × 10
−6
gr/dscf) for all open surface hard chromium electroplating tanks that are existing affected sources and are located at small, hard chromium electroplating facilities; or
(iii) If a chemical fume suppressant containing a wetting agent is used, not allowing the surface tension of the electroplating or anodizing bath contained within the affected tank to exceed 40 dynes per centimeter (dynes/cm) (2.8 × 10
−3
pound-force per foot (lbf/ft)), as measured by a stalagmometer, or 33 dynes/cm (2.3 × 10
−3
lbf/ft), as measured by a tensiometer at any time during tank operation; or
(iv) Not allowing the concentration of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed 0.006 mg/dscm of ventilation air (2.6 × 10
−6
gr/dscf) for all open surface hard chromium electroplating tanks that are new affected sources; or
(v) After September 21, 2015, the owner or operator of an affected open surface hard chromium electroplating tank shall not add PFOS-based fume suppressants to any affected open surface hard chromium electroplating tank.
(2)
Standards for enclosed hard chromium electroplating tanks.
During tank operation, each owner or operator of an existing, new, or reconstructed affected source shall control chromium emissions discharged to the atmosphere from that affected source by either:
(i) Not allowing the concentration of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed 0.011 mg/dscm of ventilation air (4.8 × 10
−6
gr/dscf) for all enclosed hard chromium electroplating tanks that are existing affected sources and are located at large hard chromium electroplating facilities; or
(ii) Not allowing the concentration of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed 0.015 mg/dscm (6.6 × 10
−6
gr/dscf) for all enclosed hard chromium electroplating tanks that are existing affected sources and are located at small, hard chromium electroplating facilities; or
(iii) If a chemical fume suppressant containing a wetting agent is used, not allowing the surface tension of the electroplating or anodizing bath contained within the affected tank to exceed 40 dynes/cm (2.8 × 10
−3
lbf/ft), as measured by a stalagmometer, or 33 dynes/cm (2.3 × 10
−3
lbf/ft), as measured by a tensiometer at any time during tank operation; or
(iv) Not allowing the mass rate of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed the maximum allowable mass emission rate determined by using the calculation procedure in § 63.344(f)(1)(i) for all enclosed hard chromium electroplating tanks that are existing affected sources and are located at large hard chromium electroplating facilities; or
(v) Not allowing the mass rate of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed the maximum allowable mass emission rate determined by using the calculation procedure in § 63.344(f)(1)(ii) if the enclosed hard chromium electroplating tank is an existing affected source and is located at a small, hard chromium electroplating facility.
(vi) Not allowing the concentration of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed 0.006 mg/dscm of ventilation air (2.6 × 10
−6
gr/dscf) for all enclosed hard chromium electroplating tanks that are new affected sources; or
(vii) Not allowing the mass rate of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed the maximum allowable mass emission rate determined by using the calculation procedure in § 63.344(f)(1)(iii) if the enclosed hard chromium electroplating tank is a new affected source.
(viii) After September 21, 2015, the owner or operator of an affected enclosed hard chromium electroplating tank shall not add PFOS-based fume
suppressants to any affected enclosed hard chromium electroplating tank.
(3)(i) An owner or operator may demonstrate the size of a hard chromium electroplating facility through the definitions in § 63.341(a). Alternatively, an owner or operator of a facility with a maximum cumulative potential rectifier capacity of 60 million amp-hr/yr or more may be considered small if the actual cumulative rectifier capacity is less than 60 million amp-hr/yr as demonstrated using the following procedures:
(A) If records show that the facility's previous annual actual rectifier capacity was less than 60 million amp-hr/yr, by using nonresettable ampere-hr meters and keeping monthly records of actual ampere-hr usage for each 12-month rolling period following the compliance date in accordance with § 63.346(b)(12). The actual cumulative rectifier capacity for the previous 12-month rolling period shall be tabulated monthly by adding the capacity for the current month to the capacities for the previous 11 months; or
(B) By accepting a federally-enforceable limit on the maximum cumulative potential rectifier capacity of a hard chromium electroplating facility and by maintaining monthly records in accordance with § 63.346(b)(12) to demonstrate that the limit has not been exceeded. The actual cumulative rectifier capacity for the previous 12-month rolling period shall be tabulated monthly by adding the capacity for the current month to the capacities for the previous 11 months.
(ii) Once the monthly records required to be kept by § 63.346(b)(12) and by this paragraph (c)(3)(ii) show that the actual cumulative rectifier capacity over the previous 12-month rolling period corresponds to the large designation, the owner or operator is subject to the emission limitation identified in paragraph (c)(1)(i), (iii), (c)(2)(i), (iii), or (iv) of this section, in accordance with the compliance schedule of § 63.343(a)(5).
(d)
Standards for decorative chromium electroplating tanks using a chromic acid bath and chromium anodizing tanks.
During tank operation, each owner or operator of an existing, new, or reconstructed affected source shall control chromium emissions discharged to the atmosphere from that affected source by either:
(1) Not allowing the concentration of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed 0.007 mg/dscm (3.1 × 10
−6
gr/dscf) for all existing decorative chromium electroplating tanks using a chromic acid bath and all existing chromium anodizing tanks; or
(2) Not allowing the concentration of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed 0.006 mg/dscm (2.6 × 10
−6
gr/dscf) for all new or reconstructed decorative chromium electroplating tanks using a chromic acid bath and all new or reconstructed chromium anodizing tanks; or
(3) If a chemical fume suppressant containing a wetting agent is used, not allowing the surface tension of the electroplating or anodizing bath contained within the affected tank to exceed 40 dynes/cm (2.8 × 10
−3
lbf/ft), as measured by a stalagmometer or 33 dynes/cm (2.3 × 10
−3
lbf/ft), as measured by a tensiometer at any time during tank operation, for all existing, new, or reconstructed decorative chromium electroplating tanks using a chromic acid bath and all existing, new, or reconstructed chromium anodizing tanks; or
(4) After September 21, 2015, the owner or operator of an affected decorative chromium electroplating tank or an affected chromium anodizing tank shall not add PFOS-based fume suppressants to any affected decorative chromium electroplating tank or chromium anodizing tank.
(e)
Standards for decorative chromium electroplating tanks using a trivalent chromium bath.
(1) Each owner or operator of an existing, new, or reconstructed decorative chromium electroplating tank that uses a trivalent chromium bath that incorporates a wetting agent as a bath ingredient is subject to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of §§ 63.346(b)(14) and 63.347(i), but are not subject to the work practice requirements of paragraph (f) of this section, or the continuous compliance monitoring requirements in § 63.343(c). The wetting agent must be an ingredient in the trivalent
chromium bath components purchased as a package.
(2) After September 21, 2015, the owner or operator of an affected decorative chromium electroplating tank using a trivalent chromium bath shall not add PFOS-based fume suppressants to any affected decorative chromium electroplating tank.
(3) Each owner or operator of an existing, new, or reconstructed decorative chromium electroplating tank that uses a trivalent chromium bath that does not incorporate a wetting agent as a bath ingredient is subject to the standards of paragraph (d) of this section.
(4) Each owner or operator of an existing, new, or reconstructed decorative chromium electroplating tank that had been using a trivalent chromium bath that incorporated a wetting agent and ceases using this type of bath must fulfill the reporting requirements of § 63.347(i)(3) and comply with the applicable emission limitation within the timeframe specified in § 63.343(a)(7).
(f)
Operation and maintenance practices.
All owners or operators subject to the standards in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section are subject to these operation and maintenance practices.
(1)(i) At all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, owners or operators shall operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control devices and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices.
(ii) Malfunctions shall be corrected as soon as practicable after their occurrence.
(iii) Operation and maintenance requirements established pursuant to section 112 of the Act are enforceable independent of emissions limitations or other requirements in relevant standards.
(2)(i) Determination of whether acceptable operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results; review of the operation and maintenance plan, procedures, and records; and inspection of the source.
(ii) Based on the results of a determination made under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, the Administrator may require that an owner or operator of an affected source make changes to the operation and maintenance plan required by paragraph (f)(3) of this section for that source. Revisions may be required if the Administrator finds that the plan:
(A) Does not address a malfunction that has occurred;
(B) Fails to provide for the proper operation of the affected source, the air pollution control techniques, or the control system and process monitoring equipment during a malfunction in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices; or
(C) Does not provide adequate procedures for correcting malfunctioning process equipment, air pollution control techniques, or monitoring equipment as quickly as practicable.
(3)
Operation and maintenance plan.
(i) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to paragraph (f) of this section shall prepare an operation and maintenance plan no later than the compliance date, except for hard chromium electroplaters and the chromium anodizing operations in California which have until January 25, 1998. The plan shall be incorporated by reference into the source's title V permit, if and when a title V permit is required. The plan shall include the following elements:
(A) The plan shall specify the operation and maintenance criteria for the affected source, the add-on air pollution control device (if such a device is used to comply with the emission limits), and the process and control system monitoring equipment, and shall include a standardized checklist to document the operation and maintenance of this equipment;
(B) For sources using an add-on control device or monitoring equipment to comply with this subpart, the plan shall incorporate the operation and maintenance practices for that device or monitoring equipment, as identified in Table 1 of this section, if the specific equipment used is identified in Table 1 of this section;
(C) If the specific equipment used is not identified in Table 1 of this section,
the plan shall incorporate proposed operation and maintenance practices. These proposed operation and maintenance practices shall be submitted for approval as part of the submittal required under § 63.343(d);
(D) The plan shall specify procedures to be followed to ensure that equipment or process malfunctions due to poor maintenance or other preventable conditions do not occur; and
(E) The plan shall include a systematic procedure for identifying malfunctions of process equipment, add-on air pollution control devices, and process and control system monitoring equipment and for implementing corrective actions to address such malfunctions.
(F) The plan shall include housekeeping procedures, as specified in Table 2 of this section.
(ii) If the operation and maintenance plan fails to address or inadequately addresses an event that meets the characteristics of a malfunction at the time the plan is initially developed, the owner or operator shall revise the operation and maintenance plan within 45 days after such an event occurs. The revised plan shall include procedures for operating and maintaining the process equipment, add-on air pollution control device, or monitoring equipment during similar malfunction events, and a program for corrective action for such events.
(iii) Recordkeeping associated with the operation and maintenance plan is identified in § 63.346(b). Reporting associated with the operation and maintenance plan is identified in § 63.347 (g) and (h) and paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section.
(iv) If actions taken by the owner or operator during periods of malfunction are inconsistent with the procedures specified in the operation and maintenance plan required by paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section, the owner or operator shall record the actions taken for that event and shall report by phone such actions within 2 working days after commencing actions inconsistent with the plan. This report shall be followed by a letter within 7 working days after the end of the event, unless the owner or operator makes alternative reporting arrangements, in advance, with the Administrator.
(v) The owner or operator shall keep the written operation and maintenance plan on record after it is developed to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator for the life of the affected source or until the source is no longer subject to the provisions of this subpart. In addition, if the operation and maintenance plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (i.e., superseded) versions of the operation and maintenance plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan.
(vi) To satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the owner or operator may use applicable standard operating procedure (SOP) manuals, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) plans, or other existing plans, provided the alternative plans meet the requirements of this section.
(g) The standards in this section that apply to chromic acid baths shall not be met by using a reducing agent to change the form of chromium from hexavalent to trivalent.
Table 1 to § 63.342—Summary of Operation and Maintenance Practices
Control technique
Operation and maintenance practices
Frequency
Composite mesh-pad (CMP) system
1. Visually inspect device to ensure there is proper drainage, no chronic acid buildup on the pads, and no evidence of chemical attack on the structural integrity of the device
1. 1/quarter.
2. Visually inspect back portion of the mesh pad closest to the fan to ensure there is no breakthrough of chromic acid mist
2. 1/quarter.
3. Visually inspect ductwork from tank to the control device to ensure there are no leaks
3. 1/quarter.
4. Perform washdown of the composite mesh-pads in accordance with manufacturers recommendations
4. Per manufacturer.
Packed-bed scrubber (PSB)
1. Visually inspect device to ensure there is proper drainage, no chromic acid buildup on the packed beds, and no evidence of chemical attack on the structural integrity of the device
1. 1/quarter.
2. Visually inspect back portion of the chevron blade mist eliminator to ensure that it is dry and there is no breakthrough of chromic acid mist
2. 1/quarter.
3. Same as number 3 above
3. 1/quarter.
4. Add fresh makeup water to the top of the packed bed
a b
4. Whenever makeup is added.
PBS/CMP system
1. Same as for CMP system
1. 1/quarter.
2. Same as for CMP system
2. 1/quarter.
3. Same as for CMP system
3. 1/quarter.
4. Same as for CMP system
4. Per manufacturer.
Fiber-bed mist eliminator
c
1. Visually inspect fiber-bed unit and prefiltering device to ensure there is proper drainage, no chromic acid buildup in the units, and no evidence of chemical attack on the structural integrity of the devices
1. 1/quarter.
2. Visually inspect ductwork from tank or tanks to the control device to ensure there are no leaks
2. 1/quarter.
3. Perform washdown of fiber elements in accordance with manufacturers recommendations
3. Per manufacturer.
Air pollution control device (APCD) not listed in rule
To be proposed by the source for approval by the Administrator
To be proposed by the source for approval by the Administrator.
Monitoring Equipment
Pitot tube
Backflush with water, or remove from the duct and rinse with fresh water. Replace in the duct and rotate 180 degrees to ensure that the same zero reading is obtained. Check pitot tube ends for damage. Replace pitot tube if cracked or fatigued
1/quarter.
Stalagmometer
Follow manufacturers recommendations
a
If greater than 50 percent of the scrubber water is drained (e.g., for maintenance purposes), makeup water may be added to the scrubber basin.
b
For horizontal-flow scrubbers, top is defined as the section of the unit directly above the packing media such that the makeup water would flow perpendicular to the air flow through the packing. For vertical-flow units, the top is defined as the area downstream of the packing material such that the makeup water would flow countercurrent to the air flow through the unit.
c
Work practice standards for the control device installed upstream of the fiber-bed mist eliminator to prevent plugging do not apply as long as the work practice standards for the fiber-bed unit are followed.
Table 2 to § 63.342—Housekeeping Practices
For
You must:
At this minimum frequency
1. Any substance used in an affected chromium electroplating or chromium anodizing tank that contains hexavalent chromium
(a) Store the substance in a closed container in an enclosed storage area or building; AND
(b) Use a closed container when transporting the substance from the enclosed storage area
At all times, except when transferring the substance to and from the container.
Whenever transporting substance, except when transferring the substance to and from the container.
2. Each affected tank, to minimize spills of bath solution that result from dragout. Note: this measure does not require the return of contaminated bath solution to the tank. This requirement applies only as the parts are removed from the tank. Once away from the tank area, any spilled solution must be handled in accordance with Item 4 of these housekeeping measures
(a) Install drip trays that collect and return to the tank any bath solution that drips or drains from parts as the parts are removed from the tank; OR
(b) Contain and return to the tank any bath solution that drains or drips from parts as the parts are removed from the tank; OR
(c) Collect and treat in an onsite wastewater treatment plant any bath solution that drains or drips from parts as the parts are removed from the tank
Prior to operating the tank.
Whenever removing parts from an affected tank.
Whenever removing parts from an affected tank.
3. Each spraying operation for removing excess chromic acid from parts removed from, and occurring over, an affected tank
Install a splash guard to minimize overspray during spraying operations and to ensure that any hexavalent chromium laden liquid captured by the splash guard is returned to the affected chromium electroplating or anodizing tank
Prior to any such spraying operation.
4. Each operation that involves the handling or use of any substance used in an affected chromium electroplating or chromium anodizing tank that contains hexavalent chromium
Begin clean up, or otherwise contain, all spills of the substance. Note: substances that fall or flow into drip trays, pans, sumps, or other containment areas are not considered spills
Within 1 hour of the spill.
5. Surfaces within the enclosed storage area, open floor area, walkways around affected tanks contaminated with hexavalent chromium from an affected chromium electroplating or chromium anodizing tank
(a) Clean the surfaces using one or more of the following methods: HEPA vacuuming; Hand-wiping with a damp cloth; Wet mopping; Hose down or rinse with potable water that is collected in a wastewater collection system; Other cleaning method approved by the permitting authority; OR
(b) Apply a non-toxic chemical dust suppressant to the surfaces
At least once every 7 days if one or more chromium electroplating or chromium anodizing tanks were used, or at least after every 40 hours of operating time of one or more affection chromium electroplating or chromium anodizing tank, whichever is later.
According to manufacturer's recommendations.
6. All buffing, grinding, or polishing operations that are located in the same room as chromium electroplating or chromium anodizing operations
Separate the operation from any affected electroplating or anodizing operation by installing a physical barrier; the barrier may take the form of plastic strip curtains
Prior to beginning the buffing, grinding, or polishing operation.
7. All chromium or chromium-containing wastes generated from housekeeping activities
Store, dispose, recover, or recycle the wastes using practices that do not lead to fugitive dust and in accordance with hazardous waste requirements
At all times.
[60 FR 4963, Jan. 25, 1995; 60 FR 33122, June 27, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 27787, June 3, 1996; 62 FR 42920, Aug. 11, 1997; 68 FR 37347, June 23, 2003; 69 FR 42894, July 19, 2004; 71 FR 20456, Apr. 20, 2006; 77 FR 58243, Sept. 19, 2012]
§ 63.343
Compliance provisions.
(a)
Compliance dates.
(1) The owner or operator of an existing affected source shall comply with the emission limitations in § 63.342 no later than September 19, 2014.
(2) The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source that has an initial startup after September 19, 2012, shall comply immediately upon startup of the source.
(3) The owner or operator of an existing area source that increases actual or potential emissions of hazardous air pollutants such that the area source becomes a major source must comply with the provisions for existing major sources, including the reporting provisions of § 63.347(g), immediately upon becoming a major source.
(4) The owner or operator of a new area source (i.e., an area source for which construction or reconstruction was commenced after February 8, 2012, that increases actual or potential emissions of hazardous air pollutants such that the area source becomes a major source must comply with the provisions for new major sources, immediately upon becoming a major source.
(5) An owner or operator of an existing hard chromium electroplating tank or tanks located at a small, hard chromium electroplating facility that increases its maximum cumulative potential rectifier capacity, or its actual cumulative rectifier capacity, such that the facility becomes a large, hard chromium electroplating facility must comply with the requirements of § 63.342(c)(1)(i) for all hard chromium electroplating tanks at the facility no later than 1 year after the month in which monthly records required by §§ 63.342(c)(2) and 63.346(b)(12) show that the large designation is met, or by the compliance date specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, whichever is later.
(6)
Request for an extension of compliance.
An owner or operator of an affected source or sources that requests an extension of compliance shall do so in accordance with this paragraph and the applicable paragraphs of § 63.6(i). When the owner or operator is requesting the extension for more than one affected source located at the facility, then only one request may be submitted for all affected sources at the facility.
(i) The owner or operator of an existing affected source who is unable to comply with a relevant standard under this subpart may request that the Administrator (or a State, when the State
has an approved part 70 permit program and the source is required to obtain a part 70 permit under that program, or a State, when the State has been delegated the authority to implement and enforce the emission standard for that source) grant an extension allowing the owner or operator up to 1 additional year to comply with the standard for the affected source. The owner or operator of an affected source who has requested an extension of compliance under this paragraph and is otherwise required to obtain a title V permit for the source shall apply for such permit or apply to have the title V permit revised to incorporate the conditions of the extension of compliance. The conditions of an extension of compliance granted under this paragraph will be incorporated into the owner or operator's title V permit for the affected source(s) according to the provisions of 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, whichever is applicable.
(ii) Any request under this paragraph for an extension of compliance with a relevant standard shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate authority not later than 6 months before the affected source's compliance date as specified in this section.
(7) An owner or operator of a decorative chromium electroplating tank that uses a trivalent chromium bath that incorporates a wetting agent, and that ceases using the trivalent chromium process, must comply with the emission limitation now applicable to the tank within 1 year of switching bath operation.
(8) After March 19, 2013, the owner or operator of an affected source that is subject to the standards in paragraphs § 63.342(c) or (d) shall implement the housekeeping procedures specified in Table 2 of § 63.342.
(b)
Methods to demonstrate initial compliance.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, an owner or operator of an affected source subject to the requirements of this subpart is required to conduct an initial performance test as required under § 63.7, using the procedures and test methods listed in §§ 63.7 and 63.344.
(2) If the owner or operator of an affected source meets all of the following criteria, an initial performance test is not required to be conducted under this subpart:
(i) The affected source is a hard chromium electroplating tank, a decorative chromium electroplating tank or a chromium anodizing tank; and
(ii) A wetting agent is used in the plating or anodizing bath to inhibit chromium emissions from the affected source; and
(iii) The owner or operator complies with the applicable surface tension limit of § 63.342(c)(1)(iii), (c)(2)(iii), or (d)(2) as demonstrated through the continuous compliance monitoring required by paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section.
(3) If the affected source is a decorative chromium electroplating tank using a trivalent chromium bath, and the owner or operator is subject to the provisions of § 63.342(e), an initial performance test is not required to be conducted under this subpart.
(c)
Monitoring to demonstrate continuous compliance.
The owner or operator of an affected source subject to the emission limitations of this subpart shall conduct monitoring according to the type of air pollution control technique that is used to comply with the emission limitation. The monitoring required to demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations is identified in this section for the air pollution control techniques expected to be used by the owners or operators of affected sources. As an alternative to the daily monitoring, the owner or operator of an affected source may install a continuous pressure monitoring system.
(1)
Composite mesh-pad systems.
(i) During the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected source, or a group of affected sources under common control, complying with the emission limitations in § 63.342 through the use of a composite mesh-pad system shall determine the outlet chromium concentration using the test methods and procedures in § 63.344(c), and shall establish as a site-specific operating parameter the pressure drop across the system, setting the value that corresponds to compliance with the applicable emission limitation, using the procedures in § 63.344(d)(5). An
owner or operator may conduct multiple performance tests to establish a range of compliant pressure drop values, or may set as the compliant value the average pressure drop measured over the three test runs of one performance test and accept ±2 inches of water column from this value as the compliant range.
(ii) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is required to be completed under § 63.7, the owner or operator of an affected source, or group of affected sources under common control, shall monitor and record the pressure drop across the composite mesh-pad system once each day that any affected source is operating. To be in compliance with the standards, the composite mesh-pad system shall be operated within ±2 inches of water column of the pressure drop value established during the initial performance test, or shall be operated within the range of compliant values for pressure drop established during multiple performance tests.
(iii) The owner or operator of an affected source complying with the emission limitations in § 63.343 through the use of a composite mesh-pad system may repeat the performance test and establish as a new site-specific operating parameter the pressure drop across the composite mesh-pad system according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. To establish a new site-specific operating parameter for pressure drop, the owner or operator shall satisfy the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) Determine the outlet chromium concentration using the test methods and procedures in § 63.344(c);
(B) Establish the site-specific operating parameter value using the procedures § 63.344(d)(5);
(C) Satisfy the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.346(b)(6) through (8); and
(D) Satisfy the reporting requirements in § 63.347(d) and (f).
(iv) The requirement to operate a composite mesh-pad system within the range of pressure drop values established under paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section does not apply during automatic washdown cycles of the composite mesh-pad system.
(2)
Packed-bed scrubber systems.
(i) During the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected source, or group of affected sources under common control, complying with the emission limitations in § 63.342 through the use of a packed-bed scrubber system shall determine the outlet chromium concentration using the procedures in § 63.344(c), and shall establish as site-specific operating parameters the pressure drop across the system and the velocity pressure at the common inlet of the control device, setting the value that corresponds to compliance with the applicable emission limitation using the procedures in § 63.344(d) (4) and (5). An owner or operator may conduct multiple performance tests to establish a range of compliant operating parameter values. Alternatively, the owner or operator may set as the compliant value the average pressure drop and inlet velocity pressure measured over the three test runs of one performance test, and accept ±1 inch of water column from the pressure drop value and ±10 percent from the velocity pressure value as the compliant range.
(ii) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is required to be completed under § 63.7, the owner or operator of an affected source, or group of affected sources under common control, shall monitor and record the velocity pressure at the inlet to the packed-bed system and the pressure drop across the scrubber system once each day that any affected source is operating. To be in compliance with the standards, the scrubber system shall be operated within ±10 percent of the velocity pressure value established during the initial performance test, and within ±1 inch of water column of the pressure drop value established during the initial performance test, or within the range of compliant operating parameter values established during multiple performance tests.
(3)
Packed-bed scrubber/composite mesh-pad system.
The owner or operator of an affected source, or group of affected sources under common control, that uses a packed-bed scrubber in conjunction with a composite mesh-pad system
to meet the emission limitations of § 63.342 shall comply with the monitoring requirements for composite mesh-pad systems as identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(4)
Fiber-bed mist eliminator.
(i) During the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected source, or group of affected sources under common control, complying with the emission limitations in § 63.342 through the use of a fiber-bed mist eliminator shall determine the outlet chromium concentration using the procedures in § 63.344(c), and shall establish as a site-specific operating parameter the pressure drop across the fiber-bed mist eliminator and the pressure drop across the control device installed upstream of the fiber bed to prevent plugging, setting the value that corresponds to compliance with the applicable emission limitation using the procedures in § 63.344(d)(5). An owner or operator may conduct multiple performance tests to establish a range of compliant pressure drop values, or may set as the compliant value the average pressure drop measured over the three test runs of one performance test and accept ±1 inch of water column from this value as the compliant range.
(ii) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is required to be completed under § 63.7, the owner or operator of an affected source, or group of affected sources under common control, shall monitor and record the pressure drop across the fiber-bed mist eliminator, and the control device installed upstream of the fiber bed to prevent plugging, once each day that any affected source is operating. To be in compliance with the standards, the fiber-bed mist eliminator and the upstream control device shall be operated within ±1 inch of water column of the pressure drop value established during the initial performance test, or shall be operated within the range of compliant values for pressure drop established during multiple performance tests.
(5)
Wetting agent-type or combination wetting agent-type/foam blanket fume suppressants.
(i) During the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected source complying with the emission limitations in § 63.342 through the use of a wetting agent in the electroplating or anodizing bath shall determine the outlet chromium concentration using the procedures in § 63.344(c). The owner or operator shall establish as the site-specific operating parameter the surface tension of the bath using Method 306B, appendix A of this part, setting the maximum value that corresponds to compliance with the applicable emission limitation. In lieu of establishing the maximum surface tension during the performance test, the owner or operator may accept 40 dynes/cm, as measured by a stalagmometer, or 33 dynes/cm, as measured by a tensiometer, as the maximum surface tension value that corresponds to compliance with the applicable emission limitation. However, the owner or operator is exempt from conducting a performance test only if the criteria of paragraph (b)(1) of this section are met.
(ii) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is required to be completed under § 63.7, the owner or operator of an affected source shall monitor the surface tension of the electroplating or anodizing bath. Operation of the affected source at a surface tension greater than the value established during the performance test, or greater than 40 dynes/cm, as measured by a stalagmometer, or 33 dynes/cm, as measured by a tensiometer, if the owner or operator is using this value in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, shall constitute noncompliance with the standards. The surface tension shall be monitored according to the following schedule:
(iii) Once a bath solution is drained from the affected tank and a new solution added, the original monitoring schedule of once every 4 hours must be resumed, with a decrease in monitoring frequency allowed following the procedures of paragraphs (c)(5)(ii) (B) and (C) of this section.
(6)
Foam blanket-type fume suppressants.
(i) During the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected source complying with the emission limitations in § 63.342 through the use of a foam blanket in the electroplating or anodizing bath shall determine the outlet chromium concentration using the procedures in § 63.344(c), and shall establish as the
site-specific operating parameter the thickness of the foam blanket, setting the minimum thickness that corresponds to compliance with the applicable emission limitation. In lieu of establishing the minimum foam blanket thickness during the performance test, the owner or operator may accept 2.54 centimeters (1 inch) as the minimum foam blanket thickness that corresponds to compliance with the applicable emission limitation. All foam blanket measurements must be taken in close proximity to the workpiece or cathode area in the plating tank(s).
(ii) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is required to be completed under § 63.7, the owner or operator of an affected source shall monitor the foam blanket thickness of the electroplating or anodizing bath. Operation of the affected source at a foam blanket thickness less than the value established during the performance test, or less than 2.54 cm (1 inch) if the owner or operator is using this value in accordance with paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, shall constitute noncompliance with the standards. The foam blanket thickness shall be measured according to the following schedule:
(iii) Once a bath solution is drained from the affected tank and a new solution added, the original monitoring schedule of once every hour must be resumed, with a decrease in monitoring frequency allowed following the procedures of paragraphs (c)(6)(ii) (B) and (C) of this section.
(7)
Fume suppressant/add-on control device.
(i) If the owner or operator of an affected source uses both a fume suppressant and add-on control device and both are needed to comply with the applicable emission limit, monitoring requirements as identified in paragraphs (c) (1) through (6) of this section, and the work practice standards of Table 1 of § 63.342, apply for each of the control techniques used.
(ii) If the owner or operator of an affected source uses both a fume suppressant and add-on control device, but only one of these techniques is needed to comply with the applicable emission limit, monitoring requirements as identified in paragraphs (c) (1) through (6) of this section, and work practice standards of Table 1 of § 63.342, apply only for the control technique used to achieve compliance.
(8)
Use of an alternative monitoring method.
(i) Requests and approvals of alternative monitoring methods shall be considered in accordance with § 63.8(f)(1), (f)(3), (f)(4), and (f)(5).
(ii) After receipt and consideration of an application for an alternative monitoring method, the Administrator may approve alternatives to any monitoring methods or procedures of this subpart including, but not limited to, the following:
(A) Alternative monitoring requirements when installation or use of monitoring devices specified in this subpart would not provide accurate measurements due to interferences caused by substances within the effluent gases; or
(B) Alternative locations for installing monitoring devices when the owner or operator can demonstrate that installation at alternate locations will enable accurate and representative measurements.
(d) An owner or operator who uses an air pollution control device not listed in this section shall submit a description of the device, test results collected in accordance with § 63.344(c) verifying the performance of the device for reducing chromium emissions to the atmosphere to the level required by this subpart, a copy of the operation and maintenance plan referenced in § 63.342(f) including operation and maintenance practices, and appropriate operating parameters that will be monitored to establish continuous compliance with the standards. The monitoring plan submitted identifying the continuous compliance monitoring is subject to the Administrator's approval.
[60 FR 4963, Jan. 25, 1995; 60 FR 33122, June 27, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 42920, Aug. 11, 1997; 68 FR 37347, June 23, 2003; 69 FR 42895, July 19, 2004; 77 FR 58245, Sept. 19, 2012]
§ 63.344
Performance test requirements and test methods.
(a)
Performance test requirements.
Performance tests shall be conducted using the test methods and procedures in this section. Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the
owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests. Performance test results shall be documented in complete test reports that contain the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section. The test plan to be followed shall be made available to the Administrator prior to the testing, if requested.
(1) A brief process description;
(2) Sampling location description(s);
(3) A description of sampling and analytical procedures and any modifications to standard procedures;
(4) Test results;
(5) Quality assurance procedures and results;
(6) Records of operating conditions during the test, preparation of standards, and calibration procedures;
(7) Raw data sheets for field sampling and field and laboratory analyses;
(8) Documentation of calculations; and
(9) Any other information required by the test method.
(b)(1) If the owner or operator of an affected source conducts performance testing at startup to obtain an operating permit in the State in which the affected source is located, the results of such testing may be used to demonstrate compliance with this subpart if:
(i) The test methods and procedures identified in paragraph (c) of this section were used during the performance test;
(ii) The performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions for the source;
(iii) The performance test report contains the elements required by paragraph (a) of this section;
(iv) The owner or operator of the affected source for which the performance test was conducted has sufficient data to establish the operating parameter value(s) that correspond to compliance with the standards, as required for continuous compliance monitoring under § 63.343(c);
(v) The performance test was conducted after January 25, 1995;
(vi) As of September 19, 2012 the source was using the same emissions controls that were used during the compliance test;
(vii) As of September 19, 2012, the source was operating under conditions that are representative of the conditions under which the source was operating during the compliance test; and
(viii) Based on approval from the permitting authority.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)
Test methods.
Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart and required by § 63.343(b) to conduct an initial performance test shall use the test methods identified in this section to demonstrate compliance with the standards in § 63.342.
(1) Method 306 or Method 306A, “Determination of Chromium Emissions From Decorative and Hard Chromium Electroplating and Anodizing Operations,” appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the chromium concentration from hard or decorative chromium electroplating tanks or chromium anodizing tanks. The sampling time and sample volume for each run of Methods 306 and 306A, appendix A of this part shall be at least 120 minutes and 1.70 dscm (60 dscf), respectively. Methods 306 and 306A, appendix A of this part allow the measurement of either total chromium or hexavalent chromium emissions. For the purposes of this standard, sources using chromic acid baths must demonstrate compliance with the emission limits of § 63.342 by measuring the total chromium.
(2) The California Air Resources Board (CARB) Method 425 (which is available by contacting the California Air Resources Board, 1102 Q Street, Sacramento, California 95814) may be used to determine the chromium concentration from hard and decorative chromium electroplating tanks and chromium anodizing tanks if the following conditions are met:
(i) If a colorimetric analysis method is used, the sampling time and volume shall be sufficient to result in 33 to 66 micrograms of catch in the sampling train.
(ii) If Atomic Absorption Graphite Furnace (AAGF) or Ion Chromatography with a Post-column Reactor (ICPCR) analyses were used, the sampling time and volume should be sufficient to result in a sample catch that is 5 to 10 times the minimum detection limit of the analytical method (i.e., 1.0 microgram per liter of sample for AAGF and 0.5 microgram per liter of sample for ICPCR).
(iii) In the case of either paragraph (c)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section, a minimum of 3 separate runs must be conducted. The other requirements of § 63.7 that apply to affected sources, as indicated in Table 1 of this subpart, must also be met.
(3) Method 306B, “Surface Tension Measurement and Recordkeeping for Tanks Used at Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Anodizing Facilities,” appendix A of this part shall be used to measure the surface tension of electroplating and anodizing baths.
(4) Alternate test methods may also be used if the method has been validated using Method 301, appendix A of this part and if approved by the Administrator. Procedures for requesting and obtaining approval are contained in § 63.7(f).
(5) The South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) Method 205.1 (which is available by contacting the South Coast AQMD, 21865 Copley Dr, Diamond Bar, CA 91765) may be used to determine the total chromium concentration from hard and decorative chromium electroplating tanks and chromium anodizing tanks.
(d)
Establishing site-specific operating parameter values.
(1) Each owner or operator required to establish site-specific operating parameters shall follow the procedures in this section.
(2) All monitoring equipment shall be installed such that representative measurements of emissions or process parameters from the affected source are obtained. For monitoring equipment purchased from a vendor, verification of the operational status of the monitoring equipment shall include execution of the manufacturer's written specifications or recommendations for installation, operation, and calibration of the system.
(i) Specifications for differential pressure measurement devices used to measure velocity pressure shall be in accordance with section 2.2 of Method 2 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A).
(ii) Specification for differential pressure measurement devices used to measure pressure drop across a control system shall be in accordance with manufacturer's accuracy specifications.
(3) The surface tension of electroplating and anodizing baths shall be measured using Method 306B, “Surface Tension Measurement and Recordkeeping for Tanks used at Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Anodizing Facilities,” appendix A of this part. This method should also be followed when wetting agent type or combination wetting agent/foam blanket type fume suppressants are used to control chromium emissions from a hard chromium electroplating tank and surface tension measurement is conducted to demonstrate continuous compliance.
(4) The owner or operator of a source required to measure the velocity pressure at the inlet to an add-on air pollution control device in accordance with § 63.343(c)(2), shall establish the site-specific velocity pressure as follows:
(i) Locate a velocity traverse port in a section of straight duct that connects the hooding on the plating tank or tanks with the control device. The port shall be located as close to the control system as possible, and shall be placed a minimum of 2 duct diameters downstream and 0.5 diameter upstream of any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, or contraction (see Method 1, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A). If 2.5 diameters of straight duct work does not exist, locate the port 0.8 of the duct diameter downstream and 0.2 of the duct diameter upstream from any flow disturbance.
(ii) A 12-point velocity traverse of the duct to the control device shall be conducted along a single axis according to Method 2 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) using an S-type pitot tube; measurement of the barometric pressure and duct temperature at each traverse point is not required, but is suggested. Mark the S-type pitot tube as specified in Method 1 (40 CFR part 60, appendix
A) with 12 points. Measure the velocity pressure (Δ p) values for the velocity points and record. Determine the square root of the individual velocity point Δ p values and average. The point with the square root value that comes closest to the average square root value is the point of average velocity. The Δ p value measured for this point during the performance test will be used as the reference for future monitoring.
(5) The owner or operator of a source required to measure the pressure drop across the add-on air pollution control device in accordance with § 63.343(c) (1) through (4) may establish the pressure drop in accordance with the following guidelines:
(i) Pressure taps shall be installed at any of the following locations:
(A) At the inlet and outlet of the control system. The inlet tap should be installed in the ductwork just prior to the control device and the corresponding outlet pressure tap should be installed on the outlet side of the control device prior to the blower or on the downstream side of the blower;
(B) On each side of the packed bed within the control system or on each side of each mesh pad within the control system; or
(C) On the front side of the first mesh pad and back side of the last mesh pad within the control system.
(ii) Pressure taps shall be sited at locations that are:
(A) Free from pluggage as possible and away from any flow disturbances such as cyclonic demisters.
(B) Situated such that no air infiltration at measurement site will occur that could bias the measurement.
(iii) Pressure taps shall be constructed of either polyethylene, polybutylene, or other nonreactive materials.
(iv) Nonreactive plastic tubing shall be used to connect the pressure taps to the device used to measure pressure drop.
(v) Any of the following pressure gauges can be used to monitor pressure drop: a magnehelic gauge, an inclined manometer, or a “U” tube manometer.
(vi) Prior to connecting any pressure lines to the pressure gauge(s), each gauge should be zeroed. No calibration of the pressure gauges is required.
(e)
Special compliance provisions for multiple sources controlled by a common add-on air pollution control device.
(1) This section identifies procedures for measuring the outlet chromium concentration from an add-on air pollution control device that is used to control multiple sources that may or may not include sources not affected by this subpart.
(2) When multiple affected sources performing the same type of operation (e.g., all are performing hard chromium electroplating), and subject to the same emission limitation, are controlled with an add-on air pollution control device that is not controlling emissions from any other type of affected operation or from any nonaffected sources, the applicable emission limitation identified in § 63.342 must be met at the outlet of the add-on air pollution control device.
(3) When multiple affected sources performing the same type of operation and subject to the same emission limitation are controlled with a common add-on air pollution control device that is also controlling emissions from sources not affected by these standards, the following procedures should be followed to determine compliance with the applicable emission limitation in § 63.342:
(i) Calculate the cross-sectional area of each inlet duct (i.e., uptakes from each hood) including those not affected by the standard.
(ii) Determine the total sample time per test run by dividing the total inlet area from all tanks connected to the control system by the total inlet area for all ducts associated with affected sources, and then multiply this number by 2 hours. The calculated time is the minimum sample time required per test run.
(iii) Perform Method 306 or 306A testing and calculate an outlet mass emission rate.
(iv) Determine the total ventilation rate from the affected sources (VR
inlet
) by using equation 1:
ER19SE12.000
where VR
tot
is the average total ventilation rate in dscm/min for the three test runs as determined at the outlet by means of the Method 306 or 306A testing; IDA
i
is the total inlet area for all ducts associated with affected sources; ∑IA
total
is the sum of all inlet duct areas from both affected and nonaffected sources; and VR
inlet
is the total ventilation rate from all inlet ducts associated with affected sources.
(v) Establish the allowable mass emission rate of the system (AMR
sys
) in milligrams of total chromium per hour (mg/hr) using equation 2:
ER19SE12.001
where Σ VR
inlet
is the total ventilation rate in dscm/min from the affected sources, and EL is the applicable emission limitation from § 63.342 in mg/dscm. The allowable mass emission rate (AMR
sys
) calculated from equation 2 should be equal to or more than the outlet three-run average mass emission rate determined from Method 306 or 306A testing in order for the source to be in compliance with the standard.
(4) When multiple affected sources performing different types of operations (e.g., hard chromium electroplating, decorative chromium electroplating, or chromium anodizing) are controlled by a common add-on air pollution control device that may or may not also be controlling emissions from sources not affected by these standards, or if the affected sources controlled by the common add-on air pollution control device perform the same operation but are subject to different emission limitations (e.g., because one is a new hard chromium plating tank and one is an existing small, hard chromium plating tank), the following procedures should be followed to determine compliance with the applicable emission limitation in § 63.342:
(i) Follow the steps outlined in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(iii) of this section.
(ii) Determine the total ventilation rate for each type of affected source (VR
inlet
,a) using equation 3:
ER19SE12.002
where VR
tot
is the average total ventilation rate in dscm/min for the three test runs as determined at the outlet by means of the Method 306 or 306A testing; IDA
i,a
is the total inlet duct area for all ducts conveying chromic acid from each type of affected source performing the same operation, or each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation; ∑IA
total
is the sum of all duct areas from both affected and nonaffected sources; and VR
inlet,a
is the total ventilation rate from all inlet ducts conveying chromic acid from each type of affected source performing the same operation, or each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation.
(iii) Establish the allowable mass emission rate in mg/hr for each type of affected source that is controlled by the add-on air pollution control device using equation 4, 5, 6, or 7 as appropriate:
VR
hc1
× EL
hc1
× 60 minutes/hour = AMR
hc1
(4)
VR
hc2
× EL
hc2
× 60 minutes/hour = AMR
hc2
(5)
VR
dc
× EL
dc
× 60 minutes/hour = AMR
dc
(6)
VR
ca
× EL
ca
× 60 minutes/hour = AMR
ca
(7)
where “hc” applies to the total of ventilation rates for all hard chromium electroplating tanks subject to the same emission limitation, “dc” applies to the total of ventilation rates for the decorative chromium electroplating tanks, “ca” applies to the total of ventilation rates for the chromium anodizing tanks, and EL is the applicable emission limitation from § 63.342 in mg/dscm. There are two equations for hard chromium electroplating tanks because different emission limitations may apply (e.g., a new tank versus an existing, small tank).
(iv) Establish the allowable mass emission rate of the system (AMR
sys
) in milligrams of total chromium per hour (mg/hr) using equation 8, including each type of affected source as appropriate:
ER19SE12.003
The allowable mass emission rate calculated from equation 8 should be equal to or more than the outlet three-run average mass emission rate determined from Method 306 or 306A testing in order for the source to be in compliance with the standards.
(5) Each owner or operator that uses the special compliance provisions of this paragraph to demonstrate compliance with the emission limitations of § 63.342 shall submit the measurements and calculations to support these compliance methods with the notification of compliance status required by § 63.347(e).
(6) Each owner or operator that uses the special compliance provisions of this section to demonstrate compliance with the emission limitations of § 63.342 shall repeat these procedures if a tank is added or removed from the control system regardless of whether that tank is a nonaffected source. If the new nonaffected tank replaces an existing nonaffected tank of the same size and is connected to the control system through the same size inlet duct then this procedure does not have to be repeated.
(f)
Compliance provisions for the mass rate emission standard for enclosed hard chromium electroplating tanks.
(1) This section identifies procedures for calculating the maximum allowable mass emission rate for owners or operators of affected sources who choose to meet the mass emission rate standard in § 63.342(c)(2)(iv) or (v).
(i)(A) The owner or operator of an enclosed hard chromium electroplating tank that is an existing affected source and is located at a large hard chromium electroplating facility who chooses to meet the mass emission rate standard in § 63.342(c)(2)(iv) shall determine compliance by not allowing the mass rate of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed the maximum allowable mass emission rate calculated using equation 9:
ER19SE12.004
(B) Compliance with the alternative mass emission limit is demonstrated if the three-run average mass emission rate determined from Method 306 testing is less than or equal to the maximum allowable mass emission rate calculated from equation 9.
(ii)(A) The owner or operator of an enclosed hard chromium electroplating tank that is an existing affected source located at a small hard chromium electroplating facility who chooses to meet the mass emission rate standard in § 63.342(c)(2)(v) shall determine compliance by not allowing the mass rate of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed the maximum allowable mass emission rate calculated using equation 10:
ER19SE12.005
(B) Compliance with the alternative mass emission limit is demonstrated if the three-run average mass emission rate determined from testing using Method 306 of appendix A to part 63 is less than or equal to the maximum allowable mass emission rate calculated from equation 10.
(iii)(A) The owner or operator of an enclosed hard chromium electroplating tank that is a new source who chooses to meet the mass emission rate standard in § 63.342(c)(2)(vii) shall determine compliance by not allowing the mass rate of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed the maximum allowable mass emission rate calculated using equation 11:
ER19SE12.006
(B) Compliance with the alternative mass emission limit is demonstrated if the three-run average mass emission rate determined from testing using Method 306 or 306A of appendix A to part 63 is less than or equal to the maximum allowable mass emission rate calculated from equation 11.
[60 FR 4963, Jan. 25, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 27787, June 3, 1996; 69 FR 42896, July 19, 2004; 77 FR 58246, Sept. 19, 2012; 79 FR 11283, Feb. 27, 2014]
§ 63.345
Provisions for new and reconstructed sources.
(a) This section identifies the preconstruction review requirements for new and reconstructed affected sources that are subject to, or become subject to, this subpart.
(b)
New or reconstructed affected sources.
The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source is subject to § 63.5(a), (b)(1), (b)(5), (b)(6), and (f)(1), as well as the provisions of this paragraph.
(1) After January 25, 1995, whether or not an approved permit program is effective in the State in which an affected source is (or would be) located, no person may construct a new affected source or reconstruct an affected source subject to this subpart, or reconstruct a source such that it becomes an affected source subject to this subpart, without submitting a notification of construction or reconstruction to the Administrator. The notification shall contain the information identified in paragraphs (b) (2) and (3) of this section, as appropriate.
(2) The notification of construction or reconstruction required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall include:
(i) The owner or operator's name, title, and address;
(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) or proposed address of the affected source if different from the owner's or operator's;
(iii) A notification of intention to construct a new affected source or make any physical or operational changes to an affected source that may meet or has been determined to meet the criteria for a reconstruction as defined in § 63.2;
(iv) An identification of subpart N of this part as the basis for the notification;
(v) The expected commencement and completion dates of the construction or reconstruction;
(vi) The anticipated date of (initial) startup of the affected source;
(vii) The type of process operation to be performed (hard or decorative chromium electroplating, or chromium anodizing);
(viii) A description of the air pollution control technique to be used to control emissions from the affected source, such as preliminary design drawings and design capacity if an add-on air pollution control device is used; and
(ix) An estimate of emissions from the source based on engineering calculations and vendor information on control device efficiency, expressed in units consistent with the emission limits of this subpart. Calculations of emission estimates should be in sufficient detail to permit assessment of the validity of the calculations.
(3) If a reconstruction is to occur, the notification required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall include the following in addition to the information required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section:
(i) A brief description of the affected source and the components to be replaced;
(ii) A brief description of the present and proposed emission control technique, including the information required by paragraphs (b)(2) (viii) and (ix) of this section;
(iii) An estimate of the fixed capital cost of the replacements and of constructing a comparable entirely new source;
(iv) The estimated life of the affected source after the replacements; and
(v) A discussion of any economic or technical limitations the source may have in complying with relevant standards or other requirements after the proposed replacements. The discussion shall be sufficiently detailed to demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the technical or economic limitations affect the source's ability to comply with the relevant standard and how they do so.
(vi) If in the notification of reconstruction, the owner or operator designates the affected source as a reconstructed source and declares that there are no economic or technical limitations to prevent the source from complying with all relevant standards or requirements, the owner or operator need not submit the information required in paragraphs (b)(3) (iii) through (v) of this section.
(4) The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source that submits a notification in accordance with paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section is not subject to approval by the Administrator. Construction or reconstruction is subject only to notification and can begin upon submission of a complete notification.
(5)
Submittal timeframes.
After January 25, 1995, whether or not an approved permit program is effective in the State in which an affected source is (or would be) located, an owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source shall submit the notification of construction or reconstruction required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section according to the following schedule:
(i) If construction or reconstruction commences after January 25, 1995, the notification shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence.
(ii) If the construction or reconstruction had commenced and initial startup had not occurred before January 25, 1995, the notification shall be submitted as soon as practicable before startup but no later than 60 days after January 25, 1995.
§ 63.346
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of each affected source subject to these standards shall fulfill all recordkeeping requirements outlined in this section and in the General Provisions to 40 CFR part 63, according to the applicability of subpart A of this part as identified in Table 1 of this subpart.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain the following records for such source:
(1) Inspection records for the add-on air pollution control device, if such a device is used, and monitoring equipment, to document that the inspection and maintenance required by the work practice standards of § 63.342(f) and Table 1 of § 63.342 have taken place. The record can take the form of a checklist and should identify the device inspected, the date of inspection, a brief description of the working condition of the device during the inspection, and any actions taken to correct deficiencies found during the inspection.
(2) Records of all maintenance performed on the affected source, the add-on air pollution control device, and monitoring equipment, except routine housekeeping practices;
(3) Records of the occurrence, duration, and cause (if known) of each malfunction of process, add-on air pollution control, and monitoring equipment;
(4) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.342(a)(1), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation;
(5) Other records, which may take the form of checklists, necessary to demonstrate consistency with the provisions of the operation and maintenance plan required by § 63.342(f)(3);
(6) Test reports documenting results of all performance tests;
(7) All measurements as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests, including measurements necessary to determine compliance with the special compliance procedures of § 63.344(e);
(8) Records of monitoring data required by § 63.343(c) that are used to demonstrate compliance with the standard including the date and time the data are collected;
(9) The specific identification (i.e., the date and time of commencement and completion) of each period of excess emissions, as indicated by monitoring data, that occurs during malfunction of the process, add-on air pollution control, or monitoring equipment;
(10) The specific identification (i.e., the date and time of commencement and completion) of each period of excess emissions, as indicated by monitoring data, that occurs during periods other than malfunction of the process, add-on air pollution control, or monitoring equipment;
(11) The total process operating time of the affected source during the reporting period;
(12) Records of the actual cumulative rectifier capacity of hard chromium electroplating tanks at a facility expended during each month of the reporting period, and the total capacity expended to date for a reporting period, if the owner or operator is using the actual cumulative rectifier capacity to determine facility size in accordance with § 63.342(c)(2);
(13) For sources using fume suppressants to comply with the standards, records of the date and time that fume suppressants are added to the electroplating or anodizing bath and records of the fume suppressant manufacturer and product name;
(14) For sources complying with § 63.342(e), records of the bath components purchased, with the wetting agent clearly identified as a bath constituent contained in one of the components;
(15) Any information demonstrating whether a source is meeting the requirements for a waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements, if the source has been granted a waiver under § 63.10(f); and
(16) All documentation supporting the notifications and reports required by § 63.9, § 63.10, and § 63.347.
(c) All records shall be maintained for a period of 5 years in accordance with § 63.10(b)(1).
[60 FR 4963, Jan. 25, 1995, as amended at 77 FR 58248, Sept. 19, 2012]
§ 63.347
Reporting requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of each affected source subject to these standards shall fulfill all reporting requirements outlined in this section and in the General Provisions to 40 CFR part 63, according to the applicability of subpart A as identified in Table 1 of this subpart. These reports shall be made to the Administrator at the appropriate address as identified in § 63.13 or to the delegated State authority.
(1) Reports required by subpart A of this part and this section may be sent by U.S. mail, fax, or by another courier.
(i) Submittals sent by U.S. mail shall be postmarked on or before the specified date.
(ii) Submittals sent by other methods shall be received by the Administrator on or before the specified date.
(2) If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of an affected source, reports may be submitted on electronic media.
(b) The reporting requirements of this section apply to the owner or operator of an affected source when such
source becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(c)
Initial notifications.
(1) The owner or operator of an affected source that has an initial startup before January 25, 1995, shall notify the Administrator in writing that the source is subject to this subpart. The notification shall be submitted no later than 180 calendar days after January 25, 1995, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, and shall contain the following information:
(i) The name, title, and address of the owner or operator;
(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of each affected source;
(iii) A statement that subpart N of this part is the basis for this notification;
(iv) Identification of the applicable emission limitation and compliance date for each affected source;
(v) A brief description of each affected source, including the type of process operation performed;
(vi) For sources performing hard chromium electroplating, the maximum potential cumulative potential rectifier capacity;
(vii) For sources performing hard chromium electroplating, a statement of whether the affected source(s) is located at a small or a large, hard chromium electroplating facility and whether this will be demonstrated through actual or maximum potential cumulative rectifier capacity;
(viii) For sources performing hard chromium electroplating, a statement of whether the owner or operator of an affected source(s) will limit the maximum potential cumulative rectifier capacity in accordance with § 63.342(c)(2) such that the hard chromium electroplating facility is considered small; and
(ix) A statement of whether the affected source is located at a major source or an area source as defined in § 63.2.
(2) The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source that has an initial startup after January 25, 1995 shall submit an initial notification (in addition to the notification of construction or reconstruction required by § 63.345(b) as follows:
(i) A notification of the date when construction or reconstruction was commenced, shall be submitted simultaneously with the notification of construction or reconstruction, if construction or reconstruction was commenced before January 25, 1995;
(ii) A notification of the date when construction or reconstruction was commenced, shall be submitted no later than 30 calendar days after such date, if construction or reconstruction was commenced after January 25, 1995; and
(iii) A notification of the actual date of startup of the source shall be submitted within 30 calendar days after such date.
(d)
Notification of performance test.
(1) The owner or operator of an affected source shall notify the Administrator in writing of his or her intention to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the test is scheduled to begin to allow the Administrator to have an observer present during the test. Observation of the performance test by the Administrator is optional.
(2) In the event the owner or operator is unable to conduct the performance test as scheduled, the provisions of § 63.7(b)(2) apply.
(e)
Notification of compliance status.
(1) A notification of compliance status is required each time that an affected source becomes subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(2) If the State in which the source is located has not been delegated the authority to implement the rule, each time a notification of compliance status is required under this part, the owner or operator of an affected source shall submit to the Administrator a notification of compliance status, signed by the responsible official (as defined in § 63.2) who shall certify its accuracy, attesting to whether the affected source has complied with this subpart. If the State has been delegated the authority, the notification of compliance status shall be submitted to the appropriate authority. The notification shall list for each affected source:
(i) The applicable emission limitation and the methods that were used to
determine compliance with this limitation;
(ii) If a performance test is required by this subpart, the test report documenting the results of the performance test, which contains the elements required by § 63.344(a), including measurements and calculations to support the special compliance provisions of § 63.344(e) if these are being followed;
(iii) The type and quantity of hazardous air pollutants emitted by the source reported in mg/dscm or mg/hr if the source is using the special provisions of § 63.344(e) to comply with the standards. (If the owner or operator is subject to the construction and reconstruction provisions of § 63.345 and had previously submitted emission estimates, the owner or operator shall state that this report corrects or verifies the previous estimate.) For sources not required to conduct a performance test in accordance with § 63.343(b), the surface tension measurement may fulfill this requirement;
(iv) For each monitored parameter for which a compliant value is to be established under § 63.343(c), the specific operating parameter value, or range of values, that corresponds to compliance with the applicable emission limit;
(v) The methods that will be used to determine continuous compliance, including a description of monitoring and reporting requirements, if methods differ from those identified in this subpart;
(vi) A description of the air pollution control technique for each emission point;
(vii) A statement that the owner or operator has completed and has on file the operation and maintenance plan as required by the work practice standards in § 63.342(f);
(viii) If the owner or operator is determining facility size based on actual cumulative rectifier capacity in accordance with § 63.342(c)(2), records to support that the facility is small. For existing sources, records from any 12-month period preceding the compliance date shall be used or a description of how operations will change to meet a small designation shall be provided. For new sources, records of projected rectifier capacity for the first 12-month period of tank operation shall be used;
(ix) A statement by the owner or operator of the affected source as to whether the source has complied with the provisions of this subpart.
(3) For sources required to conduct a performance test by § 63.343(b), the notification of compliance status shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 90 calendar days following completion of the compliance demonstration required by § 63.7 and § 63.343(b).
(4) For sources that are not required to complete a performance test in accordance with § 63.343(b), the notification of compliance status shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 30 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.343(a), except the date on which sources in California shall monitor the surface tension of the anodizing bath is extended to January 25, 1998.
(f)
Reports of performance test results.
(1) If the State in which the source is located has not been delegated the authority to implement the rule, the owner or operator of an affected source shall report to the Administrator the results of any performance test conducted as required by § 63.7 or § 63.343(b). If the State has been delegated the authority, the owner or operator of an affected source should report performance test results to the appropriate authority.
(2) Reports of performance test results shall be submitted no later than 90 days following the completion of the performance test, and shall be submitted as part of the notification of compliance status required by paragraph (e) of this section.
(3)(i) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (defined in § 63.2) as required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance tests, including any associated fuel analyses, required by this subpart to the EPA's WebFIRE database by using the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
www.epa.gov/cdx
). Performance test data must be submitted in the file format generated through use of the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (see
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/
index.html
). Only data collected using test methods on the ERT Web site are subject to this requirement for submitting reports electronically to WebFIRE. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI) must submit a complete ERT file including information claimed to be CBI on a compact disk, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. At the discretion of the delegated authority, you must also submit these reports, including the confidential business information, to the delegated authority in the format specified by the delegated authority. For any performance test conducted using test methods that are not listed on the ERT Web site, the owner or operator shall submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.
(g)
Ongoing compliance status reports for major sources.
(1) The owner or operator of an affected source that is located at a major source site shall submit a summary report to the Administrator to document the ongoing compliance status of the affected source. The report shall contain the information identified in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, and shall be submitted semiannually except when:
(i) The Administrator determines on a case-by-case basis that more frequent reporting is necessary to accurately assess the compliance status of the source; or
(ii) The monitoring data collected by the owner or operator of the affected source in accordance with § 63.343(c) show that the emission limit has been exceeded, in which case quarterly reports shall be submitted. Once an owner or operator of an affected source reports an exceedance, ongoing compliance status reports shall be submitted quarterly until a request to reduce reporting frequency under paragraph (g)(2) of this section is approved.
(2)
Request to reduce frequency of ongoing compliance status reports.
(i) An owner or operator who is required to submit ongoing compliance status reports on a quarterly (or more frequent basis) may reduce the frequency of reporting to semiannual if all of the following conditions are met:
(A) For 1 full year (e.g., 4 quarterly or 12 monthly reporting periods), the ongoing compliance status reports demonstrate that the affected source is in compliance with the relevant emission limit;
(B) The owner or operator continues to comply with all applicable recordkeeping and monitoring requirements of subpart A of this part and this subpart; and
(C) The Administrator does not object to a reduced reporting frequency for the affected source, as provided in paragraphs (g)(2) (ii) and (iii) of this section.
(ii) The frequency of submitting ongoing compliance status reports may be reduced only after the owner or operator notifies the Administrator in writing of his or her intention to make such a change, and the Administrator does not object to the intended change. In deciding whether to approve a reduced reporting frequency, the Administrator may review information concerning the source's entire previous performance history during the 5-year recordkeeping period prior to the intended change, or the recordkeeping period since the source's compliance date, whichever is shorter. Records subject to review may include performance test results, monitoring data, and evaluations of an owner or operator's conformance with emission limitations and work practice standards. Such information may be used by the Administrator to make a judgment about the source's potential for noncompliance in the future. If the Administrator disapproves the owner or operator's request to reduce reporting frequency, the Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing within 45 days after receiving notice of the owner or operator's intention. The notification from the Administrator to the owner or operator will specify the
grounds on which the disapproval is based. In the absence of a notice of disapproval within 45 days, approval is automatically granted.
(iii) As soon as the monitoring data required by § 63.343(c) show that the source is not in compliance with the relevant emission limit, the frequency of reporting shall revert to quarterly, and the owner shall state this exceedance in the ongoing compliance status report for the next reporting period. After demonstrating ongoing compliance with the relevant emission limit for another full year, the owner or operator may again request approval from the Administrator to reduce the reporting frequency as allowed by paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(3)
Contents of ongoing compliance status reports.
The owner or operator of an affected source for which compliance monitoring is required in accordance with § 63.343(c) shall prepare a summary report to document the ongoing compliance status of the source. The report must contain the following information:
(i) The company name and address of the affected source;
(ii) An identification of the operating parameter that is monitored for compliance determination, as required by § 63.343(c);
(iii) The relevant emission limitation for the affected source, and the operating parameter value, or range of values, that correspond to compliance with this emission limitation as specified in the notification of compliance status required by paragraph (e) of this section;
(iv) The beginning and ending dates of the reporting period;
(v) A description of the type of process performed in the affected source;
(vi) The total operating time of the affected source during the reporting period;
(vii) If the affected source is a hard chromium electroplating tank and the owner or operator is limiting the maximum cumulative rectifier capacity in accordance with § 63.342(c)(2), the actual cumulative rectifier capacity expended during the reporting period, on a month-by-month basis;
(viii) A summary of operating parameter values, including the total duration of excess emissions during the reporting period as indicated by those values, the total duration of excess emissions expressed as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period, and a breakdown of the total duration of excess emissions during the reporting period into those that are due to process upsets, control equipment malfunctions, other known causes, and unknown causes;
(ix) A certification by a responsible official, as defined in § 63.2, that the work practice standards in § 63.342(f) were followed in accordance with the operation and maintenance plan for the source;
(x) If the operation and maintenance plan required by § 63.342(f)(3) was not followed, an explanation of the reasons for not following the provisions, an assessment of whether any excess emission and/or parameter monitoring exceedances are believed to have occurred, and a copy of the report(s) required by § 63.342(f)(3)(iv) documenting that the operation and maintenance plan was not followed;
(xi) A description of any changes in monitoring, processes, or controls since the last reporting period;
(xii) The number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.342(a)(1), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.
(xiii) The name, title, and signature of the responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report; and
(xiv) The date of the report.
(4) When more than one monitoring device is used to comply with the continuous compliance monitoring required by § 63.343(c), the owner or operator shall report the results as required for each monitoring device. However, when one monitoring device is used as a backup for the primary monitoring device, the owner or operator shall only report the results from the monitoring device used to meet the monitoring requirements of this subpart. If
both devices are used to meet these requirements, then the owner or operator shall report the results from each monitoring device for the relevant compliance period.
(h)
Ongoing compliance status reports for area sources.
The requirements of this paragraph do not alleviate affected area sources from complying with the requirements of State or Federal operating permit programs under 40 CFR part 71.
(1) The owner or operator of an affected source that is located at an area source site shall prepare a summary report to document the ongoing compliance status of the affected source. The report shall contain the information identified in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, shall be completed annually and retained on site, and made available to the Administrator upon request. The report shall be completed annually except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(2)
Reports of exceedances.
(i) If either of the following conditions is met, semiannual reports shall be prepared and submitted to the Administrator:
(A) The total duration of excess emissions (as indicated by the monitoring data collected by the owner or operator of the affected source in accordance with § 63.343(c)) is 1 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period; or
(B) The total duration of malfunctions of the add-on air pollution control device and monitoring equipment is 5 percent or greater of the total operating time.
(ii) Once an owner or operator of an affected source reports an exceedance as defined in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section, ongoing compliance status reports shall be submitted semiannually until a request to reduce reporting frequency under paragraph (h)(3) of this section is approved.
(iii) The Administrator may determine on a case-by-case basis that the summary report shall be completed more frequently and submitted, or that the annual report shall be submitted instead of being retained on site, if these measures are necessary to accurately assess the compliance status of the source.
(3)
Request to reduce frequency of ongoing compliance status reports.
(i) An owner or operator who is required to submit ongoing compliance status reports on a semiannual (or more frequent) basis, or is required to submit its annual report instead of retaining it on site, may reduce the frequency of reporting to annual and/or be allowed to maintain the annual report onsite if all of the following conditions are met:
(A) For 1 full year (e.g., 2 semiannual or 4 quarterly reporting periods), the ongoing compliance status reports demonstrate that the affected source is in compliance with the relevant emission limit;
(B) The owner or operator continues to comply with all applicable recordkeeping and monitoring requirements of subpart A of this part and this subpart; and
(C) The Administrator does not object to a reduced reporting frequency for the affected source, as provided in paragraphs (h)(3) (ii) and (iii) of this section.
(ii) The frequency of submitting ongoing compliance status reports may be reduced only after the owner or operator notifies the Administrator in writing of his or her intention to make such a change, and the Administrator does not object to the intended change. In deciding whether to approve a reduced reporting frequency, the Administrator may review information concerning the source's previous performance history during the 5-year recordkeeping period prior to the intended change, or the recordkeeping period since the source's compliance date, whichever is shorter. Records subject to review may include performance test results, monitoring data, and evaluations of an owner or operator's conformance with emission limitations and work practice standards. Such information may be used by the Administrator to make a judgement about the source's potential for noncompliance in the future. If the Administrator disapproves the owner or operator's request to reduce reporting frequency, the Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing within 45 days after receiving notice of the owner or operator's intention. The notification from the Administrator to
the owner or operator will specify the grounds on which the disapproval is based. In the absence of a notice of disapproval within 45 days, approval is automatically granted.
(iii) As soon as the monitoring data required by § 63.343(c) show that the source is not in compliance with the relevant emission limit, the frequency of reporting shall revert to semiannual, and the owner shall state this exceedance in the ongoing compliance status report for the next reporting period. After demonstrating ongoing compliance with the relevant emission limit for another full year, the owner or operator may again request approval from the Administrator to reduce the reporting frequency as allowed by paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(i)
Reports associated with trivalent chromium baths.
The requirements of this paragraph do not alleviate affected sources from complying with the requirements of State or Federal operating permit programs under title V. Owners or operators complying with the provisions of § 63.342(e) are not subject to paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section, but must instead submit the following reports:
(1) Within 180 days after January 25, 1995, submit an initial notification that includes:
(i) The same information as is required by paragraphs (c)(1) (i) through (v) of this section; and
(ii) A statement that a trivalent chromium process that incorporates a wetting agent will be used to comply with § 63.342(e); and
(iii) The list of bath components that comprise the trivalent chromium bath, with the wetting agent clearly identified; and
(2) Within 30 days of the compliance date specified in § 63.343(a), a notification of compliance status that contains an update of the information submitted in accordance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section or a statement that the information is still accurate; and
(3) Within 30 days of a change to the trivalent chromium electroplating process, a report that includes:
(i) A description of the manner in which the process has been changed and the emission limitation, if any, now applicable to the affected source;
(ii) If a different emission limitation applies, the applicable information required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and
(iii) The notification and reporting requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) of this section, which shall be submitted in accordance with the schedules identified in those paragraphs.
[60 FR 4963, Jan. 25, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 27787, June 3, 1996; 62 FR 4465, Jan. 30, 1997, 62 FR 42921, Aug. 11, 1997; 69 FR 42897, July 19, 2004; 77 FR 58248, Sept. 19, 2012; 85 FR 73888, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.348
Implementation and enforcement.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.340, 63.342(a) through (e) and (g), and 63.343(a).
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under
§ 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
[68 FR 37347, June 23, 2003]
Pt. 63, Subpt. N, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart N of Part 63—General Provisions Applicability to Subpart N
General provisions
reference
Applies to subpart N
Comment
63.1(a)(1)
Yes
Additional terms defined in § 63.341; when overlap between subparts A and N occurs, subpart N takes precedence.
63.1(a)(2)
Yes
63.1(a)(3)
Yes
63.1(a)(4)
Yes
Subpart N clarifies the applicability of each paragraph in subpart A to sources subject to subpart N.
63.1(a)(5)
No
[Reserved]
63.1(a)(6)
Yes
63.1(a)(7)-(9)
No
[Reserved]
63.1(a)(10)
Yes
63.1(a)(11)
Yes
§ 63.347(a) of subpart N also allows report submissions via fax and on electronic media.
63.1(a)(12)
Yes
63.1(b)(1)
No
§ 63.340 of subpart N specifies applicability.
63.1(b)(2)
No
[Reserved]
63.1(b)(3)
No
This provision in subpart A is being deleted. Also, all affected area and major sources are subject to subpart N; there are no exemptions.
63.1(c)(1)
Yes
Subpart N clarifies the applicability of each paragraph in subpart A to sources subject to subpart N.
63.1(c)(2)
Yes
§ 63.340(e) of Subpart N exempts area sources from the obligation to obtain Title V operating permits.
63.1(c)(3)-(4)
No
[Reserved]
63.1(c)(5)
No
Subpart N clarifies that an area source that becomes a major source is subject to the requirements for major sources.
63.1(c)(6)
Yes
63.1(e)
Yes
63.2
Yes
Additional terms defined in § 63.341; when overlap between subparts A and N occurs, subpart N takes precedence.
63.3
Yes
Other units used in subpart N are defined in that subpart.
63.4(a)(1)-(2)
Yes
63.4(a)(3)-(5)
No
[Reserved]
63.4(b)-(c)
Yes
63.5(a)
Yes
Except replace the term “source” and “stationary source” in § 63.5(a) (1) and (2) of subpart A with “affected sources.”
63.5(b)(1)
Yes
63.5(b)(2)
No
[Reserved]
63.5(b)(3)
Yes
Applies only to major affected sources.
63.5(b)(4)
No
Subpart N (§ 63.345) specifies requirements for the notification of construction or reconstruction for affected sources that are not major.
63.5(b)(5)
No
[Reserved]
63.5(b)(6)
Yes
63.5(c)
No
[Reserved]
63.5(d)(1)(i)
No
§ 63.345(c)(5) of subpart N specifies when the application or notification shall be submitted.
63.5(d)(1)(ii)
Yes
Applies to major affected sources that are new or reconstructed.
63.5(d)(1)(iii)
Yes
Except information should be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.347(e) of subpart N.
63.5(d)(2)
Yes
Applies to major affected sources that are new or reconstructed except: (1) replace “source” in § 63.5(d)(2) of subpart A with “affected source”; and (2) actual control efficiencies are submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.347(e).
63.5(d)(3)-(4)
Yes
Applies to major affected sources that are new or reconstructed.
63.5(e)
Yes
Applies to major affected sources that are new or reconstructed.
63.5(f)(1)
Yes
Except replace “source” in § 63.5(f)(1) of subpart A with “affected source.”
63.5(f)(2)
No
New or reconstructed affected sources shall submit the request for approval of construction or reconstruction under § 63.5(f) of subpart A by the deadline specified in § 63.345(c)(5) of subpart N.
63.6(a)
Yes
63.6(b)(1)-(2)
Yes
Except replace “source” in § 63.6(b)(1)-(2) of part A with “affected source.”
63.6(b)(3)-(4)
Yes
63.6(b)(5)
Yes
Except replace “source” in § 63.6(b)(5) of subpart A with “affected source.”
63.6(b)(7)
No
Provisions for new area sources that become major sources are contained in § 63.343(a)(4) of subpart N.
63.6(c)(1)-(2)
Yes
Except replace “source” in § 63.6(c)(1)-(2) of subpart A with “affected source.”
63.6(c)(3)-(4)
No
[Reserved]
63.6(c)(5)
No
Compliance provisions for existing area sources that become major sources are contained in § 63.343(a)(3) of subpart N.
63.6(d)
No
[Reserved]
63.6(e)(1)-(3)
No
§ 63.342(f) of subpart N contains work practice standards (operation and maintenance requirements) that override these provisions.
63.6(f)(1)
No
§ 63.342(b) of subpart N specifies when the standards apply.
63.6(f)(2)(i)-(ii)
Yes
63.6(f)(2)(iii)
No
§ 63.344(b) of subpart N specifies instances in which previous performance test results for existing sources are acceptable.
63.6(f)(2)(iv)
Yes
63.6(f)(2)(v)
Yes
63.6(f)(3)
Yes
63.6(g)
Yes
63.6(h)(1)
No
SSM Exception
63.6(h)(2)
No
Subpart N does not contain any opacity or visible emission standards.
63.6(i)(1)
Yes
63.6(i)(2)
Yes
Except replace “source” in § 63.6(i)(2)(i) and (ii) of subpart A with “affected source.”
63.6(i)(3)
Yes
63.6(i)(4)(i)
No
§ 63.343(a)(6) of subpart N specifies the procedures for obtaining an extension of compliance and the date by which such requests must be submitted.
63.6(i)(4)(ii)
Yes
63.6(i)(5)
Yes
63.6(i)(6)(i)
Yes
This paragraph only references “paragraph (i)(4) of this section” for compliance extension provisions. But, § 63.343(a)(6) of subpart N also contains provisions for requesting a compliance extension.
63.6(i)(6)(ii)
Yes
63.6(i)(7)
Yes
63.6(i)(8)
Yes
This paragraph only references “paragraphs (i)(4) through (i)(6) of this section” for compliance extension provisions. But, § 63.343(a)(6) of subpart N also contains provisions for requesting a compliance extension.
63.6(i)(9)
Yes
This paragraph only references “paragraphs (i)(4) through (i)(6) of this section” and “paragraphs (i)(4) and (i)(5) of this section” for compliance extension provisions. But, § 63.343(a)(6) of subpart N also contains provisions for requesting a compliance extension.
63.6(i)(10)(i)-(iv)
Yes
63.6(i)(10)(v)(A)
Yes
This paragraph only references “paragraph (i)(4)” for compliance extension provisions. But, § 63.343(a)(6) of subpart N also contains provisions for requesting a compliance extension.
63.6(i)(10)(v)(B)
Yes
63.6(i)(11)
Yes
63.6(i)(12)(i)
Yes
This paragraph only references “paragraph (i)(4)(i) or (i)(5) of this section” for compliance extension provisions. But, § 63.343(a)(6) of subpart N also contains provisions for requesting a compliance extension.
63.6(i)(12)(ii)-(iii)
Yes
63.6(i)(13)
Yes
63.6(i)(14)
Yes
63.6(i)(15)
No
[Reserved]
63.6(i)(16)
Yes
63.6(j)
Yes
63.7(a)(1)
Yes
63.7(a)(2)(i)-(viii)
No
[Reserved]
63.7(a)(2)(ix)
Yes
63.7(a)(3)
Yes
63.7(a)(4)
Yes
63.7(b)(1)
No
§ 63.347(d) of subpart N requires notification prior to the performance test. § 63.344(a) of subpart N requires submission of a site-specific test plan upon request.
63.7(b)(2)
Yes
63.7(c)
No
§ 63.344(a) of subpart N specifies what the test plan should contain, but does not require test plan approval or performance audit samples.
63.7(d)
Yes
Except replace “source” in the first sentence of § 63.7(d) of subpart A with “affected source.”
63.7(e)(1)
No
See § 63.344(a). Any cross reference to § 63.7(e)(1) in any other general provision incorporated by reference shall be treated as a cross-reference to § 63.344(a).
63.7(e)(2)-(4)
Yes
Subpart N also contains test methods specific to affected sources covered by that subpart.
63.7(f)
Yes
§ 63.344(c)(2) of subpart N identifies CARB Method 425 as acceptable under certain conditions.
63.7(g)(1)
No
Subpart N identifies the items to be reported in the compliance test [§ 63.344(a)] and the timeframe for submitting the results [§ 63.347(f)].
63.7(g)(2)
No
[Reserved]
63.7(g)(3)
Yes
63.7(h)(1)-(2)
Yes
63.7(h)(3)(i)
Yes
This paragraph only references “§ 63.6(i)” for compliance extension provisions. But, § 63.343(a)(6) of subpart N also contains provisions for requesting a compliance extension.
63.7(h)(3)(ii)-(iii)
Yes
63.7(h)(4)-(5)
Yes
63.8(a)(1)
Yes
63.8(a)(2)
No
Work practice standards are contained in § 63.342(f) of subpart N.
63.8(a)(3)
No
[Reserved]
63.8(a)(4)
No
63.8(b)(1)
Yes
63.8(b)(2)
No
§ 63.344(d) of subpart N specifies the monitoring location when there are multiple sources.
63.9(b)(3)
No
[Reserved]
63.8(c)(1)(i)
No
Subpart N requires proper maintenance of monitoring devices expected to be used by sources subject to subpart N.
63.8(c)(1)(ii)
No
§ 63.342(f)(3)(iv) of subpart N specifies reporting when the O
M plan is not followed.
63.8(c)(1)(iii)
No
§ 63.343(f)(2) identifies the criteria for whether O
M procedures are acceptable.
63.8(c)(2)-(3)
No
§ 63.344(d)(2) requires appropriate use of monitoring devices.
63.8(c)(4)-(7)
No
63.8(d)
No
Maintenance of monitoring devices is required by §§ 63.342(f) and 63.344(d)(2) of subpart N.
63.8(e)
No
There are no performance evaluation procedures for the monitoring devices expected to be used to comply with subpart N.
63.8(f)(1)
Yes
63.8(f)(2)
No
Instances in which the Administrator may approve alternatives to the monitoring methods and procedures of subpart N are contained in § 63.343(c)(8) of subpart N.
63.8(f)(3)
Yes
63.8(f)(4)
Yes
63.8(f)(5)
Yes
63.8(f)(6)
No
Subpart N does not require the use of CEM's.
63.8(g)
No
Monitoring data does not need to be reduced for reporting purposes because subpart N requires measurement once/day.
63.9(a)
Yes
63.9(b)(1)(i)-(ii)
No
§ 63.343(a)(3) of subpart N requires area sources to comply with major source provisions if an increase in HAP emissions causes them to become major sources.
63.9(b)(1)(iii)
No
§ 63.347(c)(2) of subpart N specifies initial notification requirements for new or reconstructed affected sources.
63.9(b)(2)
No
§ 63.347(c)(1) of subpart N specifies the information to be contained in the initial notification.
63.9(b)(3)
No
§ 63.347(c)(2) of subpart N specifies notification requirements for new or reconstructed sources that are not major affected sources.
63.9(b)(4)
No
63.9(b)(5)
No
63.9(c)
Yes
This paragraph only references “§ 63.6(i)(4) through § 63.6(i)(6)” for compliance extension provisions. But, § 63.343(a)(6) of subpart N also contains provisions for requesting a compliance extension. Subpart N provides a different timeframe for submitting the request than § 63.6(i)(4).
63.9(d)
Yes
This paragraph only references “the notification dates established in paragraph (g) of this section.” But, § 63.347 of subpart N also contains notification dates.
63.9(e)
No
Notification of performance test is required by § 63.347(d) of subpart N.
63.9(f)
No
63.9(g)
No
Subpart N does not require a performance evaluation or relative accuracy test for monitoring devices.
63.9(h)(1)-(3)
No
§ 63.347(e) of subpart N specifies information to be contained in the notification of compliance status and the timeframe for submitting this information.
63.9(h)(4)
No
[Reserved]
63.9(h)(5)
No
Similar language has been incorporated into § 63.347(e)(2)(iii) of subpart N.
63.9(h)(6)
Yes
63.9(i)
Yes
63.9(j)
Yes
63.9(k)
Yes
Only as specified in § 63.9(j).
63.10(a)
Yes
63.10(b)(1)
Yes
63.10(b)(2)
No
§ 63.346(b) of subpart N specifies the records that must be maintained.
63.10(b)(3)
No
Subpart N applies to major and area sources.
63.10(c)
No
Applicable requirements of § 63.10(c) have been incorporated into § 63.346(b) of subpart N.
63.10(d)(1)
Yes
63.10(d)(2)
No
§ 63.347(f) of subpart N specifies the timeframe for reporting performance test results.
63.10(d)(3)
No
Subpart N does not contain opacity or visible emissions standards.
63.10(d)(4)
Yes
63.10(d)(5)
No
§ 63.342(f)(3)(iv) and § 63.347(g)(3) of subpart N specify reporting associated with malfunctions.
63.10(e)
No
§ 63.347(g) and (h) of subpart N specify the frequency of periodic reports of monitoring data used to establish compliance. Applicable requirements of § 63.10(e) have been incorporated into § 63.347(g) and (h).
63.10(f)
Yes
63.11
No
Flares will not be used to comply with the emission limits.
63.12-63.15
Yes
[60 FR 4963, Jan. 25, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 27787, June 3, 1996; 70 FR 75345, Dec. 19, 2005; 77 FR 58248, Sept. 19, 2012; 85 FR 73889, Nov. 19, 2020]

# Subpart O—Ethylene Oxide Emissions Standards for Sterilization Facilities

# Source:
89 FR 24172, Apr. 5, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.360
Applicability.
(a) You are subject to the requirements of this subpart if you own or operate a sterilization facility that has an affected source specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Table 6 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.15 apply to you.
(b) The affected sources subject to this subpart are:
(1) Each SCV at any sterilization facility;
(2) Each ARV at any sterilization facility;
(3) Each CEV at any sterilization facility;
(4) The collection of all Group 1 room air emissions at any sterilization facility; and
(5) The collection of all Group 2 room air emissions at any sterilization facility.
(c) An existing affected source is one the construction or reconstruction of which was commenced on or before April 13, 2023.
(d) A new affected source is one the construction or reconstruction of which is commenced after April 13, 2023.
(e) An SCV, ARV, or CEV is reconstructed if you meet the reconstruction criteria as defined in § 63.2, and if you commence reconstruction after April 13, 2023.
(f) This subpart does not apply to beehive fumigators.
(g) This subpart does not apply to research or laboratory facilities as defined in section 112(c)(7) of title III of the Clean Air Act Amendment of 1990.
(h) This subpart does not apply to EtO sterilization operations at stationary sources such as hospitals, doctor's offices, clinics, or other facilities whose primary purpose is to provide medical or dental services to humans or animals.
(i) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
(j) You must comply with the provisions of this subpart no later than the dates specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (17) of this section:
(1) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must comply with the applicable provisions of this subpart no later than the dates specified in tables 1 through 5 to this subpart, as applicable.
(2) If you own or operate a new affected source, and the initial startup of your affected source is on or before April 5, 2024, you must comply with the provisions of this subpart no later than April 5, 2024.
(3) If you own or operate a new affected source, and the initial startup is after April 5, 2024, you must comply with the provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.
(4) If existing SCV, ARV, or CEV or parts of an existing collection of Group 1 or Group 2 room air emissions are replaced such that the replacement meets the definition of reconstruction in § 63.2 and the reconstruction commenced after April 13, 2023, then the existing affected source becomes a new affected source. The reconstructed source must comply with the requirements for a new affected source upon initial startup of the reconstructed source or by April 5, 2024, whichever is later.
(5) All existing SCVs at facilities that meet or exceed 1 tpy of EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 7, 2025, that increase their EtO use after April 6, 2026, such that the SCV becomes subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming subject to the more stringent emission standard.
(6) All existing SCVs at facilities that do not exceed 1 tpy of EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 6, 2026, that increase their EtO use thereafter, such that the SCV becomes subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming subject to the more stringent emission standard.
(7) All new SCVs at facilities that increase their EtO use over a year after startup such that the SCV becomes subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming subject to the more stringent emission standard.
(8) All existing ARVs at facilities that meet or exceed 10 tpy of EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 7, 2025, that increase their EtO use after April 6, 2026, such that the ARV becomes subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming subject to the more stringent emission standard.
(9) All existing ARVs at facilities that do not exceed 10 tpy of EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 6, 2026, that increase their EtO use after thereafter, such that the ARV becomes subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming subject to the more stringent emission standard.
(10) All new ARVs at facilities that increase their EtO use over a year after startup such that the ARV becomes subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming subject to the more stringent emission standard.
(11) All existing CEVs at facilities that do not exceed 60 tpy of EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 6, 2026, that increase their EtO use thereafter, such that the CEV becomes subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming subject to the more stringent emission standard.
(12) All new CEVs at facilities that increase their EtO use over a year after startup such that the CEV becomes subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming
subject to the more stringent emission standard.
(13) All existing collections of Group 1 room air emissions at facilities that do not exceed 40 tpy of EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 6, 2026, that increase their EtO use thereafter, such that the collection of Group 1 room air emissions becomes subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming subject to the more stringent emission standard.
(14) All new Group 1 room air emissions at facilities that increase their EtO use over a year after startup such that the Group 1 room air emissions become subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming subject to the more stringent emission standard.
(15) All existing collections of Group 2 room air emissions at facilities that meet or exceed 4 tpy of EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 7, 2025, that increase their EtO use after April 6, 2026, such that the collection of Group 2 room air emissions becomes subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming subject to the more stringent emission standard.
(16) All existing collections of Group 2 room air emissions at facilities that do not exceed 4 tpy of EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 6, 2026, that increase their EtO use thereafter, such that the collection of Group 2 room air emissions becomes subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming subject to the more stringent emission standard.
(17) All new Group 2 room air emissions at facilities that increase their EtO use over a year after startup such that the Group 2 room air emissions become subject to a more stringent emission standard, immediately upon becoming subject to the more stringent emission standard.
§ 63.361
Definitions.
Terms and nomenclature used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act (the Act) as amended in 1990, §§ 63.2 and 63.3, or in this section. For the purposes of this subpart, if the same term is defined in subpart A of this part and in this section, it shall have the meaning given in this section.
Acid-water scrubber
means an add-on air pollution control device that uses an aqueous or alkaline scrubbing liquor to absorb and neutralize acid gases.
Aeration
means, for the purposes of this rule, exposing sterilized material at elevated temperatures to drive EtO out of the material.
Aeration room
means any vessel or room that is used to facilitate off-gassing of EtO at a sterilization facility. If a facility uses only combination sterilization units, for the purposes of this rule, there are no aeration rooms at the facility.
Aeration room vent (ARV)
means the point(s) through which the evacuation of EtO-laden air from an aeration room occurs. For combination sterilization units, there is no ARV.
Catalytic oxidizer
means a combustion device that uses a solid-phase catalyst to lower the temperature required to promote the oxidization and achieve adequate reduction of volatile organic compounds, as well as volatile hazardous air pollutants.
Chamber exhaust vent (CEV)
means the point(s) through which EtO-laden air is removed from the sterilization chamber during chamber unloading following the completion of sterilization and associated air washes. This may also be referred to as a “backvent” (or “back vent”). For combination sterilization units, there is no CEV.
Combination sterilization unit
means any enclosed vessel in which both sterilization and aeration of the same product occur within the same vessel,
i.e.,
the vessel is filled with ethylene oxide gas or an ethylene oxide/inert gas mixture for the purpose of sterilizing and is followed by aeration of ethylene oxide.
Combined emission stream
means when the emissions from more than one emission source are routed together using common ductwork prior to the control system.
Continuous monitoring system (CMS)
means, for the purposes of this rule, the equipment necessary to continuously samples the regulated parameter specified in § 63.364 or § 63.365 of this subpart without interruption, evaluates the detector response at least once
every 15 seconds, and computes and records the average value at least every 60 seconds, except during allowable periods of calibration and except as defined otherwise by the continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) performance specifications (PS) in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.
Control System Residence Time
means the time elapsed from entrance of flow into the control system until gaseous materials exit the control system. For control systems with multiple exhaust streams whereby the residence time may vary for the streams, the residence time for purposes of complying with this subpart means the longest residence time for any exhaust stream in use. If a peak shaver is used, it is part of the control system, and its residence time must be considered.
Deviation
means any instance in which an owner or operator of an affected source, subject to this subpart:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to, any emission limitation, parameter value, or best management practice; or
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart or that is included in the operating permit for any facility required to obtain such a permit.
EtO dispensing
means charging a sterilization chamber or chambers with EtO from non-cartridge storage media (
e.g.,
drums, cylinders) via the use of piping, lines, and other equipment. This includes injection rooms and post-injection handling of containers.
Gas/solid reactor
means an add-on air pollution control device that uses a dry, solid-phase system to chemically convert EtO so that it becomes bound to the solid packing. This may also be referred to as a “dry bed reactor” or a “dry bed scrubber.”
Group 1 room air emissions
mean emissions from indoor EtO storage, EtO dispensing, vacuum pump operations, and pre-aeration handling of sterilized material.
Group 2 room air emissions
mean emissions from post-aeration handling of sterilized material.
Indoor EtO storage
means the storage of EtO within non-cartridge media (
e.g.,
drums, cylinders) inside a sterilization building.
Initial startup
means the moment when an affected source subject to an emissions standard in § 63.362 first begins operation.
Injection room
means any room where EtO is injected into containers (
e.g.,
bags, pouches) that are filled with product to be sterilized.
Maximum ethylene glycol concentration
means the concentration of ethylene glycol in the scrubber liquor of an acid-water scrubber control device established during a performance test when the scrubber achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.
Maximum gas/solid reactor pressure drop
means the pressure drop of the gas/solid reactor established during a performance test when the gas/solid reactor achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.
Maximum liquor tank level
means the level of scrubber liquor in the acid-water scrubber liquor recirculation tank established during a performance test when the scrubber achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.
Maximum scrubber liquor pH
means the pH of the acid-water scrubber liquor established during a performance test when the scrubber achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.
Minimum stack volumetric flow rate
means the stack volumetric flow rate corrected established during a compliance demonstration when permanent total enclosure (PTE) requirements are met.
Minimum temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed
means the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed established during a performance test when the catalytic oxidizer achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.
Minimum temperature difference across the catalyst bed
means the temperature difference across the catalyst bed established during a performance test when the catalytic oxidizer achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.
Minimum temperature in or immediately downstream of the firebox
means the
temperature in or immediately downstream of the firebox established during a performance test when the thermal oxidizer achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.
Natural draft opening (NDO)
means any permanent opening in the enclosure that remains open during operation of the facility and is not connected to a duct in which a fan is installed.
Operating day
means any day that a facility is engaged in a sterilization operation.
Peak shaver
means a device that is used to reduce high EtO concentrations within an exhaust stream such that the downstream control device is not overwhelmed.
Permanent total enclosure (PTE)
means a permanently installed enclosure that meets the criteria of Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE. A PTE completely surrounds a source of emissions such that all EtO emissions are captured, contained, and directed to a control system or to an outlet(s).
Post-aeration handling of sterilized material
means the storage and transportation of material that has been removed from aeration but has not been placed in a vehicle for the sole purpose of distribution to another facility. Post-aeration handling of sterilized material ends when that vehicle is closed for the final time before leaving the facility. This definition does not include handling of material that has been both previously sterilized and not removed from aeration following re-sterilization.
Post-injection handling of containers
means the storage and transportation of containers (
e.g.,
bags, pouches) that have been injected with EtO but have not been placed in a sterilization chamber.
Pre-aeration handling of sterilized material
means the storage and transportation of material that has been removed from a sterilization chamber but has not been placed in an aeration room. If only combination sterilization units are used, and if material is not moved out of the vessel between sterilization and aeration, then emissions from this source do not exist. This does not include post-injection handling of containers.
Rolling sum
means the weighted sum of all data, meeting QA/QC requirements or otherwise normalized, collected during the applicable rolling time period. The period of a rolling sum stipulates the frequency of data collection, summing, and reporting. As an example, to demonstrate compliance with a rolling 30-operating day sum emission reduction standard determined from hourly data, you must (1) determine the total mass of ethylene oxide prior to control and following control for each operating day; (2) then sum the current daily total mass prior to control with the previous 29 operating day total mass values and repeat the same process for the current daily total mass following control; and (3) then divide the 30-operating day total mass emissions following control by the 30-operating day total mass prior to control and subtract the resulting value from one to obtain the 30-operating day emission reduction achieved.
Single-item sterilization
means a process in which one or more items are placed in a pouch, EtO is injected into the pouch, and the sealed pouch is placed in a vessel to allow sterilization to occur.
Sterilization chamber
means any enclosed vessel or room that is filled with EtO gas, or an EtO/inert gas mixture, for the purpose of sterilizing and/or fumigating at a sterilization facility. This does not include injection rooms.
Sterilization chamber vent (SCV)
means the point (prior to the vacuum pump) through which the evacuation of EtO from the sterilization chamber occurs following sterilization or fumigation, including any subsequent air washes.
Sterilization facility
means any stationary source where EtO is used in the sterilization or fumigation of materials, including but not limited to facilities that engage in single-item sterilization.
Sterilization operation
means any time when EtO is removed from the sterilization chamber through the SCV or the chamber exhaust vent, when EtO is removed from the aeration room through the aeration room vent, when EtO is stored within the building, when EtO is dispensed from a container to a chamber, when material is moved from
sterilization to aeration, or when materials are handled post-aeration.
Thermal oxidizer
means all combustion devices except flares.
Vacuum pump operation
means the operation of vacuum pumps, excluding dry seal vacuum pumps, for the purpose of removing EtO from a sterilization chamber.
§ 63.362
Standards.
(a)
Compliance date.
If you own or operate an affected source, you must comply with the applicable requirement by the compliance date specified in § 63.360(j). The standards of this section are summarized in tables 1 through 5 to this subpart.
(b)
Applicability of standards.
The standards in paragraphs (c) through (k) of this section apply at all times. If using EtO CEMS to determine compliance with an applicable standard, this compliance demonstration is based on the previous 30-operating days of data. If using EtO CEMS to determine compliance with an applicable emission reduction standard in paragraphs (c) through (g) and (i) of this section for each operating day, you must determine the total inlet mass to and outlet mass from the control system using the procedures laid out in § 63.364(f) and appendix A to this subpart, and you must maintain the emission limit based on the inlet mass and the applicable emission reduction standard. If using EtO CEMS to determine compliance with an applicable emission reduction standard in paragraph (j) of this section, you must continuously comply with the requirements of that paragraph.
(c)
SCV.
You must comply with each applicable standard in table 1 to this subpart, and you must meet each applicable requirement specified in § 63.363. If a SCV is combined with a stream from another emission source, you must comply with the appropriate emission standard as prescribed in paragraph (i) of this section.
(d)
ARV.
You must comply with each applicable standard in table 2 to this subpart, and you must meet each applicable requirement specified in § 63.363. If an ARV is combined with a stream from another emission source, you must comply with the appropriate emission standard as prescribed in paragraph (i) of this section.
(e)
CEV.
You must comply with each applicable standard in table 3 to this subpart, and you must meet each applicable requirement specified in § 63.363. If a CEV is combined with a stream from another emission source, you must comply with the appropriate emission standard as prescribed in paragraph (i) of this section.
(f)
Group 1 room air emissions.
You must comply with the applicable standard in table 4 to this subpart, and you must meet each applicable requirement specified in § 63.363. If Group 1 room air emissions are combined with a stream from another emission source, you must comply with the appropriate emission standard as prescribed in paragraph (i) of this section.
(g)
Group 2 room air emissions.
You must comply with the applicable standard in table 5 to this subpart, and you must meet each applicable requirement specified in § 63.363. If Group 2 room air emissions are combined with a stream from another emission source, you must comply with the appropriate emission standard as prescribed in paragraph (i) of this section. If you are required to limit the sterilization chamber concentration of EtO to 1 ppmv prior to opening the sterilization chamber door, you must meet the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.364(h).
(h)
Capture systems.
Room air emissions for which numerical limits are prescribed must be captured and routed under negative pressure to a control system. You may assume the capture system efficiency is 100 percent if both conditions in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section are met:
(1) The capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control system.
(2) All sterilization operations creating exhaust gases for which the compliance demonstration is applicable are contained within the capture system.
(i)
Requirements for combined emission streams.
When streams from two or more emission sources are combined, you must demonstrate compliance by
either the approach specified in paragraph (i)(1) of this section or the approach specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section in lieu of the applicable standards in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section for the affected source. The combined emission stream limit is based on as 30-operating day rolling sum. In order to elect to comply with a combined emission streams limit, you must use a CEMS on each exhaust stack at the facility to determine compliance.
(1)
Monitoring after emission streams are combined.
You must follow requirements of paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section to determine the applicable combined emission streams limitation and demonstrate compliance. Under this approach, you must first determine the 30-operating day rolling sum of mass inlet to the control system. Then, the emission limitation is determined by applying the most stringent emission reduction standard to the 30-operating day rolling sum of the inlet mass. You must maintain actual emissions at or below that rate. For example, suppose a facility controls all of its ARVs and CEVs with one control system and that the emission reduction standards that apply to the ARVs and CEVs are 99.9% and 99%, respectively. Further suppose that the mass of uncontrolled EtO emissions from the combined stream is 5 lb during the 30-operating day period. Under this approach, the facility would need to apply an emission reduction of 99.9% to the combined stream, resulting in an emission limit of 0.005 lb for the 30-operating day period.
(i) The combined emission streams limit for each 30-operating day period is determined daily by using equation 1 to this paragraph.
ER05AP24.028
Where:
CES
Combined
= The combined emission stream limit based upon monitoring after the emission streams are combined, in pounds.
M
30day
= The 30-operating day total mass sent to controls for the combined emission stream (
i.e.,
monitoring data at the inlet of the control system), as calculated using equation A-3 and determined in accordance with appendix A to this subpart. The term “M
30day
” as used in this equation is equivalent to the term “E
30day
” as designated in equation A-3.
Max(ER) = The most stringent emission reduction standard specified in tables 1 through 5 of this subpart applicable to any of the constituent streams, in decimal format.
(ii) The 30-operating day rolling sum of emissions for the combined emission stream (
i.e.,
monitoring data at the outlet of the control system) is calculated daily using equation A-3 and determined in accordance with appendix A to this subpart. For purposes of this section, this value is designated as E
Combined
. If the combined emission stream is split between two or more control systems, further sum the 30-operating day rolling sum of emissions from each control system to obtain E
Combined
.
(iii) Compliance with the combined emission streams limitation shall be determined by demonstrating that E
Combined
, as calculated in accordance with paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section, for each 30-operating day period is at or below CES
Combined
, as calculated in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section.
(2)
Monitoring before emission streams are combined.
You must follow requirements of paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section to determine the applicable combined emission streams limitation and demonstrate compliance. Under this approach, you must first determine 30-operating day rolling sum of inlet mass to the control system for each component stream. Then, the emission limitation is determined by applying the applicable emission reduction standards to the 30-operating day rolling sum of each component
stream and summing across the components. You must maintain actual emissions at or below that rate. For example, suppose a facility controls all of its ARVs and CEVs with one control system and that the emission reduction standards that apply to the ARVs and CEVs are 99.9% and 99%, respectively. Further suppose that during a 30-operating day period the mass of uncontrolled EtO emissions from the ARVs is 4 lb and the mass of uncontrolled EtO emissions from the CEVs is 1 lb. Under this approach, the facility would need to apply an emission reduction of 99.9% to the ARV stream and an emission reduction of 99% to the CEV stream, resulting in an emission limit of 0.014 lb for the 30-operating day period.
(i) The combined emission streams limit for each 30-operating day period is determined daily by using equation 2 to this paragraph.
ER05AP24.029
Where:
CES
Streams
= The combined emission stream limit based upon monitoring before the emission streams are combined, in pounds.
M
c,i
= The 30-operating day total mass sent to controls for each non-SCV constituent emission stream (
i.e.,
monitoring data at the inlet of the control system), as calculated using equation A-3 and determined in accordance with appendix A to this subpart. The term “M
c,i
” as used in this equation is equivalent to the term “E
30day
” as designated in equation A-3.
ER
i
= The applicable emission reduction standard from tables 2 through 5 of this subpart to each non-SCV constituent emission stream
i.
i = Non-SCV constituent emission stream index.
n = Total number of non-SCV constituent emission streams.
M
c,j
= The 30-operating day total mass sent to controls for each SCV emission stream, as determined in accordance with equation 10 of § 63.364(f)(1)(i)(C)(
1
).
ER
j
= The applicable SCV emission reduction standard in table 1 to this subpart, in decimal format.
j = SCV emission stream index.
m = Total number of SCV emission streams.
(ii) The 30-operating day rolling sum emissions for the combined emission stream (
i.e.,
monitoring data at the outlet of the control system) is calculated daily using equation A-3 and determined in accordance with appendix A to this subpart. For purposes of this section, this value is designated as E
Combined
. If the combined emission stream is split between two or more control systems, then further sum the 30-operating day rolling sum emissions from each control system to obtain E
Combined
.
(iii) Compliance with the combined emission streams limitation shall be determined by demonstrating that E
Combined
, as calculated in accordance with paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section, for each 30-operating day period is at or below CES
Streams
, as calculated paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) If room air emissions are both subject to an emission standard and split between two or more control systems, then these control systems must be treated as part of the same control system.
(j)
Site-wide emission limitation.
You may choose to comply with a site-wide emission limitation (SWEL) specified in this paragraph (j) in lieu of the applicable standards in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section for the facility. The SWEL, which is calculated daily, is based on the previous 30 operating days of data. In order to elect to comply with a SWEL, you must utilize an EtO CEMS on each exhaust stack at the facility to determine compliance. The owner or operator may demonstrate compliance via one of the two SWEL approaches in lieu of the applicable standard(s) in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section for the facility. If electing to comply with a SWEL,
you must comply with paragraph (j)(3) of this section.
(1)
SWEL based upon facility EtO use.
If you elect to comply with a SWEL based upon facility EtO use, you must follow requirements of paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section to determine the applicable SWEL and demonstrate compliance. Under this approach, you first determine the 30-operating day rolling sum of EtO use. The SWEL is determined by multiplying by 0.99 and then applying the required SCV percent emission reduction standard in table 1 to this subpart to the 30-operating day rolling sum of EtO usage. Then, for each CEMS at the outlet of the control systems at the facility, determine the 30-operating day rolling sum of emissions. Finally, determine the facility actual emissions by summing the 30-operating day rolling sums for each CEMS at the facility. You must maintain actual emissions at or below the SWEL.
(i) The SWEL for each 30-operating day period is determined daily by using equation 3 to this paragraph.
ER05AP24.030
Where:
SWEL
Fac
= SWEL based upon facility EtO use, in pounds.
M
Fac
= Facility EtO use over the previous 30 operating days, in pounds, as determined in accordance with equation 11 of § 63.364(i)(2).
0.99 = Adjustment factor for EtO residual in sterilized product.
ER
SCV
= The applicable SCV emission reduction standard in table 1 to this subpart, in decimal format.
(ii) The 30-operating day rolling sum of emissions are determined daily using equation 4 to this paragraph.
ER05AP24.031
Where:
E
Fac
= The total emissions from the facility over the previous 30-operating days, in pounds.
E
o,i
= The 30-operating day rolling sum of emissions calculated at each exhaust stack,
i,
monitored by an EtO CEMS, as calculated using equation A-3 of appendix A to this subpart.
i
= Exhaust stack index
n = Total number of exhaust stacks
(iii) Compliance with the SWEL based upon facility EtO usage shall be determined by demonstrating that E
Fac
, as calculated in accordance with paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section, for each 30-operating day period is at or below the SWEL, as calculated paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section.
(2)
SWEL based upon emissions streams.
If you elect to comply with a SWEL based upon emissions streams, you must follow requirements of paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section to determine the applicable SWEL and demonstrate compliance. Under this approach, for each non-SCV affected source, you must determine the mass of EtO sent to controls and apply the applicable emission reduction standard. For each SCV affected source, you must determine the mass of EtO sent to controls as specified in § 63.364(f)(1)(i)(C)(
1
) and apply the applicable emission reduction standard. The SWEL is determined by summing across the result of this calculation for
each affected source (both non-SCV and SCV). Then, for each CEMS at the outlet of the control system(s) at the facility, determine the 30-operating day rolling sum of emissions. Finally, determine the facility actual emissions by summing the 30-operating day rolling sums for each CEMS at the facility. You must maintain actual emissions at or below the SWEL.
(i) The SWEL for each 30-operating day period is determined daily by using equation 5 to this paragraph.
ER05AP24.032
Where:
SWEL
Streams
= SWEL based upon individual emissions streams, in pounds.
M
c,i
= The 30-operating day total mass sent to controls (
i.e.,
monitoring data at the inlet of the control system) for each non-SCV emission stream, as calculated using equation A-3 and determined in accordance with appendix A to this subpart. The term “M
c,i
” as used in this equation is equivalent to the term “E
30day
” as designated in equation A-3.
ER
i
= The applicable emission reduction standard to each non-SCV emission stream,
i,
specified in tables 1 through 5 of this subpart, in decimal format.
i = Non-SCV emission streams index.
n = Total number of non-SCV emission streams.
M
c,j
= The 30-operating day total mass sent to controls for each SCV emission stream, as determined in accordance with equation 10 in § 63.364(f)(1)(i)(C)(
1
).
ER
j
= The applicable SCV emission reduction standard in table 1 to this subpart, in decimal format.
j = SCV emission stream index.
m = Total number of SCV emission streams.
(ii) The 30-operating day rolling sum of emissions are determined daily using equation 4 to this section.
(iii) Compliance with the SWEL based upon emission streams shall be determined by demonstrating that E
Fac
, as calculated in accordance with paragraph (j)(2)(ii) of this section, for each 30-operating day period is at or below SWEL
Streams
, as calculated in paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section.
(3)
Boundary.
The boundary for this approach includes all affected sources at the facility.
(k)
General duty.
At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
§ 63.363
Compliance and performance provisions.
(a)
Continuous compliance.
You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission standard(s) using an EtO CEMS, including a shared EtO CEMS, installed and operated in accordance with the requirements of Performance Specification 19 in appendix B and Procedure 7 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter. Alternatively, if you own or operate a facility where EtO use is less than 100 pounds/yr, you may demonstrate continuous compliance by conducting annual performance tests using the performance testing requirements in § 63.7, according to the applicability in table 6 to this subpart, the procedures listed in this section, and the test methods
listed in § 63.365. If you elect to demonstrate compliance through periodic performance testing, you must also demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required under this section according to the methods specified in § 63.364. If you own or operate an area source facility where EtO use is less than 100 pounds/yr where an existing collection of Group 2 room air emission is operated in accordance with the PTE requirements of EPA Method 204 of appendix M to part 51 of this chapter, you may instead conduct these performance tests once every three years.
(b)
Initial compliance for Facilities that use EtO CEMS.
To demonstrate initial compliance with an emission standard using a CEMS that measures HAP concentrations directly (
i.e.,
an EtO CEMS), the initial performance test must consist of the first 30 operating days after the certification of the CEMS according to Performance Specification 19 in Appendix B to part 40 of this chapter. The initial compliance demonstration period must be completed on or before the date that compliance must be demonstrated (
i.e.,
180 days after the applicable compliance date). You must follow the procedures in appendix A to this subpart.
(1) The CEMS performance test must demonstrate compliance with the applicable EtO standards in tables 1 through 5 to this subpart. Alternatively, the CEMS performance test may demonstrate compliance with § 63.362(i) or (j).
(i) You may time-share your CEMS among different measurement points provided that:
(A) The measurement points are approximately equidistant from the CEMS;
(B) The sampling time at each measurement point is at least 3 times as long as the CEMS response time;
(C) The CEMS completes at least one complete cycle of operation for each shared measurement point within a 15-minute period; and
(D) The CEMS meets the other requirements of PS 19.
(2) You must collect hourly data from auxiliary monitoring systems during the performance test period, to convert the pollutant concentrations to pounds per hour.
(c)
Initial compliance demonstration where facility EtO use is less than 100 pounds per year.
If you own or operate an affected source that is both subject to an emission standard in § 63.362 and located within a facility where EtO use is less than 100 pounds per year, you may comply with paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section:
(1) Conduct an initial compliance demonstration using the procedures listed in § 63.7 of this part according to the applicability in table 6 to this subpart, the procedures listed in this section, and the test methods listed in § 63.365;
(2) Complete the initial compliance demonstration within 180 days after the compliance date for the affected source as determined in § 63.360(j).
(d)
Operating limits for facility where EtO use is less than 100 lb/yr.
If annual EtO use at the facility is less than 100 lb, the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section may be used to determine compliance with the standard(s) under § 63.362(c) through (g) and to establish operating limits for each of the control devices, as applicable:
(1) You must determine the percent emission reduction of the control system used to comply with § 63.362(c) through (g) using the test methods and procedures in § 63.365(d)(1).
(2) If an acid-water scrubber(s) is used to comply with a standard, then you must establish as an operating limit:
(i) The maximum ethylene glycol concentration using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(1)(i);
(ii) The maximum liquor tank level using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(1)(ii); or
(iii) The maximum scrubber liquor pH using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(1)(iii).
(3) If a thermal oxidizer(s) is used to comply with a standard, you must establish as an operating limit the minimum temperature in or immediately downstream of the firebox using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(2).
(4) If a catalytic oxidizer(s) is used to comply with the standard, you must establish as operating limits both:
(i) The minimum temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(3); and
(ii) The minimum temperature difference across the catalyst bed using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(3).
(5) If a gas/solid reactor(s) is used to comply with the standard, you must establish as an operating limit the pressure drop across the media beds and conduct weekly sampling and analysis of the media. Determine the maximum gas/solid reactor pressure drop using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(4).
(e)
Other control technology for facility where EtO use is less than 100 lb/yr.
If you are conducting a performance test using a control technology other than an acid-water scrubber, catalytic oxidizer, thermal oxidizer, or gas/solid reactor, you must provide to the Administrator information describing the design and operation of the air pollution control system, including recommendations for the parameters to be monitored that will demonstrate continuous compliance. Based on this information, the Administrator will determine the parameter(s) to be measured during the performance test. During the performance test required in paragraph (a) of this section, using the methods approved in § 63.365(e)(5), you must determine the site-specific operating limit(s) for the operating parameters approved by the Administrator. You must submit the information at least sixty days before the performance test is scheduled to begin. The information on the control technology must include the five items listed in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this section:
(1) Identification of the specific parameters you propose to use as additional operating limits;
(2) A discussion of the relationship between these parameters and emissions of regulated pollutants, identifying how emissions of regulated pollutants change with changes in these parameters and how limits on these parameters will serve to limit emissions of regulated pollutants;
(3) A discussion of how you will establish the upper and/or lower values which will establish the operating limits for these parameters;
(4) A discussion identifying the methods you will use to measure and the instruments you will use to monitor these parameters, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of these methods and instruments; and
(5) A discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you will use for monitoring these parameters.
(f)
Other emission streams.
If the emission stream does not consist only of an SCV(s), the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section shall be used to determine initial compliance with the emission limits under § 63.362(d) through (g), as applicable:
(1) You must comply with paragraph (c) of this section, as applicable.
(2) If you are complying with a percent emission reduction standard as specified in tables 1 through 5 to this subpart, you must determine compliance with § 63.362(c) through (g), as applicable, using the test methods and procedures in § 63.365(d)(1).
(3) If you are required to operate any portion of the facility under PTE, you must initially demonstrate that the PTE meets the requirements of Method 204 of 40 CFR part 51, appendix M, and that all exhaust gases from the enclosure are delivered to a control system or stack(s). You must also meet the requirements in § 63.363(f)(3)(i) and either § 63.363(f)(3)(ii) or (iii):
(i) Maintain direction of the airflow into the enclosure at all times, verifying daily using the procedures described in § 63.364(f)(5) and meet either of the requirements.
(ii) Establish as an operating limit the
minimum volumetric flow rate through the affected stack(s)
using the procedures described in § 63.365(f)(1); or
(iii) Install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a continuous pressure differential monitoring system using the procedures described in § 63.364(f)(4).
§ 63.364
Monitoring requirements.
(a)
General requirements.
(1) If you own or operate an affected source subject to an emission standard in § 63.362, you must comply with the monitoring requirements in § 63.8, according to the applicability in table 6 to this subpart, and in this section.
(2) If you own or operate an affected source at a facility where EtO use is less than 100 lb/yr that is subject to an emission standard in § 63.362, you may monitor the parameters specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), and (i) of this section. All monitoring equipment shall be installed such that representative measurements of emissions or process parameters from the source are obtained. For monitoring equipment purchased from a vendor, verification of the operational status of the monitoring equipment shall include completion of the manufacturer's written specifications or recommendations for installation, operation, and calibration of the system.
(3) If you own or operate an affected source that is subject to an emission standard in § 63.362 and that is required to monitor using EtO CEMS, you must comply with paragraphs (f), (g), and (i) of this section.
(4) If you comply with the management practice for Group 2 room air emissions at area sources, you must comply with paragraph (h) of this section.
(5) You must keep the written procedures required by § 63.8(d)(2) on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you must keep previous (
i.e.,
superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).
(b)
Acid-water scrubbers.
If you are demonstrating continuous compliance through periodic performance testing on an acid-water scrubber(s), you must:
(1)
Ethylene glycol concentration.
Sample the scrubber liquor from the acid-water scrubber(s) and analyze and record at least once per week the ethylene glycol concentration of the scrubber liquor using the test methods and procedures in § 63.365(e)(1). Monitoring is required during a week only if the scrubber unit has been operated. You must maintain the weekly ethylene glycol concentration below the operating limit established during the most recent performance test;
(2)
Scrubber liquor tank level.
Measure and record at least once per day the level of the scrubber liquor in the recirculation tank(s). You must install, maintain, and use a liquid level indicator to measure the scrubber liquor tank level (
i.e.,
a marker on the tank wall, a dipstick, a magnetic indicator, etc.). Monitoring is required during a day only if the scrubber unit has been operated. You must maintain the daily scrubber liquor height in each recirculation tank below the applicable operating limit established during the most recent performance test; or
(3)
pH.
Monitor and record at least every 15 minutes the scrubber liquor pH. Monitoring is required when the scrubber is operating. A data acquisition system for the pH monitor shall compute and record each 3-hour average scrubber liquor pH value, rolled hourly. This must be done by first averaging the scrubber liquor pH readings obtained over a clock hour,
i.e.,
beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even if the scrubber unit is not operating for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average scrubber liquor pH. You must maintain the 3-hour rolling average scrubber liquor pH below the applicable operating limit established during the most recent performance test. You must ensure the pH monitoring system meets the following requirements:
(i) The pH sensor must be installed in a position that provides a representative measurement of scrubber liquor pH;
(ii) The sample must be properly mixed and representative of the fluid to be measured; and
(iii) A performance evaluation (including a two-point calibration with one of the two buffer solutions having a pH within 1 of the pH of the operating limit) of the pH monitoring system must be conducted in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than quarterly.
(c)
Oxidizers.
If you are demonstrating continuous compliance through periodic performance testing on a catalytic oxidizer or thermal oxidizer, the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section apply:
(1) For thermal oxidizers, you must monitor and record at least every 15 minutes the temperature in or immediately downstream of the firebox using the temperature monitor described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Monitoring is required when the thermal oxidizer is operating. A data acquisition system for the temperature monitor shall compute and record each 3-hour average temperature value, rolled hourly. This must be done by first averaging the temperature readings over a clock hour,
i.e.,
beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even if the thermal oxidizer is not operating for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average temperature in or immediately downstream of the firebox. You must maintain the 3-hour rolling average temperature above the operating limit established during the most recent performance test.
(2) For catalytic oxidizers, you must monitor and record at least every 15 minutes the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed using the temperature monitor described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Monitoring is required when the catalytic oxidizer is operating. A data acquisition system for the temperature monitor shall compute and record each 3-hour average temperature, rolled hourly. This must be done by first averaging the temperature readings over a clock hour,
i.e.,
beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even if the catalytic oxidizer is not operating for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed. You must maintain the 3-hour rolling average temperature above the operating limit established during the most recent performance test.
(3) For catalytic oxidizers, you must monitor and record at least every 15 minutes the temperature increase across the catalyst bed, immediately downstream of the catalytic bed, using the temperature monitor described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Monitoring is required when the catalytic oxidizer is operating. A data acquisition system for the temperature monitor shall compute and record each 3-hour average temperature increase, rolled hourly. This must be done by first computing the difference in outlet temperature minus inlet temperature (monitored under paragraph (c)(2)), and second averaging the temperature difference values over a clock hour,
i.e.,
beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even if the catalytic oxidizer is not operating for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average temperature increase across the catalyst bed. You must maintain the 3-hour average temperature increase above the operating limit established during the most recent performance test.
(4) You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a temperature monitor with a minimum accuracy of ±1 percent over the normal range of the temperature measured, expressed in degrees Celsius, or 2.8 degrees Celsius, whichever is greater. You must verify the accuracy of the temperature monitor twice each calendar year at least five months apart with a reference temperature monitor (traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards or an independent temperature measurement device dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy checking, the probe of the reference device shall be at the same location as that of the temperature monitor being tested. As an alternative, the accuracy of the temperature monitor may be verified in a calibrated oven (traceable to NIST standards).
(5) For catalytic oxidizers, if the monitor indicates that the temperature is below the operating limit, within 7 calendar days you must:
(i) Correct the temperature or temperature increase so that it falls within the established operating range; or
(ii) Replace the catalyst bed. Following replacement of the catalyst bed, you must conduct a new performance test within 180 days and re-establish the operating limits.
(d)
Gas-solid reactors.
If you are demonstrating continuous compliance through periodic performance testing on a gas/solid reactor(s), you must:
(1)
Media analysis.
Sample the media from the gas/solid reactor(s) and have the manufacturer analyze at least once per week. Monitoring is required during a week only if the gas/solid reactor unit has been operated; and
(2)
Pressure drop.
Monitor and record at least every 15 minutes the pressure drop. Monitoring is required when the gas/solid reactor is operating. A data acquisition system for the pressure drop monitor shall compute and record each 3-hour average gas/solid reactor pressure drop value, rolled hourly. This must be done by first averaging the gas/solid reactor pressure drop readings obtained over a clock hour,
i.e.,
beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even if the gas/solid reactor unit is not operating for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average gas/solid reactor pressure drop. You must maintain the 3-hour rolling average gas/solid reactor pressure drop below the applicable operating limit established during the most recent performance test.
(e)
Performance testing, other control technology.
If you are complying with § 63.363(d) or (e) using periodic performance testing and the use of a control device other than acid-water scrubbers, catalytic or thermal oxidizers, or gas/solid reactors, you must monitor the parameters as approved by the Administrator using the methods and procedures in § 63.365(e).
(f)
EtO CEMS configurations.
If you are using EtO CEMS to demonstrate compliance with an emission standard, you must install and operate an EtO CEMS on each outlet for the control system in accordance with the requirements of Appendix A to subpart O of this part. You must also conduct monitoring for each inlet to the control system that is used to demonstrate compliance with the emission reduction standard in accordance with the requirements of appendix A to this subpart, with the exception for SCV emission streams to the control system.
(1)
EtO CEMS inlet configuration.
The following caveats apply:
(i)
SCVs.
If you do not own or operate a single-item sterilizer, to demonstrate compliance with the percent emission reduction standards for emissions streams that are comprised only of SCVs, you may use the following procedures as an alternative to monitoring the inlet emission stream to determine the mass emissions of EtO being emitted via sterilization chamber(s) vents prior to the controls.
(A) Determine the mass (M
SCV,n
) of EtO used for each charge and at each sterilization chamber used during the previous 30 days using the procedures in either paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section.
(
1
) Weigh the EtO gas cylinder(s) used to charge the sterilizer(s) before and after charging. Record these weights to the nearest 45 g (0.1 lb) and calculate the theoretical mass (M
c
) vented to the controls using equation 1 to this paragraph.
ER05AP24.033
Where:
M
SCV,n
= Theoretical total mass of EtO vented to controls per charge, g (lb)
M
charge
= total mass of sterilizer gas charge, g (lb)
%EO
w
= weight percent of EtO
(
2
) Install a calibrated rate meter at the sterilizer inlet(s) and continuously measure the flow rate (Q
m
) and duration of each sterilizer charge. Calculate the theoretical mass (M
SCV,n
) vented to the controls using equation 2 to this paragraph.
ER05AP24.034
Where:
M
SCV,n
= theoretical total mass of EtO sent to controls per charge
Q
m
= volumetric flow rate, liters per minute (L/min) corrected to 20 °C and 101.325 kilopascals (kPa) (scf per minute (scfm) corrected to 68 °F and 1 atmosphere of pressure (atm))
T
n
= time duration of each charge, min
%EO
v
= volume fraction percent of EtO
n = number of EtO charges
MW
= molecular weight of EtO, 44.05 grams per gram-mole (g/g-mole) (44.05 pounds per pound-mole (lb/lb-mole))
SV
= standard volume, 24.05 liters per gram-mole (L/g-mole) at 20 °C and 101.325 kPa (385.1 scf per pound-mole (scf/lb-mole) at 68 °F and 1 atm).
(B) Determine the adjustment factor (
f
) using equation 8 to this paragraph. Determine the mass of EtO sent to controls from all non-SCV affected sources,
I,
using equation 4 to this paragraph. For facilities where EtO use is less than 4 tpy, if not all Group 2 room air emissions are routed to a control device, do not include Group 2 room air emissions in
I,
and subtract 0.002 from this factor.
ER05AP24.035
Where:
f
= Adjustment factor.
I
= Mass of non-SCV EtO routed to control devices over the previous 30 operating days
M
Fac
= Facility EtO use over the previous 30-operating days, in pounds, as determined in accordance with equation 11 of § 63.364(i)(2)
ER05AP24.036
Where:
I
= Mass of non-SCV EtO routed to control devices over the previous 30 operating days
M
c,i
= The 30-operating day total mass sent to controls (
i.e.,
monitoring data at the inlet of the control system) for each non-SCV emission stream, as calculated using equation A-3 and determined in accordance with appendix A to this subpart. The term “M
c,i
” as used in this equation is equivalent to the term “E
30day
” as designated in equation A-3.
i = Non-SCV emission stream index.
n = Total number of non-SCV emission streams.
(C)(
1
) Determine the mass rate of EtO sent to controls during the previous 30 days using equation 5 to this paragraph.
ER05AP24.037
Where:
M
SCV
= Total mass of EtO sent to controls over the previous 30 operating days, g/hr (lb/hr)
f
= Adjustment factor
M
SCV,n
= Theoretical mass of EtO sent to controls per charge per chamber, g (lb)
n
= Total number of charges during the previous 30 operating days
(
2
) If both this approach is chosen and the SCV is (or SCVs are) combined with another emission stream, then the owner or operator cannot monitor the point after the combination occurs.
(ii)
Room air emissions.
If room air emissions are both subject to an emission standard and split between two or more control systems, then monitoring must be conducted for room air emissions before they are combined with other streams.
(2)
EtO CEMS on exhaust configurations.
Exhaust gases from the emission sources under this subpart exhaust to the atmosphere through a variety of different configurations, including but not limited to individual stacks, a common stack configuration, or a main stack plus a bypass stack. For the CEMS used to provide data under this subpart, the continuous monitoring system installation requirements for these exhaust configurations are as follows:
(i)
Single unit-single stack configurations.
For an emission source that exhausts to the atmosphere through a single, dedicated stack, you shall either install the required CEMS in the stack or at a location in the ductwork downstream of all emissions control devices, where the pollutant and diluents concentrations are representative of the emissions that exit to the atmosphere.
(ii)
Unit utilizing common stack with other emission source(s).
When an emission source utilizes a common stack with one or more other emission sources, but no emission sources not subject to this rule, you shall either:
(A) Install the required CEMS in the duct from each emission source, leading to the common stack; or
(B) Install the required CEMS in the common stack.
(iii)
Unit(s) utilizing common stack with non-commercial sterilization emission source(s).
(A) When one or more emission sources shares a common stack with one or more emission sources not subject to this rule, you shall either:
(
1
) Install the required CEMS in the ducts from each emission source that is subject to this rule, leading to the common stack; or
(
2
) Install the required CEMS described in this section in the common stack and attribute all of the emissions measured at the common stack to the emission source(s).
(B) If you choose the common stack monitoring option:
(
1
) For each hour in which valid data are obtained for all parameters, you must calculate the pollutant emission rate; and
(
2
) You must assign the calculated pollutant emission rate to each of the units subject to the rule that share the common stack.
(iv)
Unit with multiple parallel control devices with multiple stacks.
If the exhaust gases from an emission source, which is configured such that emissions are controlled with multiple parallel control devices or multiple series
of control devices are discharged to the atmosphere through more than one stack, you shall install the required CEMS described in each of the multiple stacks. You shall calculate hourly, flow-weighted, average pollutant emission rates for the unit as follows:
(A) Calculate the pollutant emission rate at each stack or duct for each hour in which valid data are obtained for all parameters;
(B) Multiply each calculated hourly pollutant emission rate at each stack or duct by the corresponding hourly gas flow rate at that stack or duct;
(C) Sum the products determined under paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(B) of this section; and
(D) Divide the result obtained in paragraph (f)(2)(I(C) of this section by the total hourly gas flow rate for the unit, summed across all of the stacks or ducts.
(g)
PTE monitoring.
If you are required to operate all or a portion of your sterilization facility under PTE conditions, you must:
(1)
Initial compliance.
Demonstrate initial procedures in § 63.365(g)(1) and continued compliance with the provisions in this section. You must follow the requirements of either paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section or paragraph (g)(4) of this section.
(2)
Continuous compliance.
If you choose to demonstrate continuous compliance through volumetric flow rate monitoring, you must monitor and record at least every 15 minutes the volumetric flow rate from each outlet where air from the PTE is sent using a flow rate monitoring system described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section. Monitoring is required when the portion of the facility covered by PTE is operated. A data acquisition system for the flow rate monitoring system shall compute and record each 3-hour average flow rate value, rolled hourly. This must be done by first averaging the flow rate readings over a clock hour,
i.e.,
beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even the portion of the facility covered by PTE is not operated for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average flow rate. You must maintain the 3-hour rolling average flow rate above the applicable operating limits established during the most recent compliance demonstration.
(3)
Continuous flow rate monitoring system for PTE.
You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain instruments, according to the requirements in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) through (ix) of this section, for continuously measuring and recording the stack gas flow rate to allow determination of compliance with the minimum volumetric flow rate through the affected stack operating limit(s).
(i) You must install each sensor of the flow rate monitoring system in a location that provides representative measurement of the exhaust gas flow rate. The flow rate sensor is that portion of the system that senses the volumetric flow rate and generates an output proportional to that flow rate.
(ii) The flow rate monitoring system must be designed to measure the exhaust flow rate over a range that extends from a value of at least 20 percent less than the lowest expected exhaust flow rate to a value of at least 20 percent greater than the highest expected exhaust flow rate.
(iii) The flow rate monitoring system must be equipped with a data acquisition and recording system that is capable of recording values over the entire range specified in paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section.
(iv) The signal conditioner, wiring, power supply, and data acquisition and recording system for the flow rate monitoring system must be compatible with the output signal of the flow rate sensors used in the monitoring system.
(v) The flow rate monitoring system must be designed to complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period.
(vi) The flow rate sensor must have provisions to determine the daily zero and upscale calibration drift (CD) (
see
sections 3.1 and 8.3 of Performance Specification 2 in appendix B to Part 60 of this chapter for a discussion of CD).
(A) Conduct the CD tests at two reference signal levels, zero (
e.g.,
0 to 20 percent of span) and upscale (
e.g.,
50 to 70 percent of span).
(B) The absolute value of the difference between the flow monitor response and the reference signal must be equal to or less than 3 percent of the flow monitor span.
(vii) You must perform an initial relative accuracy test of the flow rate monitoring system according to section 8.2 of Performance Specification 6 of appendix B to part 60 of the chapter with the exceptions in paragraphs (g)(3)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) The relative accuracy test is to evaluate the flow rate monitoring system alone rather than a continuous emission rate monitoring system.
(B) The relative accuracy of the flow rate monitoring system shall be no greater than 10 percent of the mean value of the reference method data.
(viii) You must verify the accuracy of the flow rate monitoring system at least once per year by repeating the relative accuracy test specified in paragraph (g)(3)(vii) of this section.
(ix) You must operate the flow rate monitoring system and record data during all periods of operation of the affected facility including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.
(4)
Pressure differential monitor.
You must instead install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a continuous pressure differential monitoring system, as follows, to verify the presence of PTE. You must operate this system whenever the facility is in operation. You must also maintain the pressure differential at or above 0.007 inches of water over a three-hour rolling average.
(i) This monitoring system must measure the pressure differential between the interior and exterior of the PTE, with at least one monitoring device located in each room that borders the PTE. These monitoring devices shall be designed to provide measurements of pressure differential to at least the nearest 0.001 inches of water and having a complete cycle time no greater than 5 minutes.
(ii) A data acquisition system for the monitoring system shall compute and record each 3-hour average pressure differential value, rolled hourly. This must be done by first averaging the pressure differential readings over a clock hour,
i.e.,
beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even in portions of the facility covered by PTE that are not operated for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average pressure differential. If data are not recorded from an alternative monitoring device, during any malfunction of the principal monitoring device(s) or the automatic recorder, you must manually record the measured data at least hourly.
(h)
Sterilization chamber end-cycle EtO concentration.
As part of your monitoring plan, you must document your approach for determining the EtO sterilization chamber concentration. If you choose a parametric approach you must meet the requirements in paragraph (h)(1) of this section and if you choose a direct measurement approach you must meet the requirements in paragraph (h)(2) of this section. Alternatively, you may petition the administrator for an alternative monitoring approach under § 63.8(f).
(1) If you choose a parametric approach for determining chamber EtO concentrations you must document parameter(s) used in the calculation to determine of EtO concentrations and the calculation(s) used to determine the chamber concentration. Any instrumentation used for parametric monitoring must also be identified in the monitoring plan and at a minimum this plan should include the following for each instrument:
(i) Parameter measured and measurement principle of the monitor.
(ii) Instrument name, model number, serial number, and range.
(iii) Manufacturer recommended operation practices, including daily operational check.
(iv) Procedures for calibration, the frequency of calibration, and accuracy requirements of the calibration.
(v) Description for how the information from the parameter monitor is being collected and stored.
(2) If you choose a direct measurement approach for determining chamber EtO calibrations you must document the procedures used for the operation of the instruments. Any instrument used for direct measurement of
EtO must be identified in the monitoring plan and at a minimum this plan must include the following information:
(i) Instrument name, model number, serial number, and range.
(ii) Description of the measurement principle and any potential interferences.
(iii) If applicable, the description of the sampling condition system.
(iv) Procedures for calibration, the frequency of calibration, and accuracy requirements of the calibration.
(v) Description for how the information from the parameter monitor is being collected and stored.
(i)
EtO usage.
If you own or operate a sterilization facility subject to the requirements of this subpart you must monitor and record on a daily basis the daily and 30-operating day EtO usage according to the requirements of this paragraph. Additionally, you must record EtO usage for each calendar month.
(1) Monitor and record on a daily basis, the daily total mass of ethylene oxide, in pounds, used at the facility. The daily total mass must be determined using the methodology specified in § 63.365(c)(1)(i) and (ii).
(2) Determine and record daily the 30-operating day rolling ethylene oxide usage rate using equation 6 to this paragraph.
ER05AP24.038
Where:
M
Fac
= Facility EtO use over the previous 30 operating days, in pounds.
m
Fac,i
= Daily EtO use for operating day
i,
in pounds, as determined in accordance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section
i = Operating day index.
(3) Determine and record the total mass of EtO used in each calendar month.
§ 63.365
Test methods and procedures.
(a)
General
—(1)
Performance testing for facility where EtO use is less than 100 pounds per year.
If you own or operate an affected source at a facility where EtO use is less than 100 lb/yr that is subject to an emission standard in § 63.362, you must comply with the performance testing requirements in § 63.7, according to the applicability in table 6 to this subpart, using the methods in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, following the applicable procedures for initial compliance and continuous compliance in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section.
(2)
Facilities subject to capture efficiency.
If you are subject to capture efficiency requirements in § 63.362, you must follow the applicable procedures for initial and continuous compliance in paragraph (f) of this section.
(b)
Test methods for facility where EtO use is less than 100 pounds per year.
You must use the following test methods to determine the average mass emissions of EtO in lb/hr at the inlet of a control system (M
APCD, i
) and/or outlet of a control system or stack (E
APCD, o
).
(1) Select the location of the sampling ports and the number of traverse points according to Method 1 of appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter. Alternatively, for ducts less than 0.3 meter (12 in.) in diameter, you may choose to locate sample ports according to Method 1A of appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter.
(2) Determine the flow rate through the control system exhaust(s) continuously during the test period according to either Methods 2, 2A, or 2C of appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter, as appropriate. If using Method 2, 2A, or 2C, you must complete velocity traverses immediately before and subsequently after each test run. If your test run is greater than 1 hour, you must also complete a velocity traverse at least every hour. Average the velocity collected during a test run and calculate volumetric flow as outlined in the appropriate method.
(3) Determine the oxygen and carbon dioxide concentration of the effluent according to Method 3A or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter. The manual procedures (but not instrumental procedures) of voluntary consensus standard ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may be used as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(4) Determine the moisture content of the stack gas according to Method 4 of appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter. Alternatively, you may use an on-line technique that has been validated using Method 301 of appendix A to this part.
(5) Determine the EtO concentration according to either paragraph (b)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) Follow Method 320 of appendix A to this part and the following paragraphs (5)(i)(A) through (D).
(A) The instrumentation used for measurement must have the measurement range to properly quantify the EtO in the gas stream. Additionally, for outlet emission streams, the instrumentation must have a method detection limit an order of magnitude below concentration equivalent of the emission limit.
(B) Instrumentation used must be continuous in nature with an averaging time of one minute or less.
(C) Calibration Spectra and all other analyte spiking required in the method must use EtO gaseous cylinder standard(s) which meet the criteria found in Performance Specification 19 of appendix B to part 60 if this chapter.
(D) Other methods and materials may be used; however, these alternative test methods are subject to Administrator approval.
(ii) Alternatively, ASTM D6348-12 (Reapproved 2020), (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may be used with the following conditions:
(A) The test plan preparation and implementation in the Annexes to ASTM D 6348-12 (R2020), Sections A1 through A8 are mandatory; and
(B) In ASTM D6348-12 (R2020) Annex A5 (Analyte Spiking Technique), the percent (%) R must be determined for each target analyte (equation A5.5). In order for the test data to be acceptable for a compound, %R must be 70% ≥ R ≤ 130%. If the %R value does not meet this criterion for a target compound, the test data is not acceptable for that compound and the test must be repeated for that analyte (
i.e.,
the sampling and/or analytical procedure should be adjusted before a retest). The %R value for each compound must be reported in the test report, and all field measurements must be corrected with the calculated %R value for that compound by using equation 1 to this paragraph:
ER05AP24.039
(6) Calculate the mass emission of EtO by using equations 2 and 3 to this paragraph:
ER05AP24.040
Where:
M
APCD, i
= average inlet mass rate of EtO per hour, lb/hr
C
EtO,i
= inlet EtO concentration, ppmdv.
Qi = average inlet volumetric flow per hour at standard conditions, dscf/hr
44.05 = molecular weight (MW) of EtO, lb/lb-mole
MW/385.1 × 10
6
= conversion factor, from ppmv at standard conditions to lb/cf
E
APCD, o
= average outlet mass rate of EtO per hour, lb/hr
C
EtO,o
= outlet EtO concentration, ppbdv.
Q
o
= average outlet volumetric flow per hour at standard conditions, dscf/hr
MW/385.1 × 10
9
= conversion factor, from ppbv at standard conditions to lb/cf
(c)
Alternative approach for SCVs for facility where EtO use is less than 100 pounds per year.
If you do not own or operate a single-item sterilizer, to demonstrate compliance with the percent emission reduction standards for emissions streams that are comprised only of SCVs, you may use the following procedures as an alternative to paragraph (b) of this section to determine the mass emissions of EtO being emitted via sterilization chamber(s) vents prior to the controls.
(1) Determine the mass (M
SCV,n
) of EtO used for each charge and at each sterilization chamber used during the performance tests using the procedures in either paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) Weigh the EtO gas cylinder(s) used to charge the sterilizer(s) before and after charging. Record these weights to the nearest 45 g (0.1 lb) and calculate the theoretical mass (M
SCV,n
) vented to the controls using equation 4 to this paragraph.
ER05AP24.041
Where:
M
SCV,n
= Theoretical total mass of EtO vented to controls per charge, g (lb)
M
charge
= total mass of sterilizer gas charge, g (lb)
%E.O.
w
= weight percent of EtO
(ii) Install a calibrated rate meter at the sterilizer inlet(s) and continuously measure the flow rate (Q
m
) and duration of each sterilizer charge. Calculate the theoretical mass (M
SCV,n
) vented to the controls using equation 5 to this paragraph.
ER05AP24.042
Where:
M
SCV,n
= Total mass of EtO sent to controls per charge
Q
m
= volumetric flow rate, liters per minute (L/min) corrected to 20 °C and 101.325 kilopascals (kPa) (scf per minute (scfm) corrected to 68 °F and 1 atmosphere of pressure (atm))
T
n
= time duration of each charge, min
n
= number of EtO charges
%E.O.
v
= volume fraction percent of EtO
MW
= molecular weight of EtO, 44.05 grams per gram-mole (g/g-mole) (44.05 pounds per pound-mole (lb/lb-mole))
SV
= standard volume, 24.05 liters per gram-mole (L/g-mole) at 20 °C and 101.325 kPa (385.1 scf per pound-mole (scf/lb-mole) at 68 °F and 1 atm).
(2) Determine the mass rate of EtO sent to controls during the performance test using equation 6 to this paragraph.
ER05AP24.043
Where:
M
SCV
= Total mass of EtO sent to controls per hour, g/hr (lb/hr)
M
SCV,n
= Total mass of EtO sent to controls per charge per chamber, g (lb)
T
t
= Total time of the performance test, hour
n
= Total number of charges during testing period
f
= Portion of EtO use that is assumed to be routed to the control system (0.93 if aeration is conducted in separate vessel; 0.98 otherwise)
(d)
Compliance determination for facility where EtO use is less than 100 pounds per year.
Each compliance demonstration shall consist of three separate runs using the applicable methods in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section. To determine compliance with the relevant standard, arithmetic mean of the three runs must be used. These procedures may be performed over a run duration of 1-hour (for a total of three 1-hour runs), except for the SCV testing from this category, where each run shall consist of the entirety of the sterilizer chamber evacuation and subsequent washes. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. The owner or operator must also account for the control system residence time when conducting the performance test. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests. The following procedures shall be used to demonstrate compliance with a removal efficiency standard. In addition to these procedures, the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section must be followed to establish the operating parameter limits for each applicable emission control(s).
(1) You may determine the mass rate emissions of the stream prior to the control system and at the outlet of the control system using the test methods in paragraph (b) of this section. If the vent stream is comprised only of one or more SCVs, then you may use the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section for the mass rate emissions at the inlet.
(2) Calculate the total mass of EtO per hour that is routed to the control system by summing the mass of EtO per hour from each vent.
(3) Determine percent emission reduction (%ER) using the equation 7 to this paragraph:
ER05AP24.044
Where:
% ER = percent emission reduction
M
APCD,i
= total mass of EtO per hour to the control device
E
APCD,o
= total mass of EtO per hour from the control device
(4) Repeat these procedures two additional times. The arithmetic average percent efficiency of the three runs shall determine the overall efficiency of the control system.
(e)
Determination of operating limits for control device(s).
If you are using performance testing to demonstrate compliance with removal efficiency standards, and if you are not demonstrating continual compliance with the applicable standard(s) using an EtO CEMS, you must also determine the operating limit(s) for each control device and then monitor the parameter(s) for each control device. The procedures in the following paragraphs shall be used to establish the parameter operating limits to be continually monitored in § 63.364.
(1)
Acid-water scrubbers.
The procedures in paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be used to determine the operating limits for acid-water scrubbers.
(i)
Ethylene glycol concentration.
For determining the ethylene glycol concentration operating limit, you must establish the maximum ethylene glycol concentration as the ethylene glycol concentration averaged over three test runs; use the sampling and analysis procedures in ASTM D3695-88 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) to determine the ethylene glycol concentration.
(ii)
Scrubber liquor tank level.
During the performance test, you must monitor and record the scrubber liquor tank level to the nearest
1/4
inch at the end of each of the three test runs. Use the data collected during the most recent performance test to calculate the average scrubber liquor tank level. This scrubber liquor tank level is the maximum operating limit for your scrubber liquor tank. Repeat this procedure for every scrubber liquor tank that is included in the performance test.
(iii)
Scrubber liquor pH.
During the performance test, you must monitor and record the scrubber liquor pH at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. You must use pH monitors as described in § 63.364(b)(3). Use the data collected during the most recent performance test to calculate the average scrubber pH measured. This scrubber liquor pH is the maximum operating limit for your acid-water scrubber. Repeat this procedure for every scrubber liquor tank that is included in the performance test.
(2)
Thermal oxidizers.
The procedures in this paragraph shall be used to determine the operating limits for thermal oxidizers.
(i) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. You must monitor the temperature in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or immediately downstream of the firebox. You must use temperature monitors as described in § 63.364(c)(4).
(ii) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature for each test run maintained during the performance test. The average temperature of the test runs is the minimum operating limit for your thermal oxidizer, unless it exceeds the recommended maximum oxidation temperature provided by the oxidation unit manufacturer. If this occurs, the minimum operating limit for your thermal oxidizer consists of the recommended maximum oxidation temperature provided by the oxidation unit manufacturer.
(iii) Paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section must be completed for
each thermal oxidizer that is involved in the performance test.
(3)
Catalytic oxidizers.
The procedures in this paragraph shall be used to determine the operating limits for catalytic oxidizers.
(i) Prior to the start of the performance test, you must check the catalyst bed for channeling, abrasion, and settling. If problems are found during the inspection, you must replace the catalyst bed or take other correction action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(ii) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and the temperature difference across the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. You must use temperature monitors as described in § 63.364(c)(4).
(iii) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained for each test run, and then calculate the arithmetic averages of the test runs. These arithmetic averages of the test runs are the minimum operating limits for your catalytic oxidizer, unless it exceeds the recommended maximum oxidation temperature provided by the oxidation unit manufacturer. If this occurs, the minimum operating limit for your catalytic oxidizer consists of the recommended maximum oxidation temperature provided by the oxidation unit manufacturer.
(iv) Paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section must be completed for each catalytic oxidizer that is involved in the performance test.
(4)
Gas/solid reactors.
During the performance test, you must monitor and record the gas/solid reactor pressure drop at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. Use the data collected during the most recent performance test to calculate the gas/solid reactor pressure measured. This gas/solid reactor pressure is the maximum operating limit for your gas/solid. Repeat this procedure for every gas/solid reactor that is included in the performance test.
(5)
Other control system for facility where EtO use is less than 100 pounds per year.
If you seek to demonstrate compliance with a standard found at § 63.362 with a control device other than an acid-water scrubber, catalytic oxidizer, thermal oxidizer, or gas/solid reactor, you must provide to the Administrator the information requested under § 63.363(e). You must submit a monitoring plan that contains the following items: a description of the device; test results collected in accordance with § 63.363(e) verifying the performance of the device for controlling EtO emissions to the atmosphere to the levels required by the applicable standards; the appropriate operating parameters that will be monitored, identifying the ongoing QA procedures and performance specifications that will be conducted on the instruments; the frequency of conducting QA and performance checks; and the frequency of measuring and recording to establish continuous compliance with the standards. Your monitoring plan is subject to the Administrator's approval. Upon approval by the Administrator you must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain the monitor(s) approved by the Administrator based on the information submitted in your monitoring plan. You must include in your monitoring plan proposed performance specifications and quality assurance procedures for your monitors. The Administrator may request further information and shall approve appropriate test methods and procedures.
(f)
Determination of compliance with PTE requirement.
If you are required to operate any portion of your facility with PTE, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the requirements of this subpart by following the procedures of paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable, during the initial compliance demonstration or during the initial certification of the CEMS tests.
(1) Determine the capture efficiency by verifying the capture system meets the criteria in section 6 of Method 204 of appendix M to part 51 of this chapter and directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device.
(2) Ensure that the air passing through all NDOs flows into the enclosure continuously. If the facial velocities (FVs) are less than or equal to 9,000 meters per hour (492 feet per minute), the continuous inward flow of air shall be verified by continuous observation using smoke tubes, streamers, tracer gases, or other means approved by the Administrator over the period that the volumetric flow rate tests required to determine FVs are carried out. If the FVs are greater than 9,000 meters per hour (492 feet per minute), the direction of airflow through the NDOs shall be presumed to be inward at all times without verification.
(3) If you are demonstrating continuous compliance through monitoring the volumetric flow rate, you must monitor and record the volumetric flow rate (in cubic feet per second) from the PTE through the stack(s) at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. Use the data collected during the most recent compliance demonstration to calculate the average volumetric flow rate measured during the compliance demonstration. This volumetric flow rate is the minimum operating limit for the stack. Repeat this procedure for every stack that is included in the compliance demonstration.
§ 63.366
Reporting requirements.
(a)
General requirements.
The owner or operator of an affected source subject to the emissions standards in § 63.362 must fulfill all reporting requirements in § 63.10(a), (d), (e), and (f), according to the applicability in table 6 to this subpart. These reports will be made to the Administrator at the appropriate address identified in § 63.13 or submitted electronically.
(b)
Initial compliance report submission.
You must submit an initial compliance report that provides summary, monitoring system performance, and deviation information to the Administrator on April 5, 2027, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) website for one year, whichever date is later, to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as confidential business information (CBI). Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim, submit a complete report, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The CBI report must be generated using the appropriate form on the CEDRI website or an alternate electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the CEDRI website. Submit the CBI file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Commercial Sterilization Facilities Sector Lead, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. Reports of deviations from an operating limit shall include all information required in § 63.10(c)(5) through (13), as applicable in table 6 to this subpart, along with information from any calibration tests in which the monitoring equipment is not in compliance with Performance Specification 19 in appendix B and Procedure 7 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter or
the method used for parameter monitoring device calibration. Reports shall also include the name, title, and signature of the responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces this requirement. When no deviations have occurred or monitoring equipment has not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted, such information shall be stated in the report. In addition, the summary report shall include:
(1) The following information:
(i) Date that facility commenced construction or reconstruction;
(ii) Hours of commercial sterilization operation over the previous 12 months; and
(iii) Monthly EtO use, in tons, over the previous 36 months.
(iv) If you are electing to determine the mass of EtO sent to the control device from the SCV(s) via the procedure in § 63.364(f)(1)(i), you must report the daily EtO use from each applicable chamber for the previous 7 months.
(v) An indication if you are required to comply with one or more combined emission stream limitations. If so, indicate the affected sources that are included in each combined emission stream limitation.
(vi) An indication if you are electing to comply with a site-wide emission limit. If you are electing to comply with a site-wide emission limit, report the daily EtO use over the previous 7 months.
(2) If your sterilization facility is demonstrating continuous compliance through periodic performance testing, you must report the following:
(i) Control system ID;
(ii) Control device ID;
(iii) Control device type; and
(iv) Recirculation tank ID if an acid-water scrubber is used to meet the emission standard and you elect to comply with the maximum scrubber liquor height limit;
(3) You must report the following for each sterilization chamber at your facility:
(i) The sterilization chamber ID;
(ii) The ID of the control system that the SCV was routed to, if applicable;
(iii) The portion of SCV exhaust that was routed to the control system, if applicable;
(iv) The ID of the EtO CEMS that was used to monitor SCV emissions, if applicable;
(v) The portion of SCV exhaust that was monitored with the EtO CEMS, if applicable;
(vi) The ID of the control system that the CEV was routed to, if applicable;
(vii) The portion of CEV exhaust that was routed to the control system, if applicable;
(viii) The ID of the EtO CEMS that was used to monitor CEV emissions, if applicable;
(ix) The portion of CEV exhaust that was monitored with the EtO CEMS, if applicable;
(4) If emissions from any room in your facility are subject to an emission standard, you must report the following for each room where there is the potential for EtO emissions:
(i) Room ID;
(ii) Documentation of emissions occurring within the room, including aeration, EtO storage, EtO dispensing, pre-aeration handling of sterilized material, and post-aeration handling of sterilized material;
(iii) The ID of the control system that the room air was routed to, if applicable;
(iv) The portion of room air that was routed to the control system, if applicable;
(v) The ID of the EtO CEMS that was used to monitor room air emissions, if applicable;
(vi) The portion of room air that was monitored with the EtO CEMS, if applicable;
(5) If an EtO CEMS was used to demonstrate continuous compliance with an emission standard for more than 30-operating days, you must report the following:
(i) The information specified in section 11 of appendix A to this subpart.
(ii) The affected sources that are included in each inlet that is being monitored with EtO CEMS;
(iii) The IDs of each inlet(s) to and outlet(s) from each control system.
(iv) The daily sum of EtO for each inlet, along with 30-operating day rolling sums.
(v) The daily sum of EtO emissions from each outlet of the control system, along with 30-operating day rolling sums.
(vi) For each day, calculate and report the daily mass emission limit that the control system must achieve based on the previous 30 days of data. For control systems with multiple emission streams, and complying with a combined emission stream limitation in § 63.362(i) or a SWEL in § 63.362(j), report the daily 30-operating day mass emission limit as determined in accordance with CES in § 63.362(i)(1)(i) and (i)(2)(i) or with § 63.362(j)(1)(i) and (j)(2)(i), as applicable.
(vii) For each day, the mass of EtO emitted from the control system over the previous 30 operating days.
(6) If any portion of your facility is required to be operated with PTE, you must report the following:
(i) If you are choosing to demonstrate continuous compliance through the use of volumetric flow rate monitoring, you must report the 3-hr rolling average, rolled hourly volumetric flow from each outlet where air from the PTE is sent, in cubic feet per second.
(ii) If you are choosing to demonstrate continuous compliance through use of differential pressure monitoring, you must report the 3-hr rolling average, rolled hourly pressure differential reading, in inches water.
(7) If you are complying with the requirement to follow the best management practice to limit sterilization chamber concentration of EtO to 1 ppmv prior to opening the sterilization chamber door, you must provide a certification from your responsible official that this approach is being followed and you are meeting the monitoring requirements at § 63.362(h).
(8) If you own or operate an existing collection of Group 2 room air emissions at an area source facility and facility EtO use is less than 4 tpy, you must report the following for each room where there are Group 2 room air emissions:
(i) Room ID;
(ii) Number of room air changes per hour;
(iii) Room temperature, in degrees Celsius; and
(iv) EtO concentration, in ppmv dry basis (ppbvd).
(9) If you own or operate an existing collection of Group 2 room air emissions at an area source facility and EtO use is less than 4 tpy, you are not required to report the information in paragraph (b)(8) of this section if you meet the following requirements:
(i) You are complying with the best management practice to limit sterilization chamber concentration of EtO to 1 ppmv prior to opening the sterilization chamber door; and
(ii) The requirements of § 63.363 are met.
(10) Report the number of deviations to meet an applicable standard. For each instance, report the date, time, the cause and duration of each deviation. For each deviation the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to determine the emissions.
(c)
Quarterly compliance report submission.
You must submit compliance reports that provide summary, monitoring system performance, and deviation information to the Administrator within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter. Beginning on April 5, 2027, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) website for 1 year, whichever date is later, submit all subsequent reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed
on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim, submit a complete report, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The CBI report must be generated using the appropriate form on the CEDRI website or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the CEDRI website. Submit the CBI file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Commercial Sterilization Facilities Sector Lead, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Reports of deviations from an operating limit shall include all information required in § 63.10(c)(5) through (13), as applicable in table 6 to this subpart, and information from any calibration tests in which the monitoring equipment is not in compliance with Performance Specification 19 in appendix B and Procedure 7 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter or the method used for parameter monitoring device calibration. Reports shall also include the name, title, and signature of the responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces this requirement. When no deviations have occurred or monitoring equipment has not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted, such information shall be stated in the report. In addition, the summary report shall include:
(1) The information listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section, with the exception that monthly EtO use, in tons, only needs reported for the previous 12 months;
(2) If your sterilization facility is demonstrating continuous compliance through periodic performance testing, you must report the ID for any control system that has not operated since the end of the period covered by the previous compliance report. If a control system has commenced operation since end of the period covered by the previous compliance report, or if any of the information in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section has changed for a control system that was included in the previous compliance report, you must report the information in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section for those control systems;
(3) You must report the ID for any sterilization chamber that has not operated since then end of the period covered by the previous compliance report. If a sterilization chamber has commenced operation since the end of the period covered by the previous compliance report, or if any of the information in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (ix) of this section has changed for a sterilization chamber that was included in the previous compliance report, you must report the information in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (ix) of this section for those sterilization chambers;
(4) If emissions from any room in your facility are subject to an emission standard, you must report the ID for any room where there has not been the potential for EtO emissions since the end of the period covered by the previous compliance report. If a room has had the potential for EtO emissions since the end of the period covered by the previous compliance report, or if any of the information in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (vi) of this section has changed for a room where there is the potential for EtO emissions that was included in the previous compliance report, you must report the information in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (vi) of this section for those rooms;
(5) If an EtO CEMS was used to demonstrate continuous compliance, you must report the information specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(6) If any portion of your facility is required to be operated with PTE, you
must report the information listed in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(7) If you are complying with the requirement to follow the best management practice to limit sterilization chamber concentration of EtO to 1 ppmv prior to opening the sterilization chamber door, you must provide a certification from your responsible official that this approach is being followed and you are meeting the monitoring requirements at § 63.362(h).
(8) If you own or operate an existing collection of Group 2 room air emissions at an area source facility and facility EtO use is less than 4 tpy, you must report the ID for any room where Group 2 room air emissions have ceased since end of the period covered by the previous compliance report. If a room has had Group 2 room air emissions since the end of the period covered by the previous compliance report, or if any of the information in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section has changed for a room where there are Group 2 room air emissions that were included in the previous compliance report, you must report the information in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section for each room where there are Group 2 room air emissions.
(9) If you own or operate an existing collection of Group 2 room air emissions at an area source facility and facility EtO use is less than 4 tpy, you are not required to report the information in paragraph (c)(8) of this section if you meet the requirements in paragraph (b)(9) of this section.
(10) Report the number of deviations to meet an applicable standard. For each instance, report the date, time, the cause, and duration of each deviation. For each deviation, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to determine the emissions.
(d)
Construction and reconstruction application.
You must fulfill all requirements for construction or reconstruction of a facility in § 63.5, according to the applicability in table 6 to this subpart, and in this paragraph.
(1)
Applicability.
(i) This paragraph (d) and § 63.5 implement the preconstruction review requirements of section 112(i)(1) for facilities subject to these emissions standards. In addition, this paragraph (d) and § 63.5 include other requirements for constructed and reconstructed facilities that are or become subject to these emissions standards.
(ii) After April 5, 2024, the requirements in this section and in § 63.5 apply to owners or operators who construct a new facility or reconstruct a facility subject to these emissions standards after April 5, 2024. New or reconstructed facilities subject to these emissions standards with an initial startup date before the effective date are not subject to the preconstruction review requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section and § 63.5(d)(3) and (4) and (e).
(2)
Advance approval.
After April 5, 2024, whether or not an approved permit program is effective in the jurisdictional authority in which a facility is (or would be) located, no person may construct a new facility or reconstruct a facility subject to these emissions standards, or reconstruct a facility such that the facility becomes a facility subject to these emissions standards, without obtaining advance written approval from the Administrator in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and § 63.5(d)(3) and (4) and (e).
(3)
Application for approval of construction or reconstruction.
The provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section and § 63.5(d)(3) and (4) implement section 112(i)(1) of the Act.
(i)
General application requirements.
(A) An owner or operator who is subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall submit to the Administrator an application for approval of the construction of a new facility subject to these emissions standards, the reconstruction of a facility subject to these emissions standards, or the reconstruction of a facility such that the facility becomes a facility subject to these emissions standards. The application shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence (but not sooner than the effective date) if the construction or
reconstruction commences after the effective date. The application shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the initial startup date but no later than 60 days after the effective date if the construction or reconstruction had commenced and the initial startup date had not occurred before the effective date. The application for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used to fulfill the initial notification requirements of paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section. The owner or operator may submit the application for approval well in advance of the date construction or reconstruction is planned to commence in order to ensure a timely review by the Administrator and that the planned commencement date will not be delayed.
(B) A separate application shall be submitted for each construction or reconstruction. Each application for approval of construction or reconstruction shall include at a minimum:
(
1
) The applicant's name and address.
(
2
) A notification of intention to construct a new facility subject to these emissions standards or make any physical or operational change to a facility subject to these emissions standards that may meet or has been determined to meet the criteria for a reconstruction, as defined in § 63.2.
(
3
) The address (
i.e.,
physical location) or proposed address of the facility.
(
4
) An identification of the relevant standard that is the basis of the application.
(
5
) The expected commencement date of the construction or reconstruction.
(
6
) The expected completion date of the construction or reconstruction.
(
7
) The anticipated date of (initial) startup of the facility.
(
8
) The type and quantity of hazardous air pollutants emitted by the facility, reported in units and averaging times and in accordance with the test methods specified in the standard, or if actual emissions data are not yet available, an estimate of the type and quantity of hazardous air pollutants expected to be emitted by the facility reported in units and averaging times specified. The owner or operator may submit percent reduction information, if the standard is established in terms of percent reduction. However, operating parameters, such as flow rate, shall be included in the submission to the extent that they demonstrate performance and compliance.
(
9
) Other information as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section and § 63.5(d)(3).
(C) An owner or operator who submits estimates or preliminary information in place of the actual emissions data and analysis required in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(B)(
8
) and (b)(3)(ii) of this section shall submit the actual, measured emissions data and other correct information as soon as available but no later than with the notification of compliance status required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(ii)
Application for approval of construction.
Each application for approval of construction shall include, in addition to the information required in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section, technical information describing the proposed nature, size, design, operating design capacity, and method of operation of the facility subject to these emissions standards, including an identification of each point of emission for each hazardous air pollutant that is emitted (or could be emitted) and a description of the planned air pollution control system (equipment or method) for each emission point. The description of the equipment to be used for the control of emissions shall include each control device for each hazardous air pollutant and the estimated control efficiency (percent) for each control device. The description of the method to be used for the control of emissions shall include an estimated control efficiency (percent) for that method. Such technical information shall include calculations of emission estimates in sufficient detail to permit assessment of the validity of the calculations. An owner or operator who submits approximations of control efficiencies under paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall submit the actual control efficiencies as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(C) of this section.
(4)
Approval of construction or reconstruction based on prior jurisdictional authority preconstruction review.
(i) The Administrator may approve an application for construction or reconstruction
specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section and § 63.5(d)(3) and (4) if the owner or operator of a new or reconstructed facility who is subject to such requirement demonstrates to the Administrator's satisfaction that the following conditions have been (or will be) met:
(A) The owner or operator of the new or reconstructed facility subject to these emissions standards has undergone a preconstruction review and approval process in the jurisdictional authority in which the facility is (or would be) located before the effective date and has received a federally enforceable construction permit that contains a finding that the facility will meet these emissions standards as proposed, if the facility is properly built and operated;
(B) In making its finding, the jurisdictional authority has considered factors substantially equivalent to those specified in § 63.5(e)(1).
(ii) The owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator the request for approval of construction or reconstruction no later than the application deadline specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. The owner or operator shall include in the request information sufficient for the Administrator's determination. The Administrator will evaluate the owner or operator's request in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.5. The Administrator may request additional relevant information after the submittal of a request for approval of construction or reconstruction.
(e)
Notification requirements.
The owner or operator of an affected source subject to an emissions standard in § 63.362 shall fulfill all notification requirements in § 63.9, according to the applicability in table 6 to this subpart, and in this paragraph (e).
(1)
Initial notifications.
(i) If you own or operate an affected source subject to an emissions standard in § 63.362, you may use the application for approval of construction or reconstruction under paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section and § 63.5(d)(3), respectively, if relevant to fulfill the initial notification requirements.
(ii) The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed facility subject to these emissions standards that has an initial startup date after the effective date and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is required under paragraph (d)(3) of this section and § 63.5(d)(3) and (4) shall provide the following information in writing to the Administrator:
(A) A notification of intention to construct a new facility subject to these emissions standards, reconstruct a facility subject to these emissions standards, or reconstruct a facility such that the facility becomes a facility subject to these emissions standards with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction as specified in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(A) of this section;
(B) A notification of the date when construction or reconstruction was commenced, submitted simultaneously with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction, if construction or reconstruction was commenced before the effective date of these standards;
(C) A notification of the date when construction or reconstruction was commenced, delivered or postmarked no later than 30 days after such date, if construction or reconstruction was commenced after the effective date of these standards;
(D) A notification of the anticipated date of startup of the facility, delivered or postmarked not more than 60 days nor less than 30 days before such date; and
(E) A notification of the actual date of initial startup of the facility, delivered or postmarked within 15 calendar days after that date.
(iii) After the effective date, whether or not an approved permit program is effective in the jurisdictional authority in which a facility subject to these emissions standards is (or would be) located, an owner or operator who intends to construct a new facility subject to these emissions standards or reconstruct a facility subject to these emissions standards, or reconstruct a facility such that it becomes a facility subject to these emissions standards, shall notify the Administrator in writing of the intended construction or reconstruction. The notification shall be submitted as soon as practicable before
the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence (but no sooner than the effective date of these standards) if the construction or reconstruction commences after the effective date of the standard. The notification shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the initial startup date but no later than 60 days after the effective date of this standard if the construction or reconstruction had commenced and the initial startup date has not occurred before the standard's effective date. The notification shall include all the information required for an application for approval of construction or reconstruction as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section and § 63.5(d)(3) and (4). For facilities subject to these emissions standards, the application for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used to fulfill the initial notification requirements of § 63.9.
(2) If an owner or operator of a facility subject to these emissions standards submits estimates or preliminary information in the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section and § 63.5(d)(3), respectively, in place of the actual emissions data or control efficiencies required in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(B)(
8
) and (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit the actual emissions data and other correct information as soon as available but no later than with the initial notification of compliance status.
(3) If you own or operate an affected source subject to an emissions standard in § 63.362, you must also include the amount of EtO used at the facility during the previous consecutive 12-month period in the initial notification report required by § 63.9(b)(2) and (3). For new sterilization facilities subject to this subpart, the amount of EtO used at the facility shall be an estimate of expected use during the first consecutive 12-month period of operation.
(4) Beginning October 7, 2024, you must submit all subsequent Notification of Compliance Status reports in PDF formatto the EPA following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Commercial Sterilization Sector Lead.
(f)
Performance test submission.
Beginning on June 4, 2024, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.
Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2)
Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.
The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
(3)
CBI.
Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same
file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.
(g)
Performance evaluation submission.
Beginning on June 4, 2024, within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation (as defined in § 63.2), you must submit the results of the performance evaluation following the procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Performance evaluations of CEMS measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation.
Submit the results of the performance evaluation to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX. The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2)
Performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation.
The results of the performance evaluation must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
(3)
CBI.
Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (g)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The CBI file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the CBI file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.
(h)
Extensions for CDX/CEDRI outages.
If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(i)
Extensions for force majeure events.
If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of
force majeure
for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of
force majeure,
you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You may submit a claim if a
force majeure
event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a
force majeure
event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) You must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the
force majeure
event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the
force majeure
event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of
force majeure
and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.
§ 63.367
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) If you own or operate an affected source subject to § 63.362, you must comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.10(a) through (c), according to the applicability in table 6 to this subpart, and in this section. All records required to be maintained by this subpart or a subpart referenced by this subpart shall be maintained in such a manner that they can be readily accessed and are suitable for inspection.
(b) You must maintain the previous five years of records specified in § 63.366(b) and (c), as applicable.
(c) You must maintain the previous five years of records for compliance tests and associated data analysis, as applicable.
(d) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
(e) If you are using an EtO CEMS to demonstrate continuous compliance, you must maintain the previous five years of records for all required certification and QA tests.
(f) For each deviation from an emission limit, operating limit, or best management practice, you must keep a record of the information specified in paragraph (g)(1) through (4) of this section. The records shall be maintained as specified in § 63.10(b)(1).
(1) The occurrence and duration of each startup, shutdown, or malfunction of process, air pollution control, and monitoring equipment.
(2) In the event that an affected unit does not meet an applicable standard, record the number of deviations. For each deviation, record the date, time, cause, and duration of each deviation.
(3) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(4) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.362(k) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.
§ 63.368
Implementation and enforcement.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out whether implementation and enforcement of this subpart are delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.360 and 63.362.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(5) Approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.

# Table 1 to Subpart O of Part 63—Standards for SCVs
As required in § 63.362(c), for each SCV, you must meet the applicable standard in the following table:
For each . . .
For which . . .
You must . . .
You must comply with the standard . . .
1. Existing SCV
a. Facility EtO use is at least 10 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99 percent
1
Until April 6, 2026.
b. Facility EtO use is at least 1 tpy but less than 10 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99 percent
1
Until April 6, 2026.
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.8 percent
2 3
No later than April 6, 2026.
c. Facility EtO use is at least 30 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.99 percent
2 3
No later than April 6, 2026.
d. Facility EtO use is at least 10 tpy but less than 30 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.9 percent
2 3
No later than April 6, 2026.
e. Facility EtO use is less than 1 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99 percent
2 4
No later than April 5, 2027.
2. New SCV
a. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 30 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.99 percent
2 5
No later than April 5, 2024.
b. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 10 tpy but less than 30 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.9 percent
2 5
No later than April 5, 2024.
c. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 1 tpy but less than 10 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.8 percent
2 5
No later than April 5, 2024.
d. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is less than 1 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99 percent
2 6
No later than April 5, 2024.
e. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 30 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.99 percent
2 5
Upon startup of the source.
f. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 10 tpy but less than 30 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.9 percent
2 5
Upon startup of the source.
g. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 1 tpy but less than 10 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.8 percent
2 5
Upon startup of the source.
h. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is less than 1 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99 percent
2 6
Upon startup of the source.
1
The standard applies if the facility has met or exceeded the specified EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after December 6, 1996.
2
If using EtO CEMS to determine compliance, this standard is based on the previous 30 operating days of data.
3
The standard applies if the facility has met or exceeded the specified EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 7, 2025.
4
The standard applies if the facility has used less than 1 tpy of EtO within all consecutive 12-month periods after April 6, 2026.
5
The standard applies if the facility is expected to meet or exceed the specified EtO use within one year after startup. Afterwards, the standard applies if the facility has met or exceeded the specified EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after startup.
6
The standard applies if the facility is not expected to meet or exceed 1 tpy of EtO use within one year after startup. Afterwards, the standard applies if the facility has used less than 1 tpy of EtO within all consecutive 12-month periods after startup.

# Table 2 to Subpart O of Part 63—Standards for ARVs
As required in § 63.362(d), for each ARV, you must meet the applicable standard in the following table:
For each . . .
For which . . .
You must . . .
You must comply with the standard . . .
1. Existing ARV
a. Facility EtO use is at least 10 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99 percent
1
Until April 6, 2026.
b. Facility EtO use is at least 30 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.9 percent
2 3
No later than April 6, 2026.
c. Facility EtO use is at least 10 tpy but less than 30 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.6 percent
2 3
No later than April 6, 2026.
d. Facility EtO use is less than 10 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99 percent
2 4
No later than April 5, 2027.
2. New ARV
a. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 10 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.9 percent
2 5
No later than April 5, 2024.
b. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is less than 10 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99 percent
2 6
No later than April 5, 2024.
c. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 10 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.9 percent
2 5
Upon startup of the source.
d. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is less than 10 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99 percent
2 6
Upon startup of the source.
1
The standard applies if the facility has met or exceeded the specified EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after December 6, 1996.
2
If using CEMS to determine compliance, this standard is based on a rolling 30-operating day average.
3
The standard applies if the facility has met or exceeded the specified EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 7, 2025.
4
The standard applies if the facility has used less than 10 tpy of EtO within all consecutive 12-month periods after April 6, 2026.
5
The standard applies if the facility is expected to meet or exceed the specified EtO use within one year after startup. Afterwards, the standard applies if the facility has met or exceeded the specified EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after startup.
6
The standard applies if the facility is not expected to meet or exceed 10 tpy of EtO use within one year after startup. Afterwards, the standard applies if the facility has used less than 10 tpy of EtO within all consecutive 12-month periods after startup.

# Table 3 to Subpart O of Part 63—Standards for CEVs
As required in § 63.362(e), for each CEV, you must meet the applicable standard in the following table:
For each . . .
For which . . .
You must . . .
You must comply with the standard . . .
1. Existing CEV at a major source facility
a. Not applicable
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.94 percent
1
No later than April 5, 2027.
2. Existing CEV at an area source facility
a. Facility EtO use is at least 60 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.9 percent
1 2
No later than April 6, 2026.
b. Facility EtO use is less than 60 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99 percent
1 3
No later than April 5, 2027.
3. New CEV at a major source facility
a. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.94 percent
1
No later than April 5, 2024.
b. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.94 percent
1
Upon startup of the source.
4. New CEV at an area source facility
a. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 60 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.9 percent
1 4
No later than April 5, 2024.
b. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024, facility EtO use is less than 60 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99 percent
1 5
No later than April 5, 2024.
c. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 60 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99.9 percent
1 4
Upon startup of the source.
d. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024, facility EtO use is less than 60 tpy
i. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 99 percent
1 5
Upon startup of the source.
1
If using CEMS to determine compliance, this standard is based on a rolling 30-operating day average.
2
The standard applies if the facility has met or exceeded the specified EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 7, 2025.
3
The standard applies if the facility has used less than 60 tpy of EtO within all consecutive 12-month periods after April 6, 2026.
4
The standard applies if the facility is expected to meet or exceed the specified EtO use within one year after startup. Afterwards, the standard applies if the facility has met or exceeded the specified EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after startup.
5
The standard applies if the facility is not expected to meet or exceed 60 tpy of EtO use within one year after startup. Afterwards, the standard applies if the facility has used less than 60 tpy of EtO within all consecutive 12-month periods after startup.

# Table 4 to Subpart O of Part 63—Standards for Group 1 Room Air Emissions
As required in § 63.362(f), for your collection of Group 1 room air emissions at each facility, you must meet the applicable standard in the following table:
For each . . .
For which . . .
You must . . .
You must comply with the requirement(s) . . .
1. Existing collection of Group 1 room air emissions at a major source facility
a. Not applicable
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 1 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system. Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 97 percent
1
No later than April 5, 2027.
2. Existing collection of Group 1 room air emissions at an area source facility
a. Facility EtO use is at least 40 tpy
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 1 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system.
2
Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 98 percent
1
2
No later than April 6, 2026.
b. Facility EtO use is less than 40 tpy
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 1 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system. Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 80 percent
1
3
No later than April 5, 2027.
3. New collection of Group 1 room air emissions at a major source facility
a. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 1 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system. Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 97 percent
1
No later than April 5, 2024.
b. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 1 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system. Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 97 percent
1
Upon startup of the source.
4. New collection of Group 1 room air emissions at an area source facility
a. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 40 tpy
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 1 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system.
4
Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 98 percent
1
4
No later than April 5, 2024.
b. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is less than 40 tpy
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 1 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system.
5
Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 80 percent
1
5
No later than April 5, 2024.
c. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 40 tpy
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 1 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system.
4
Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 98 percent
1
4
Upon startup of the source.
d. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is less than 40 tpy
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 1 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system.
5
Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 80 percent
1
5
Upon startup of the source.
1
If using CEMS to determine compliance, this standard is based on a rolling 30-operating day average.
2
The standard applies if the facility has met or exceeded the specified EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 7, 2025.
3
The standard applies if the facility has used less than 40 tpy of EtO within all consecutive 12-month periods after April 6, 2026.
4
The standard applies if the facility is expected to meet or exceed the specified EtO use within one year after startup. Afterwards, the standard applies if the facility has met or exceeded the specified EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after startup.
5
The standard applies if the facility is not expected to meet or exceed 40 tpy of EtO use within one year after startup. Afterwards, the standard applies if the facility has used less than 40 tpy of EtO within all consecutive 12-month periods after startup.

# Table 5 to Subpart O of Part 63—Standards for Group 2 Room Air Emissions
As required in § 63.362(g), for your collection of Group 2 room air emissions, you must meet the applicable standard in the following table:
For each . . .
For which . . .
You must . . .
You must comply with the requirement(s) . . .
1. Existing collection of Group 2 room air emissions at a major source facility
a. Not applicable
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 2 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system. Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 86 percent
1
No later than April 5, 2027.
2. Existing collection of Group 2 room air emissions at an area source facility
a. Facility EtO use is at least 20 tpy
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 2 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system.
2
Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 98 percent
1
2
No later than April 6, 2026.
b. Facility EtO use is at least 4 tpy but less than 20 tpy
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 2 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system.
2
Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 80 percent
1
2
No later than April 6, 2026.
c. Facility EtO use is less than 4 tpy
Lower the EtO concentration within each sterilization chamber to 1 ppm before the chamber can be opened
3
No later than April 5, 2027.
3. New collection of Group 2 room air emissions at a major source facility
a. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 2 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system. Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 86 percent
1
No later than April 5, 2024.
b. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 2 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system. Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 86 percent
1
Upon startup of the source.
4. New collection of Group 2 room air emissions at an area source facility
a. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 20 tpy
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 2 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system.
5
Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 98 percent
1
5
No later than April 5, 2024.
b. Initial startup is on or before April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is less than 20 tpy
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 2 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system.
6
Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 80 percent
1
6
No later than April 5, 2024.
c. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is at least 20 tpy
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 2 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system.
5
Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 98 percent
1
5
Upon startup of the source.
d. Initial startup is after April 5, 2024, and facility EtO use is less than 20 tpy
i. Operate all areas of the facility that contain Group 2 room air emissions with PTE, with all exhaust gas streams being captured and routed to a control system.
6
Also,
ii. Continuously reduce EtO emissions by 80 percent
1
6
Upon startup of the source.
1
This standard is based on a rolling 30-operating day average.
2
The standard applies if the facility has met or exceeded the specified EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after April 7, 2025.
3
The standard applies if the facility has used less than 4 tpy of EtO within all consecutive 12-month periods after April 6, 2026.
4
The standard applies if the facility is expected to meet or exceed the specified EtO use within one year after startup. Afterwards, the standard applies if the facility has met or exceeded the specified EtO use within any consecutive 12-month period after startup.
5
The standard applies if the facility is not expected to meet or exceed 20 tpy of EtO use within one year after startup. Afterwards, the standard applies if the facility has used less than 20 tpy of EtO within all consecutive 12-month periods after startup.

# Table 6 to Subpart O of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to This Subpart
As specified in § 63.360, the parts of the General Provisions that apply to you are shown in the following table:
Citation
Subject
Applies to subpart O
§ 63.1(a)(1)
Applicability
Yes, additional terms defined in § 63.361; when overlap between subparts A and O occurs, subpart O takes precedence.
§ 63.1(a)(2)-(3)
Yes.
§ 63.1(a)(4)
Yes. Subpart O clarifies the applicability of each paragraph in subpart A to facilities subject to subpart O.
§ 63.1(a)(5)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.1(a)(6)-(8)
Yes.
§ 63.1(a)(9)
[Reserved]
§ 63.1(a)(10)-(14)
Yes.
§ 63.1(b)(1)-(2)
Yes.
§ 63.1(b)(3)
No.
§ 63.1(c)(1)
No. Subpart O clarifies the applicability of each paragraph in subpart A to facilities subject to subpart O in this table.
§ 63.1(c)(2)
Yes.
§ 63.1(c)(3)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.1(c)(4)
Yes.
§ 63.1(c)(5)
No. § 63.360 specifies applicability.
§ 63.1(c)(6)
Yes.
§ 63.1(d)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.1(e)
Yes.
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes, additional terms defined in § 63.361; when overlap between subparts A and O occurs, subpart O takes precedence.
§ 63.3
Units and abbreviations
Yes, other units used in subpart O are defined in the text of subpart O.
§ 63.4(a)(1)-(3)
Prohibited activities
Yes.
§ 63.5(a)
Construction/Reconstruction
No. § 63.366(b)(1) contains applicability requirements for constructed or reconstructed facilities.
§ 63.5(b)(1)
Yes.
§ 63.5(b)(2)
[Reserved]
§ 63.5(b)(3)
No. See § 63.366(b)(2).
§ 63.5(b)(4)-(6)
Yes.
§ 63.5(c)
[Reserved]
§ 63.5(d)(1)-(2)
No. See § 63.366(b)(3).
§ 63.5(d)(3)-(4)
Yes.
§ 63.5(e)
Yes.
§ 63.5(f)(1)-(2)
No. See § 63.366(b)(4).
§ 63.6(a)
Applicability
Yes.
§ 63.6(b)-(c)
No. § 63.360(j) specifies compliance dates for facilities.
§ 63.6(d)
[Reserved]
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)
No.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(ii)
Requirement to correct malfunctions ASAP
No.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Yes.
§ 63.6(e)(2)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.6(e)(3)
SSM Plan Requirements
No.
§ 63.6(f)(1)
SSM exemption
No.
§ 63.6(f)(2)(i)
Methods for Determining Compliance
Yes.
§ 63.6(f)(2)(ii)
No. § 63.363 specifies parameters for determining compliance.
§ 63.6(f)(2)(iii)-(iv)
Yes.
§ 63.6(f)(2)(v)
No.
§ 63.6(f)(3)
Yes.
§ 63.6(g)
Alternative Standard
Yes.
§ 63.6(h)
Compliance with opacity and visible emission standards
No. Subpart O does not contain any opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.6(i)(1)-(14), and (16)
Compliance Extension
Yes.
§ 63.6(j)
Presidential Compliance Exemption
Yes.
§ 63.7(a)
Applicability and Performance Test Dates
Yes.
§ 63.7(b)
Notification of Performance Test
Yes.
§ 63.7(c)
Quality Assurance/Test Plan
Yes.
§ 63.7(d)
Testing Facilities
Yes.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
SSM exemption
No.
§ 63.7(e)(2)-(4)
Conduct of Performance Tests
Yes. § 63.365 also contains test methods specific to facilities subject to the emissions standards.
§ 63.7(f)
Alternative Test Method
Yes.
§ 63.7(g)
Performance Test Data Analysis
Yes, except this subpart specifies how and when the performance test and performance evaluation results are reported.
§ 63.7(h)
Waiver of Tests
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(1)
Applicability of Monitoring Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(2)
Performance Specifications
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(3)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Monitoring with Flares
Yes.
§ 63.8(b)(1)
Monitoring
Yes.
§ 63.8(b)(2)-(3)
Multiple Effluents and Multiple Monitoring Systems
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(i)
General duty to minimize emissions and CMS operation
No.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(ii)
No. A startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required for these standards.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(iii)
Requirement to develop SSM Plan for CMS
No.
§ 63.8(c)(2)-(3)
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(4)-(5)
No. Frequency of monitoring measurements is provided in § 63.364; opacity monitors are not required for these standards.
§ 63.8(c)(6)
No. Performance specifications are contained in § 63.365.
§ 63.8(c)(7)(i)(A)-(B)
No. Performance specifications are contained in § 63.365.
§ 63.8(c)(7)(i)(C)
No. Opacity monitors are not required for these standards.
§ 63.8(c)(7)(ii)
No. Performance specifications are contained in § 63.365.
§ 63.8(c)(8)
No.
§ 63.8(d)(1)-(2)
Yes.
§ 63.8(d)(3)
Written procedures for CMS
No.
§ 63.8(e)(1)
CMS Performance Evaluation
Yes, but only applies for CEMS, except this subpart specifies how and when the performance evaluation results are reported.
§ 63.8(e)(2)
Yes.
§ 63.8(e)(3)
Yes.
§ 63.8(e)(4)
Yes.
§ 63.8(e)(5)(i)
Yes.
§ 63.8(e)(5)(ii)
No. Opacity monitors are not required for these standards.
§ 63.8(f)(1)-(5)
Yes.
§ 63.8(f)(6)
No.
§ 63.8(g)(1)
Yes.
§ 63.8(g)(2)
No.
§ 63.8(g)(3)-(5)
Yes.
§ 63.9(a)
Notification requirements
Yes.
§ 63.9(b)(1)-(i)
Yes.
§ 63.9(b)(1)(ii)-(iii)
Initial Notifications
No. § 63.366(c)(1)(i) contains language for facilities that increase usage such that the source becomes subject to the emissions standards.
§ 63.9(b)(2)-(3)
Initial Notifications
Yes. § 63.366(c)(3) contains additional information to be included in the initial report for existing and new facilities.
§ 63.9(b)(4)-(5)
Initial Notifications
No. § 63.366(c)(1)(ii) and (iii) contains requirements for new or reconstructed facilities subject to the emissions standards.
§ 63.9(c)
Request for Compliance Extension
Yes.
§ 63.9(d)
Notification of Special Compliance Requirements for New Sources
No.
§ 63.9(e)
Notification of Performance Test
Yes.
§ 63.9(f)
Notification of VE/Opacity Test
No. Opacity monitors are not required for these standards.
§ 63.9(g)(1)
Additional Notifications When Using CMS
Yes.
§ 63.9(g)(2)-(3)
Additional Notifications When Using CMS
No. Opacity monitors and relative accuracy testing are not required for these standards.
§ 63.9(h)(1)-(3)
Notification of Compliance Status
Yes, except § 63.9(h)(5) does not apply because § 63.366(c)(2) instructs facilities to submit actual data.
§ 63.9(i)
Adjustment of Submittal Deadlines
Yes.
§ 63.9(j)
Change in previous information
Yes.
§ 63.9(k)
Electronic reporting procedures
Yes, as specified in § 63.9(j).
§ 63.10(a)
Recordkeeping/Reporting
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(1)
Recordkeeping/Reporting
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)
Recordkeeping for startup and shutdown
No. See 63.367(f) for recordkeeping requirements.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(ii)
Recordkeeping for SSM and failures to meet standards
No. See 63.367(f) for recordkeeping requirements.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Records related to maintenance of air pollution control equipment
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iv)-(v)
Actions taken to minimize emissions during SSM
No.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vi)
CMS Records
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vii)-(ix)
Records
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(x)-(xi)
CMS Records
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xii)
Records
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiii)
Records
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiv)
Records
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(3)
Records
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)(1)-(14)
Records
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)(15)
Use of SSM Plan
No.
§ 63.10(d)(1)
General Reporting Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(2)
Report of Performance Test Results
No. This subpart specifies how and when the performance test results are reported.
§ 63.10(d)(3)
Reporting Opacity or VE Observations
No. Subpart O does not contain opacity or visible emissions standards.
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Progress Reports
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(5)
SSM Reports
No. See § 63.366 for malfunction reporting requirements.
§ 63.10(e)(1)
Additional CEMS Reports
Yes.
§ 63.10(e)(2)(i)
Additional CMS Reports
Yes, except this subpart specifies how and when the performance evaluation results are reported.
§ 63.10(e)(2)(ii)
Additional COMS Reports
No. Opacity monitors are not required for these standards.
§ 63.10(e)(3)(i)-(iv)
Reports
Yes.
§ 63.10(e)(3)(v)
Excess Emissions Reports
No. § 63.366(b) and (c) specify contents and submittal dates for excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports.
§ 63.10(e)(3)(vi)-(viii)
Excess Emissions Report and Summary Report
Yes.
§ 63.10(e)(4)
Reporting COMS data
No. Opacity monitors are not required for these standards.
§ 63.10(f)
Waiver for Recordkeeping/Reporting
Yes.
§ 63.11
Control device requirements for flares and work practice requirements for equipment leaks
Yes.
§ 63.12
Delegation
Yes.
§ 63.13
Addresses
Yes.
§ 63.14
Incorporation by Reference
Yes.
§ 63.15
Availability of Information
Yes.

# Appendix A to Subpart O of Part 63—Monitoring Provisions for EtO CEMS

# 1. Applicability
These monitoring provisions apply to the measurement of EtO emissions from commercial sterilization facilities, using CEMS. The CEMS must be capable of measuring EtO in lb/hr.

# 2. Monitoring of EtO Emissions
2.1
Monitoring System Installation Requirements.
Install EtO CEMS and any additional monitoring systems needed to convert pollutant concentrations to lb/hr in accordance with § 63.365 and Performance Specification 19 (PS 19) of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.
2.2
Primary and Backup Monitoring Systems.
In the electronic monitoring plan described in section 10.1.1.2.1 of this appendix, you must designate a primary EtO CEMS. The primary EtO CEMS must be used to report hourly EtO concentration values when the system is able to provide quality-assured data,
i.e.,
when the system is “in control”. However, to increase data availability in the event of a primary monitoring system outage, you may install, operate, maintain, and calibrate backup monitoring systems, as follows:
2.2.1
Redundant Backup Systems.
A redundant backup monitoring system is a separate EtO CEMS with its own probe, sample interface, and analyzer. A redundant backup system is one that is permanently installed at the unit or stack location and is kept on “hot standby” in case the primary monitoring system is unable to provide quality-assured data. A redundant backup system must be represented as a unique monitoring system in the electronic monitoring plan. Each redundant backup monitoring system must be certified according to the applicable provisions in section 3 of this appendix and must meet the applicable on-going QA requirements in section 5 of this appendix.
2.2.2
Non-redundant Backup Monitoring Systems.
A non-redundant backup monitoring system is a separate EtO CEMS that has been certified at a particular unit or stack location but is not permanently installed at that location. Rather, the system is kept on “cold standby” and may be reinstalled in the
event of a primary monitoring system outage. A nonredundant backup monitoring system must be represented as a unique monitoring system in the electronic monitoring plan. Non-redundant backup EtO CEMS must complete the same certification tests as the primary monitoring system, with one exception. The 7-day calibration error test is not required for a non-redundant backup EtO CEMS. Except as otherwise provided in section 2.2.4.4 of this appendix, a non-redundant backup monitoring system may only be used for 720 hours per year at a particular unit or stack location.
2.2.3
Temporary Like-kind Replacement Analyzers.
When a primary EtO analyzer needs repair or maintenance, you may temporarily install a like-kind replacement analyzer, to minimize data loss. Except as otherwise provided in section 2.2.4.4 of this appendix, a temporary like-kind replacement analyzer may only be used for 720 hours per year at a particular unit or stack location. The analyzer must be represented as a component of the primary EtO CEMS and must be assigned a 3-character component ID number, beginning with the prefix “LK”.
2.2.4
Quality Assurance Requirements for Non-redundant Backup Monitoring Systems and Temporary Like-kind Replacement Analyzers.
To quality-assure the data from non-redundant backup EtO monitoring systems and temporary like-kind replacement EtO analyzers, the following provisions apply:
2.2.4.1 When a certified non-redundant backup EtO CEMS or a temporary like-kind replacement EtO analyzer is brought into service, a calibration error test and a linearity check must be performed and passed. A single point system integrity check is also required.
2.2.4.2 Each non-redundant backup EtO CEMS or temporary like-kind replacement EtO analyzer shall comply with all required daily, weekly, and quarterly quality-assurance test requirements in section 5 of this appendix, for as long as the system or analyzer remains in service.
2.2.4.3 For the routine, on-going quality-assurance of a non-redundant backup EtO monitoring system, a relative accuracy test audit (RATA) must be performed and passed at least once every 8 calendar quarters at the unit or stack location(s) where the system will be used.
2.2.4.4 To use a non-redundant backup EtO monitoring system or a temporary like-kind replacement analyzer for more than 720 hours per year at a particular unit or stack location, a RATA must first be performed and passed at that location.
2.3
Monitoring System Equipment, Supplies, Definitions, and General Operation.
The following provisions apply:
2.3.1 PS 19, Sections 3.0, 6.0, and 11.0 of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.

# 3. Initial Certification Procedures
The initial certification procedures for the EtO CEMS used to provide data under this subpart are as follows:
3.1 Your EtO CEMS must be certified according to PS 19, section(s) 13.
3.2 Any additional stack gas flow rate monitoring system(s) needed to express pollutant concentrations in lb/hr must be certified according to part 75 of this chapter.

# 4. Recertification Procedures
Whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change to a certified CEMS that may significantly affect the ability of the system to accurately measure or record pollutant gas concentrations or stack gas flow rates, the owner or operator shall recertify the monitoring system. Furthermore, whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change to the flue gas handling system or the unit operation that may significantly change the concentration or flow profile, the owner or operator shall recertify the monitoring system. The same tests performed for the initial certification of the monitoring system shall be repeated for recertification, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator. Examples of changes that require recertification include: Replacement of a gas analyzer; complete monitoring system replacement, and changing the location or orientation of the sampling probe.

# 5. On-Going Quality Assurance Requirements
On-going QA test requirements for EtO CEMS must be implemented as follows:
5.1 The quality assurance/quality control procedures in Procedure 7 of appendix F to part 60 of this chapter shall apply.
5.2 Stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems must meet the applicable ongoing QA test requirements of part 75 of this chapter.
5.2.1
Out-of-Control Periods.
A EtO CEMS that is used to provide data under this appendix is considered to be out-of-control, and data from the CEMS may not be reported as quality-assured, when any acceptance criteria for a required QA test is not met. The EtO CEMS is also considered to be out-of-control when a required QA test is not performed on schedule or within an allotted grace period. To end an out-of-control period, the QA test that was either failed or not done on time must be performed and passed. Out-of-control periods are counted as hours of monitoring system downtime.
5.2.2
Grace Periods.
For the purposes of this appendix, a “grace period” is defined as a specified number of unit or stack operating hours after the deadline for a required quality-assurance test of a continuous monitor
has passed, in which the test may be performed and passed without loss of data.
5.2.2.1 For the flow rate monitoring systems described in section 5.1 of this appendix, a 168 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for quarterly linearity checks, and a 720 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for RATAs, as provided, respectively, in sections 2.2.4 and 2.3.3 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
5.2.2.2 For the purposes of this appendix, if the deadline for a required gas audit or RATA of a EtO CEMS cannot be met due to circumstances beyond the control of the owner or operator:
5.2.2.2.1 A 168 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available in which to perform the gas audit; or
5.2.2.2.2 A 720 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available in which to perform the RATA.
5.2.2.3 If a required QA test is performed during a grace period, the deadline for the next test shall be determined as follows:
5.2.2.3.1 For the gas audit of an EtO CEMS, the grace period test only satisfies the audit requirement for the calendar quarter in which the test was originally due. If the calendar quarter in which the grace period audit is performed is a QA operating quarter, an additional gas audit is required for that quarter.
5.2.2.3.2 For the RATA of an EtO CEMS, the next RATA is due within three QA operating quarters after the calendar quarter in which the grace period test is performed.
5.2.3
Conditional Data Validation.
For recertification and diagnostic testing of the monitoring systems that are used to provide data under this appendix, and for the required QA tests when nonredundant backup monitoring systems or temporary like-kind replacement analyzers are brought into service, the conditional data validation provisions in §§ 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through (b)(3)(ix) of this chapter may be used to avoid or minimize data loss. The allotted window of time to complete calibration tests and RATAs shall be as specified in § 75.20(b)(3)(iv) of this chapter; the allotted window of time to complete a gas audit shall be the same as for a linearity check (
i.e.,
168 unit or stack operating hours).
5.3
Data Validation.
5.3.1
Out-of-Control Periods.
An EtO CEMS that is used to provide data under this appendix is considered to be out-of-control, and data from the CEMS may not be reported as quality-assured, when any acceptance criteria for a required QA test is not met. The EtO CEMS is also considered to be out-of-control when a required QA test is not performed on schedule or within an allotted grace period. To end an out-of-control period, the QA test that was either failed or not done on time must be performed and passed. Out-of-control periods are counted as hours of monitoring system downtime.
5.3.2
Grace Periods.
For the purposes of this appendix, a “grace period” is defined as a specified number of unit or stack operating hours after the deadline for a required quality-assurance test of a continuous monitor has passed, in which the test may be performed and passed without loss of data.
5.3.2.1 For the monitoring systems described in section 5.1 of this appendix, a 168 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for quarterly linearity checks, and a 720 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for RATAs, as provided, respectively, in sections 2.2.4 and 2.3.3 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
5.3.2.2 For the purposes of this appendix, if the deadline for a required gas audit/data accuracy assessment or RATA of an EtO CEMS cannot be met due to circumstances beyond the control of the owner or operator:
5.3.2.2.1 A 168 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available in which to perform the gas audit or other quarterly data accuracy assessment; or
5.3.2.2.2 A 720 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available in which to perform the RATA.
5.3.2.3 If a required QA test is performed during a grace period, the deadline for the next test shall be determined as follows:
5.3.2.3.1 For a gas audit or RATA of the monitoring systems described in sections 5.1 and 5.2 of this appendix, determine the deadline for the next gas audit or RATA (as applicable) in accordance with section 2.2.4(b) or 2.3.3(d) of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter; treat a gas audit in the same manner as a linearity check.
5.3.2.3.2 For the gas audit or other quarterly data accuracy assessment of an EtO CEMS, the grace period test only satisfies the audit requirement for the calendar quarter in which the test was originally due. If the calendar quarter in which the grace period audit is performed is a QA operating quarter, an additional gas audit/data accuracy assessment is required for that quarter.
5.3.2.3.3 For the RATA of an EtO CEMS, the next RATA is due within three QA operating quarters after the calendar quarter in which the grace period test is performed.
5.3.3
Conditional Data Validation.
For recertification and diagnostic testing of the monitoring systems that are used to provide data under this appendix, the conditional data validation provisions in § 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through (ix) of this chapter may be used to avoid or minimize data loss. The allotted window of time to complete calibration tests and RATAs shall be as specified in § 75.20(b)(3)(iv) of this chapter; the allotted window of time to complete a quarterly gas audit or data accuracy assessment shall be the same as for a linearity check (
i.e.,
168 unit or stack operating hours).

# 6. Missing Data Requirements
For the purposes of this appendix, the owner or operator of an affected unit shall not substitute for missing data from EtO CEMS. Any process operating hour for which quality-assured EtO concentration data are not obtained is counted as an hour of monitoring system downtime.

# 7. Bias Adjustment
Bias adjustment of hourly emissions data from an EtO CEMS is not required.

# 8. QA/QC Program Requirements
The owner or operator shall develop and implement a quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) program for the EtO CEMS that are used to provide data under this subpart. At a minimum, the program shall include a written plan that describes in detail (or that refers to separate documents containing) complete, step-by-step procedures and operations for the most important QA/QC activities. Electronic storage of the QA/QC plan is permissible, provided that the information can be made available in hard copy to auditors and inspectors. The QA/QC program requirements for the other monitoring systems described in section 5.2 of this appendix are specified in section 1 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
8.1
General Requirements for EtO CEMS.
8.1.1
Preventive Maintenance.
Keep a written record of procedures needed to maintain the EtO CEMS in proper operating condition and a schedule for those procedures. This shall, at a minimum, include procedures specified by the manufacturers of the equipment and, if applicable, additional or alternate procedures developed for the equipment.
8.1.2
Recordkeeping and Reporting.
Keep a written record describing procedures that will be used to implement the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this appendix.
8.1.3
Maintenance Records.
Keep a record of all testing, maintenance, or repair activities performed on any EtO CEMS in a location and format suitable for inspection. A maintenance log may be used for this purpose. The following records should be maintained: Date, time, and description of any testing, adjustment, repair, replacement, or preventive maintenance action performed on any monitoring system and records of any corrective actions associated with a monitor outage period. Additionally, any adjustment that may significantly affect a system's ability to accurately measure emissions data must be recorded and a written explanation of the procedures used to make the adjustment(s) shall be kept.
8.2
Specific Requirements for EtO CEMS.
The following requirements are specific to EtO CEMS:
8.2.1 Keep a written record of the procedures used for each type of QA test required for each EtO CEMS. Explain how the results of each type of QA test are calculated and evaluated.
8.2.2 Explain how each component of the EtO CEMS will be adjusted to provide correct responses to calibration gases after routine maintenance, repairs, or corrective actions.

# 9. Data Reduction and Calculations
9.1 Design and operate the EtO CEMS to complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.
9.2 Reduce the EtO concentration data to hourly averages in accordance with § 60.13(h)(2) of this chapter.
9.3 Convert each hourly average EtO concentration to an EtO mass emission rate (lb/hr) using an equation that has the general form of equation A-1 of this appendix:
ER05AP24.045
Where:
E
ho
= EtO mass emission rate for the hour, lb/hr
K = Units conversion constant, 1.144E-10 lb/scf-ppbv,
Ch = Hourly average EtO concentration, ppbv,
Q
h
= Stack gas volumetric flow rate for the hour, scfh.
(
Note:
Use unadjusted flow rate values; bias adjustment is not required.)
9.4 Use equation A-2 of this appendix to calculate the daily total EtO emissions. Report each daily total to the same precision as the most stringent standard that applies to any affected source exhausting to the emission stream (
e.g.,
if the emission stream includes contributions from an SCV and ARV subject to 99.99% and 99.9% emission reduction standards, respectively, report to four significant figures), expressed in scientific notation.
ER05AP24.046
Where:
E
day
= Total daily EtO emissions, lb.
E
ho
= Hourly EtO emission rate for unit or stack sampling hour “h” in the averaging period, from equation A-1 of this appendix, lb/hr.
9.5 Use equation A-3 of this appendix to calculate the 30-operating day rolling total EtO emissions. Report each 30-operating day rolling total to the same precision as the most stringent standard that applies to any affected source exhausting to the emission stream (
e.g.,
if the emission stream includes contributions from an SCV and ARV subject to 99.99% and 99.9% emission reduction standards, respectively, report to four significant figures), expressed in scientific notation.
ER05AP24.047
Where:
E
30day
= Total EtO emissions during the 30-operating day, lb.
E
day,i
= Total daily EtO emissions, in lbs, for each operating day
i
from equation A-2 of this appendix, lb.
i
= Operating day index.

# 10. Recordkeeping Requirements
10.1 For each EtO CEMS installed at an affected source, and for any other monitoring system(s) needed to convert pollutant concentrations to units of the applicable emissions limit, the owner or operator must maintain a file of all measurements, data, reports, and other information required by this appendix in a form suitable for inspection, for 5 years from the date of each record, in accordance with § 63.367. The file shall contain the information in paragraphs 10.1.1 through 10.1.8 of this section.
10.1.1
Monitoring Plan Records.
For each affected source or group of sources monitored at a common stack, the owner or operator shall prepare and maintain a monitoring plan for the EtO CEMS and any other monitoring system(s) (
i.e.,
flow rate, diluent gas, or moisture systems) needed to convert pollutant concentrations to units of the applicable emission standard. The monitoring plan shall contain essential information on the continuous monitoring systems and shall explain how the data derived from these systems ensure that all EtO emissions from the unit or stack are monitored and reported.
10.1.1.1
Updates.
Whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change in a certified continuous EtO monitoring system that is used to provide data under this subpart (including a change in the automated data acquisition and handling system or the flue gas handling system) which affects information reported in the monitoring plan (
e.g.,
a change to a serial number for a component of a monitoring system), the owner or operator shall update the monitoring plan.
10.1.1.2
Contents of the Monitoring Plan.
For EtO CEMS, the monitoring plan shall contain the applicable electronic and hard copy information in sections 10.1.1.2.1 and 10.1.1.2.2 of this appendix. For stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems, the monitoring plan shall include the electronic and hard copy information required for those systems under § 75.53(g) of this chapter. The electronic monitoring plan shall be evaluated using CEDRI.
10.1.1.2.1
Electronic.
Record the unit or stack ID number(s); monitoring location(s); the EtO monitoring methodology used (
i.e.,
CEMS); EtO monitoring system information, including, but not limited to: unique system and component ID numbers; the make, model, and serial number of the monitoring equipment; the sample acquisition method; formulas used to calculate emissions; monitor span and range information (if applicable).
10.1.1.2.2
Hard Copy.
Keep records of the following: schematics and/or blueprints showing the location of the monitoring system(s) and test ports; data flow diagrams; test protocols; monitor span and range calculations (if applicable); miscellaneous technical justifications.
10.1.2
EtO Emissions Records.
For EtO CEMS, the owner or operator must record the following information for each unit or stack operating hour:
10.1.2.1 The date and hour;
10.1.2.2 Monitoring system and component identification codes, as provided in the electronic monitoring plan, for each hour in which the CEMS provides a quality-assured value of EtO concentration (as applicable);
10.1.2.3 The pollutant concentration, for each hour in which a quality-assured value is obtained. Record the data in parts per billion by volume (ppbv), with one leading non-zero digit and one decimal place, expressed in scientific notation. Use the following rounding convention: If the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 5 or greater, round the first decimal place upward (increase it by one); if the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 4 or less, leave the first decimal place unchanged.
10.1.2.4 A special code, indicating whether or not a quality-assured EtO concentration value is obtained for the hour. This code may be entered manually when a temporary like-kind replacement EtO analyzer is used for reporting; and
10.1.2.5 Monitor data availability, as a percentage of unit or stack operating hours, calculated according to § 75.32 of this chapter.
10.1.3
Stack Gas Volumetric Flow Rate Records.
10.1.3.1 Hourly measurements of stack gas volumetric flow rate during unit operation are required to demonstrate compliance with EtO emission standards.
10.1.3.2 Use a flow rate monitor that meets the requirements of part 75 of this chapter to record the required data. You must keep hourly flow rate records, as specified in § 75.57(c)(2) of this chapter.
10.1.4
EtO Emission Rate Records.
Record the following information for each affected unit or common stack:
10.1.4.1 The date and hour;
10.1.4.2 The hourly EtO emissions rate (lb/hr), for each hour in which valid values of EtO concentration and stack gas volumetric flow rate are obtained for the hour. Report each emission rate to the same precision as the most stringent standard that applies to any affected source exhausting to the emission stream (
e.g.,
if the emission stream includes contributions from an SCV and ARV subject to 99.99% and 99.9% emission reduction standards, respectively, report to four significant figures), expressed in scientific notation. Use the following rounding convention: If the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 5 or greater, round the first decimal place upward (increase it by one); if the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 4 or less, leave the first decimal place unchanged;
10.1.4.4 A code indicating that the EtO emission rate was not calculated for the hour, if valid data for EtO concentration and/or any of the other necessary parameters are not obtained for the hour. For the purposes of this appendix, the substitute data values required under part 75 of this chapter for stack gas flow rate are not considered to be valid data.
10.1.5
Certification and Quality Assurance Test Records.
For the EtO CEMS used to provide data under this subpart at each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack), record the following information for all required certification, recertification, diagnostic, and quality-assurance tests:
10.1.5.1 EtO CEMS.
10.1.5.1.1 For each required 7-day and daily calibration drift (CD) test or daily calibration error test (including daily calibration transfer standard tests) of the EtO CEMS, record the test date(s) and time(s), reference gas value(s), monitor response(s), and calculated calibration drift or calibration error value(s). If you use the dynamic spiking option for the mid-level calibration drift check under PS 19, you must also record the measured concentration of the native EtO in the flue gas before and after the spike and the spiked gas dilution factor.
10.1.5.1.2 or each required RATA of an EtO CEMS, record the beginning and ending date and time of each test run, the reference method(s) used, and the reference method and EtO CEMS run values. Keep records of stratification tests performed (if any), all of the raw field data, relevant process operating data, and all of the calculations used to determine the relative accuracy.
10.1.5.1.3 For each required measurement error (ME) test of an EtO monitor, record the date and time of each gas injection, the reference gas concentration (low, mid, or high) and the monitor response for each of the three injections at each of the three levels. Also record the average monitor response and the ME at each gas level and the related calculations.
10.1.5.1.4 For each required level of detection (LOD) test of an EtO monitor performed in a controlled environment, record the test date, the concentrations of the reference gas and interference gases, the results of the seven (or more) consecutive measurements of EtO, the standard deviation, and the LOD value. For each required LOD test performed in the field, record the test date, the three measurements of the native source EtO concentration, the results of the three independent standard addition (SA) measurements known as standard addition response (SAR), the effective spike addition gas concentration, the resulting standard addition detection level (SADL) value and all related calculations. For extractive CEMS performing the SA using dynamic spiking, you must record the spiked gas dilution factor.
10.1.5.1.5 For each required ME/level of detection response time test of an EtO monitor, record the test date, the native EtO concentration of the flue gas, the reference gas value, the stable reference gas readings, the upscale/downscale start and end times,
and the results of the upscale and downscale stages of the test.
10.1.5.1.6 For each required interference test of an EtO monitor, record (or obtain from the analyzer manufacturer records of): The date of the test; the gas volume/rate, temperature, and pressure used to conduct the test; the EtO concentration of the reference gas used; the concentrations of the interference test gases; the baseline EtO responses for each interferent combination spiked; and the total percent interference as a function of span or EtO concentration.
10.1.5.1.7 For each quarterly relative accuracy audit (RAA) of an EtO monitor, record the beginning and ending date and time of each test run, the reference method used, the EtO concentrations measured by the reference method and CEMS for each test run, the average concentrations measured by the reference method and the CEMS, and the calculated relative accuracy. Keep records of the raw field data, relevant process operating data, and the calculations used to determine the relative accuracy.
10.1.5.1.8 For each quarterly cylinder gas audit (CGA) of an EtO monitor, record the date and time of each injection, and the reference gas concentration (zero, mid, or high) and the monitor response for each injection. Also record the average monitor response and the calculated ME at each gas level.
10.1.5.1.9 For each quarterly dynamic spiking audit (DSA) of an EtO monitor, record the date and time of the zero gas injection and each spike injection, the results of the zero gas injection, the gas concentrations (mid and high) and the dilution factors and the monitor response for each of the six upscale injections as well as the corresponding native EtO concentrations measured before and after each injection. Also record the average dynamic spiking error for each of the upscale gases, the calculated average DSA Accuracy at each upscale gas concentration, and all calculations leading to the DSA Accuracy.
10.1.5.2
Additional Monitoring Systems.
For the stack gas flow rate monitoring systems described in section 3.2 of this appendix, you must keep records of all certification, recertification, diagnostic, and on-going quality-assurance tests of these systems, as specified in § 75.59(a) of this chapter.

# 11. Reporting Requirements
11.1
General Reporting Provisions.
The owner or operator shall comply with the following requirements for reporting EtO emissions from each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack):
11.1.1 Notifications, in accordance with paragraph 11.2 of this section;
11.1.2 Monitoring plan reporting, in accordance with paragraph 11.3 of this section;
11.1.3 Certification, recertification, and QA test submittals, in accordance with paragraph 11.4 of this section; and
11.1.4 Electronic quarterly report submittals, in accordance with paragraph 11.5 of this section.
11.2
Notifications.
The owner or operator shall provide notifications for each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) in accordance with § 63.366.
11.3
Monitoring Plan Reporting.
For each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) using EtO CEMS, the owner or operator shall make electronic and hard copy monitoring plan submittals as follows:
11.3.1 For a sterilization facility that begins reporting hourly EtO concentrations with a previously certified CEMS, submit the monitoring plan information in section 10.1.1.2 of this appendix prior to or concurrent with the first required quarterly emissions report. For a new sterilization facility, submit the information in section 10.1.1.2 of this appendix at least 21 days prior to the start of initial certification testing of the CEMS. Also submit the monitoring plan information in § 75.53(g) of this chapter pertaining to any required flow rate monitoring systems within the applicable timeframe specified in this section, if the required records are not already in place.
11.3.2 Update the monitoring plan when required, as provided in paragraph 10.1.1.1 of this appendix. An electronic monitoring plan information update must be submitted either prior to or concurrent with the quarterly report for the calendar quarter in which the update is required.
11.3.3 All electronic monitoring plan submittals and updates shall be made to the Administrator using CEDRI. Hard copy portions of the monitoring plan shall be kept on record according to section 10.1 of this appendix.
11.4
Certification, Recertification, and Quality-Assurance Test Reporting Requirements.
Use CEDRI to submit the results of all required certification, recertification, quality-assurance, and diagnostic tests of the monitoring systems required under this appendix electronically. Submit the test results concurrent with the quarterly electronic emissions report. However, for RATAs of the EtO monitor, if this is not possible, you have up to 60 days after the test completion date to submit the test results; in this case, you may claim provisional status for the emissions data affected by the test, starting from the date and hour in which the test was completed and continuing until the date and hour in which the test results are submitted. If the test is successful, the status of the
data in that time period changes from provisional to quality-assured, and no further action is required. However, if the test is unsuccessful, the provisional data must be invalidated and resubmission of the affected emission report(s) is required.
11.4.1 For each daily CD (or calibration error) assessment (including daily calibration transfer standard tests), and for each seven-day calibration drift (CD) test of an EtO monitor, report:
11.4.1.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.1.2 The monitoring component ID;
11.4.1.3 The instrument span and span scale;
11.4.1.4 For each gas injection, the date and time, the calibration gas level (zero or high-level), the reference gas value (ppbv), and the monitor response (ppbv);
11.4.1.5 A flag to indicate whether dynamic spiking was used for the high-level value;
11.4.1.6 Calibration drift (percent of span or reference gas, as applicable);
11.4.1.7 When using the dynamic spiking option, the measured concentration of native EtO before and after each mid-level spike and the spiked gas dilution factor; and
11.4.1.8 Reason for test.
11.4.2 For each RATA of an EtO CEMS, report:
11.4.2.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.2.2 Monitoring system ID number;
11.4.2.3 Type of test (
i.e.,
initial or annual RATA);
11.4.2.4 Reason for test;
11.4.2.5 The reference method used;
11.4.2.6 Starting and ending date and time for each test run;
11.4.2.7 Units of measure;
11.4.2.8 The measured reference method and CEMS values for each test run, on a consistent moisture basis, in appropriate units of measure;
11.4.2.9 Flags to indicate which test runs were used in the calculations;
11.4.2.10 Arithmetic mean of the CEMS values, of the reference method values, and of their differences;
11.4.2.11 Standard deviation, using equation 7 in section 12.6 of PS 19 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter;
11.4.2.12 Confidence coefficient, using equation 8 in section 12.6 of PS 19 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter;
11.4.2.13 t-value; and
11.4.2.14 Relative accuracy calculated using equation 11 in section 12.6 of PS 19 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.
11.4.3 For each measurement error (ME) test of an EtO monitor, report:
11.4.3.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.3.2 Monitoring component ID;
11.4.3.3 Instrument span and span scale;
11.4.3.4 For each gas injection, the date and time, the calibration gas level (zero, low, mid, or high), the reference gas value in ppbv and the monitor response.
11.4.3.5 For extractive CEMS, the mean reference value and mean of measured values at each reference gas level (ppbv).
11.4.3.6 ME at each reference gas level; and
11.4.3.7 Reason for test.
11.4.4 For each interference test of an EtO monitoring system, report:
11.4.4.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.4.2 Date of test;
11.4.4.3 Monitoring system ID;
11.4.4.4 Results of the test (pass or fail);
11.4.4.5 Reason for test; and
11.4.4.6 A flag to indicate whether the test was performed: On this particular monitoring system; on one of multiple systems of the same type; or by the manufacturer on a system with components of the same make and model(s) as this system.
11.4.5 For each LOD test of an EtO monitor, report:
11.4.5.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.5.2 Date of test;
11.4.5.3 Reason for test;
11.4.5.4 Monitoring system ID;
11.4.5.5 A code to indicate whether the test was done in a controlled environment or in the field;
11.4.5.6 EtO reference gas concentration;
11.4.5.7 EtO responses with interference gas (seven repetitions);
11.4.5.8 Standard deviation of EtO responses;
11.4.5.9 Effective spike addition gas concentrations;
11.4.5.10 EtO concentration measured without spike;
11.4.5.11 EtO concentration measured with spike;
11.4.5.12 Dilution factor for spike;
11.4.5.13 The controlled environment LOD value (ppbv or ppbv-meters);
11.4.5.14 The field determined standard addition detection level (SADL in ppbv or ppbv-meters); and
11.4.5.15 Result of LOD/SADL test (pass/fail).
11.4.6 For each ME or LOD response time test of an EtO monitor, report:
11.4.6.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.6.2 Date of test;
11.4.6.3 Monitoring component ID;
11.4.6.4 The higher of the upscale or downscale tests, in minutes; and
11.4.6.5 Reason for test.
11.4.7 For each quarterly RAA of an EtO monitor, report:
11.4.7.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.7.2 Monitoring system ID;
11.4.7.3 Begin and end time of each test run;
11.4.7.4 The reference method used;
11.4.7.5 The reference method and CEMS values for each test run, including the units of measure;
11.4.7.6 The mean reference method and CEMS values for the three test runs;
11.4.7.7 The calculated relative accuracy, percent; and
11.4.7.8 Reason for test.
11.4.8 For each quarterly cylinder gas audit of an EtO monitor, report:
11.4.8.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.8.2 Monitoring component ID;
11.4.8.3 Instrument span and span scale;
11.4.8.4 For each gas injection, the date and time, the reference gas level (zero, mid, or high), the reference gas value in ppbv, and the monitor response.
11.4.8.5 For extractive CEMS, the mean reference gas value and mean monitor response at each reference gas level (ppbv).
11.4.8.6 ME at each reference gas level; and
11.4.8.7 Reason for test.
11.4.9 For each quarterly DSA of an EtO monitor, report:
11.4.9.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.9.2 Monitoring component ID;
11.4.9.3 Instrument span and span scale;
11.4.9.4 For the zero gas injection, the date and time, and the monitor response (Note: The zero gas injection from a calibration drift check performed on the same day as the upscale spikes may be used for this purpose.);
11.4.9.5 Zero spike error;
11.4.9.6 For the upscale gas spiking, the date and time of each spike, the reference gas level (mid- or high-), the reference gas value (ppbv), the dilution factor, the native EtO concentrations before and after each spike, and the monitor response for each gas spike;
11.4.9.7 Upscale spike error;
11.4.9.8 DSA at the zero level and at each upscale gas level; and
11.4.9.9 Reason for test.
11.4.10
Reporting Requirements for Diluent Gas, Flow Rate, and Moisture Monitoring Systems.
For the certification, recertification, diagnostic, and QA tests of stack gas flow rate, moisture, and diluent gas monitoring systems that are certified and quality-assured according to part 75 of this chapter, report the information in section 10.1.8.2 of this appendix.
11.5
Quarterly Reports.
11.5.1 The owner or operator of any affected unit shall use CEDRI to submit electronic quarterly reports to the Administrator in an XML format specified by the Administrator, for each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack). If the certified EtO CEMS is used for the initial compliance demonstration, EtO emissions reporting shall begin with the first operating hour of the 30-operating day compliance demonstration period. Otherwise, EtO emissions reporting shall begin with the first operating hour after successfully completing all required certification tests of the CEMS.
11.5.2 The electronic reports must be submitted within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter, except for units that have been placed in long-term cold storage.
11.5.3 Each electronic quarterly report shall include the following information:
11.5.3.1 The date of report generation;
11.5.3.2 Facility identification information;
11.5.3.3 The information in sections 10.1.2 through 10.1.4 of this appendix, as applicable to the type(s) of monitoring system(s) used to measure the pollutant concentrations and other necessary parameters.
11.5.3.4 The results of all daily calibrations (including calibration transfer standard tests) of the EtO monitor as described in section 10.1.8.1.1 of this appendix; and
11.5.3.5 If applicable, the results of all daily flow monitor interference checks, in accordance with section 10.1.8.2 of this appendix.
11.5.4
Compliance Certification.
Based on reasonable inquiry of those persons with primary responsibility for ensuring that all EtO emissions from the affected unit(s) have been correctly and fully monitored, the owner or operator shall submit a compliance certification in support of each electronic quarterly emissions monitoring report. The compliance certification shall include a statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the report is true, accurate, and complete.
Subpart P [Reserved]

# Subpart Q—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial Process Cooling Towers

# Source:
59 FR 46350, Sept. 8, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.400
Applicability.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to all new and existing industrial process cooling towers that are operated with chromium-based water treatment chemicals and are either major sources or are integral parts of facilities that are major sources as defined in § 63.401.
(b) Table 1 of this subpart specifies the provisions of subpart A that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of IPCT's subject to this subpart.
[59 FR 46350, Sept. 8, 1994, as amended at 71 FR 17738, Apr. 7, 2006]
§ 63.401
Definitions.
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this section as follows:
Chromium-based water treatment chemicals
means any combination of chemical substances containing chromium used to treat water.
Commenced
means, with respect to construction or reconstruction of an IPCT, that an owner or operator has undertaken a continuous program of construction or reconstruction or that an owner or operator has entered into a contractual obligation to undertake and complete, within a reasonable time, a continuous program of construction or reconstruction.
Compliance date
means the date by which an affected IPCT is required to be in compliance with this subpart.
Construction
means the on-site fabrication, erection, or installation of an IPCT.
Cooling tower
means an open water recirculating device that uses fans or natural draft to draw or force ambient air through the device to cool warm water by direct contact.
Effective date
means September 8, 1994, for this subpart.
Existing IPCT
means any affected IPCT that is not a new IPCT.
Industrial process cooling tower,
also written as “IPCT,” means any cooling tower that is used to remove heat that is produced as an input or output of a chemical or industrial process(es), as well as any cooling tower that cools industrial processes in combination with any heating, ventilation, or air conditioning system.
Initial startup
means the initiation of recirculation water flow within the cooling tower.
Major source
means any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit considering controls, in the aggregate, 10 tons per year or more of any hazardous air pollutant or 25 tons per year or more of any combination of hazardous air pollutants.
New IPCT
means any affected IPCT the construction or reconstruction of which commenced after August 12, 1993.
Owner or operator
means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises an IPCT.
Potential to emit
means the maximum capacity of a stationary source to emit a pollutant under its physical and operational design. Any physical or operational limitation on the capacity of the stationary source to emit a pollutant, including air pollution control equipment and restrictions on hours of operation or on the type or amount of material combusted, stored, or processed, shall be treated as part of its design if the limitation or the effect it would have on emissions is federally enforceable.
Reconstruction
means the replacement of components of an affected or a previously unaffected IPCT to such an extent that the fixed capital cost of the new components exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost that would be required to construct a comparable new IPCT.
Responsible official
means one of the following:
(1) For a corporation: a president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or a duly authorized representative of such person if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities and either:
(i) The facilities employ more than 250 persons or have gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second quarter 1980 dollars); or
(ii) The delegation of authority to such representative is approved in advance by the Administrator.
(2) For a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or the proprietor, respectively.
(3) For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency: either a principal executive officer or ranking elected official. For the purposes of this part, a principal executive officer of a Federal agency includes the chief executive officer having responsibility for the overall operations of a principal geographic unit of the agency (e.g., a Regional Administrator of the EPA).
(4) For affected sources (as defined in this part) applying for or subject to a title V permit: “responsible official” shall have the same meaning as defined in part 70 of this chapter or Federal title V regulations (42 U.S.C. 7661), whichever is applicable.
Water treatment chemicals
means any combination of chemical substances used to treat water in cooling towers, including corrosion inhibitors, antiscalants, dispersants, and any other chemical substances used to treat water.
§ 63.402
Standard.
No owner or operator of an IPCT shall use chromium-based water treatment chemicals in any affected IPCT.
§ 63.403
Compliance dates.
The requirements of § 63.402 of this subpart shall be applied on the following schedule:
(a) For existing IPCT's, the compliance date shall be 18 months after September 8, 1994.
(b) For new IPCT's that have an initial startup before September 8, 1994, the compliance date shall be September 8, 1994.
(c) For new IPCT's that have an initial startup on or after September 8, 1994, the compliance date shall be the date of the initial startup.
§ 63.404
Compliance demonstrations.
No routine monitoring, sampling, or analysis is required. In accordance with section 114 of the Act, the Administrator or delegated authority can require cooling water sample analysis of an IPCT if there is information to indicate that the IPCT is not in compliance with the requirements of § 63.402 of this subpart. The owner or operator of an IPCT may demonstrate compliance through recordkeeping in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section in lieu of a water sample analysis. If cooling water sample analysis is required:
(a) The water sample analysis shall be conducted in accordance with Method 7196, Chromium, Hexavalent (Colorimetric), contained in the Third Edition of “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846, (November 1986) and its Revision I, (December 1987), which are available for the cost of $110.00 from the Government Printing Office, Superintendent of Documents, Washington, DC 20402, (202) 783-3238 (document number 955-001-00000-1; or Method 3500-Cr D, Colorimetric Method, contained in the 18th Edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewaster” (1992), which is available from the American Public Health Association, 1015 15th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005. These methods were approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be inspected as a part of Docket A-91-65, located at the Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, room M1500, EPA Central Docket Section, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC. Copies may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) On or after 3 months after the compliance date, a cooling water sample residual hexavalent chromium concentration equal to or less than 0.5 parts per million by weight shall indicate compliance with § 63.402. Alternatively, an owner or operator may demonstrate compliance through record keeping in accordance with paragraph (c).
(c) To demonstrate compliance with § 63.402, in lieu of the water sample analysis provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator of each IPCT may maintain records of water treatment chemical purchases, including invoices and other documentation that includes invoices and other documentation that includes date(s) of purchase or shipment, trade name or other information to identify composition of the product, and quantity of the product.
(d) Following a request, by the Administrator or delegated authority, under paragraph (a) for a water sample analysis, failure to either meet the
concentration level specified in paragraph (b) or provide the records specified in paragraph (c) shall indicate a violation of § 63.402.
[59 FR 46350, Sept. 8, 1994, as amended at 63 FR 39519, July 23, 1998; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 63.405
Notification requirements.
(a)
Initial notification.
(1) In accordance with § 63.9(b) of subpart A, owners or operators of all affected IPCT's that have an initial startup before September 8, 1994, shall notify the Administrator in writing. The notification, which shall be submitted not later than 12 months after September 8, 1994, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, shall provide the following information:
(i) The name and address of the IPCT owner or operator;
(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of the affected IPCT;
(iii) A statement that the notification is being submitted as required by this subpart; and
(iv) A description of the type of water treatment program used in the affected IPCT, including the chemical name of each corrosion inhibitor ingredient used; the average concentration of those corrosion inhibitor ingredients maintained in the cooling water; and the material safety data sheet for each water treatment chemical or chemical compound used in the IPCT.
(2) In accordance with § 63.9(b) of subpart A, owners or operators of all affected IPCT's that have an initial startup on or after September 8, 1994, shall notify the Administrator in writing that the source is subject to the relevant standard no later than 12 months after initial startup or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The notification shall provide all the information required in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(b)
Notification of compliance status.
(1) In accordance with § 63.9(h) of subpart A, owners or operators of affected IPCT's shall submit to the Administrator a notification of compliance status within 60 days of the date on which the IPCT is brought into compliance with § 63.402 of this subpart and not later than 18 months after September 8, 1994, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.
(2) The notification of compliance status must:
(i) Be signed by a responsible official who also certifies the accuracy of the report;
(ii) Certify that source has complied with § 63.402 of this subpart; and
(iii) Include the information required in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section.
(iv) Include the following statement:
I certify that no chromium-based water treatment chemicals have been introduced since (the initial compliance date) into any IPCT located within the facility for any purpose.
[59 FR 46350, Sept. 8, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 73889, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.406
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
To demonstrate continuing compliance with § 63.402 of this subpart, the owner or operator of each affected IPCT shall maintain copies of the initial notification and the notification of compliance status as required by § 63.405 of this subpart for a period of at least 5 years onsite.
§ 63.407
Implementation and enforcement.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.400 and 63.402 through 63.403.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
[68 FR 37348, June 23, 2003]
Pt. 63, Subpt. Q, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart Q of Part 63—General Provisions Applicability to Subpart Q
Reference
Applies to Subpart Q
Comment
63.1
Yes
63.2
Yes
63.3
No
63.4
Yes
63.5
No
63.6 (a), (b), (c), and (j)
Yes
63.6 (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i)
No
63.7
No
63.8
No
63.9(a), (b)(1), (b)(3), (c), (h)(1), (h)(3), (h)(6), (j), and (k)
Yes
§ 63.9(k) only as specified in 63.9(j).
63.10 (a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(xii), (b)(2)(xiv), (b)(3), (d), and (f)
Yes
Section 63.406 requires an onsite record retention of 5 years.
63.10 (b)(2) (i) to (xi), (c), and (e)
No
63.11
No
63.12 to 63.15
Yes
[59 FR 46350, Sept. 8, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 73889, Nov. 19, 2020]

# Subpart R—National Emission Standards for Gasoline Distribution Facilities (Bulk Gasoline Terminals and Pipeline Breakout Stations)

# Source:
59 FR 64318, Dec. 14, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.420
Applicability.
(a) Prior to May 8, 2027, the affected source to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each bulk gasoline terminal, except those bulk gasoline terminals meeting either of the criteria listed in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section. No later than May 8, 2027, the affected source to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each bulk gasoline terminal located at a major source as defined in § 63.2.
(1) Bulk gasoline terminals for which the owner or operator has documented and recorded to the Administrator's satisfaction that the result, E
T
, of the following equation is less than 1, and complies with requirements in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section:
E
T
= CF[0.59(T
F
)(1-CE) + 0.17 (T
E
) + 0.08(T
ES
) + 0.038(T
I
) + 8.5 × 10-6(C) + KQ] + 0.04(OE)
where:
E
T
= emissions screening factor for bulk gasoline terminals;
CF = 0.161 for bulk gasoline terminals and pipeline breakout stations that do not handle any reformulated or oxygenated gasoline containing 7.6 percent by volume or greater methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE), OR
CF = 1.0 for bulk gasoline terminals and pipeline breakout stations that handle reformulated or oxygenated gasoline containing 7.6 percent by volume or greater MTBE;
CE = control efficiency limitation on potential to emit for the vapor processing system used to control emissions from fixed-roof gasoline storage vessels [value should be added in decimal form (percent divided by 100)];
T
F
= total number of fixed-roof gasoline storage vessels without an internal floating roof;
T
E
= total number of external floating roof gasoline storage vessels with only primary seals;
T
ES
= total number of external floating roof gasoline storage vessels with primary and secondary seals;
T
I
= total number of fixed-roof gasoline storage vessels with an internal floating roof;
C = number of valves, pumps, connectors, loading arm valves, and open-ended lines in gasoline service;
Q = gasoline throughput limitation on potential to emit or gasoline throughput limit in compliance with paragraphs (c), (d), and (f) of this section (liters/day);
K = 4.52 × 10
−6
for bulk gasoline terminals with uncontrolled loading racks (no vapor collection and processing systems),
OR
K = (4.5 × 10
−9
)(EF + L) for bulk gasoline terminals with controlled loading racks (loading racks that have vapor collection and processing systems installed on the emission stream);
EF = emission rate limitation on potential to emit for the gasoline cargo tank loading rack vapor processor outlet emissions (mg of total organic compounds per liter of gasoline loaded);
OE = other HAP emissions screening factor for bulk gasoline terminals or pipeline breakout stations (tons per year). OE equals the total HAP from other emission sources not specified in parameters in the equations for E
T
or E
P
. If the value of 0.04(OE) is greater than 5 percent of either E
T
or E
P
, then paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of this section shall not be used to determine applicability;
L = 13 mg/l for gasoline cargo tanks meeting the requirement to satisfy the test criteria for a vapor-tight gasoline tank truck in § 60.501 of this chapter,
OR
L = 304 mg/l for gasoline cargo tanks not meeting the requirement to satisfy the test criteria for a vapor-tight gasoline tank truck in § 60.501 of this chapter; or
(2) Bulk gasoline terminals for which the owner or operator has documented and recorded to the Administrator's satisfaction that the facility is not a major source, or is not located within a contiguous area and under common control of a facility that is a major source, as defined in § 63.2.
(b) Prior to May 8, 2027, the affected source to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each pipeline breakout station, except those pipeline breakout stations meeting either of the criteria listed in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. No later than May 8, 2027, the affected source to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each pipeline breakout station located at a major source as defined in § 63.2.
(1) Pipeline breakout stations for which the owner or operator has documented and recorded to the Administrator's satisfaction that the result, E
P
, of the following equation is less than 1, and complies with requirements in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section:
E
P
= CF [6.7(T
F
)(1-CE) + 0.21(T
E
) + 0.093(T
ES
) + 0.1(T
I
) + 5.31 × 10
−6
(C)) + 0.04(OE);
where:
EP = emissions screening factor for pipeline breakout stations,
and the definitions for CF, T
F
, CE, T
E
, T
ES
, TI, C, and OE are the same as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or
(2) Pipeline breakout stations for which the owner or operator has documented and recorded to the Administrator's satisfaction that the facility is not a major source, or is not located within a contiguous area and under common control of a facility that is a major source, as defined in § 63.2.
(c) Prior to May 8, 2027, a facility for which the results, E
T
or E
P
, of the calculation in paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section has been documented and is less than 1.0 but greater than or equal to 0.50, is exempt from the requirements of this subpart, except that the owner or operator shall:
(1) Operate the facility such that none of the facility parameters used to calculate results under paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section, and approved by the Administrator, is exceeded in any rolling 30-day period; and
(2) Maintain records and provide reports in accordance with the provisions of § 63.428(l)(4).
(d) Prior to May 8, 2027, a facility for which the results, E
T
or E
P
, of the calculation in paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section has been documented and is less than 0.50, is exempt from the requirements of this subpart, except that the owner or operator shall:
(1) Operate the facility such that none of the facility parameters used to calculate results under paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section is exceeded in any rolling 30-day period; and
(2) Maintain records and provide reports in accordance with the provisions of § 63.428(l)(5).
(e) The provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of this section shall not be used to determine applicability to bulk gasoline terminals or pipeline breakout stations that are either:
(1) Located within a contiguous area and under common control with another bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station, or
(2) Located within a contiguous area and under common control with other sources not specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section, that emit or have the potential to emit a hazardous air pollutant.
(f) Upon request by the Administrator, the owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of any paragraphs in this section including, but not limited to, the parameters and assumptions used in the applicable equation in paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section, shall demonstrate compliance with those paragraphs.
(g) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart that is also subject to applicable provisions of part 60, subpart Kb, XX, or XXa, of this chapter shall comply only with the provisions in each subpart that contain the most stringent control requirements for that facility.
(h) Each owner or operator of an affected source bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station is subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart A—General Provisions, as indicated in Table 1.
(i) A bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station with a Standard Industrial Classification code 2911 located within a contiguous area and under common control with a refinery complying with §§ 63.646, 63.648, 63.649, 63.650, and 63.660 is not subject to the standards in this subpart, except as specified in § 63.650.
(j) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, the December 14, 1995, compliance date for existing facilities in §§ 63.424(e) and 63.428(a), (l)(4)(i), and (l)(5)(i) is stayed from December 8, 1995, to March 7, 1996.
(k) Each owner or operator of an affected source bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station must comply
with the standards in this part at all times. At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
[59 FR 64318, Dec. 14, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 43260, Aug. 18, 1995; 60 FR 62992, Dec. 8, 1995; 62 FR 9092, Feb. 28, 1997; 89 FR 39358, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.421
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act; in subparts A, K, Ka, Kb, and Xxa of part 60 of this chapter; or in subpart A of this part. All terms defined in both subpart A of part 60 of this chapter and subpart A of this part shall have the meaning given in subpart A of this part. For purposes of this subpart, definitions in this section supersede definitions in other parts or subparts.
Bulk gasoline terminal
means:
(1) Prior to May 8, 2027, any gasoline facility which receives gasoline by pipeline, ship or barge, and has a gasoline throughput greater than 75,700 liters per day. Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal, State, or local law and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.
(2) On or after May 8, 2027, any gasoline facility which receives gasoline by pipeline, ship, barge, or cargo tank and subsequently loads all or a portion of the gasoline into gasoline cargo tanks for transport to bulk gasoline plants or gasoline dispensing facilities and has a gasoline throughput greater than 20,000 gallons per day (75,700 liters per day). Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput for the facility as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal, State, or local law and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.
Controlled loading rack,
for the purposes of § 63.420, means a loading rack equipped with vapor collection and processing systems that reduce displaced vapor emissions to no more than 80 milligrams of total organic compounds per liter of gasoline loaded, as measured using the test methods and procedures in § 60.503 (a) through (c) of this chapter.
Equipment
means each valve, pump, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, and flange or other connector in the gasoline liquid transfer and vapor collection systems. This definition also includes the entire vapor processing system except the exhaust port(s) or stack(s).
Flare
means a thermal combustion device using an open or shrouded flame (without full enclosure) such that the pollutants are not emitted through a conveyance suitable to conduct a performance test.
Gasoline
means any petroleum distillate or petroleum distillate/alcohol blend having a Reid vapor pressure of 4.0 pounds per square inch (27.6 kilopascals) or greater, which is used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.
Gasoline cargo tank
means a delivery tank truck or railcar which is loading gasoline or which has loaded gasoline on the immediately previous load.
In gasoline service
means that a piece of equipment is used in a system that transfers gasoline or gasoline vapors.
Limitation(s) on potential to emit
means limitation(s) limiting a source's potential to emit as defined in § 63.2 of subpart A of this part.
Operating parameter value
means a value for an operating or emission parameter of the vapor processing system (e.g., temperature) which, if maintained continuously by itself or in
combination with one or more other operating parameter values, determines that an owner or operator has complied with the applicable emission standard. The operating parameter value is determined using the procedures outlined in § 63.425(b).
Oxygenated gasoline
means the same as defined in 40 CFR 80.2.
Pipeline breakout station
means:
(1) Prior to May 8, 2027, a facility along a pipeline containing storage vessels used to relieve surges or receive and store gasoline from the pipeline for reinjection and continued transportation by pipeline or to other facilities.
(2) On or after May 8, 2027, a facility along a pipeline containing storage vessels used to relieve surges or receive and store gasoline from the pipeline for reinjection and continued transportation by pipeline to other facilities.
Pipeline breakout stations
do not have loading racks where gasoline is loaded into cargo tanks. If any gasoline is loaded into cargo tanks, the facility is a bulk gasoline terminal for the purposes of this subpart provided the facility-wide gasoline throughput (including pipeline throughput) exceeds the limits specified for bulk gasoline terminals.
Reformulated gasoline
means the same as defined in 40 CFR 80.2.
Submerged filling
means the filling of a gasoline cargo tank through a submerged fill pipe whose discharge is no more than the 6 inches from the bottom of the tank. Bottom filling of gasoline cargo tanks is included in this definition.
Thermal oxidation system
means an enclosed combustion device used to mix and ignite fuel, air pollutants, and air to provide a flame to heat and oxidize hazardous air pollutants. Auxiliary fuel may be used to heat air pollutants to combustion temperatures.
Thermal oxidation systems
emit pollutants through a conveyance suitable to conduct a performance test.
Uncontrolled loading rack
means a loading rack used to load gasoline cargo tanks that is not a controlled loading rack.
Vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank
means a gasoline cargo tank which has demonstrated within the 12 preceding months that it meets the annual certification test requirements in § 63.425(e), and which is subject at all times to the test requirements in § 63.425 (f), (g), and (h).
Volatile organic liquid
(VOL) means, for the purposes of this subpart, gasoline.
[59 FR 64318, Dec. 14, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 9093, Feb. 28, 1997; 68 FR 70965, Dec. 19, 2003; 85 FR 78463, Dec. 4, 2020; 89 FR 39358, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.422
Standards: Loading racks.
(a) You must meet either the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable in paragraph (d) of this section.
(1) Each owner or operator of loading racks at a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements in § 60.502 of this chapter except for paragraphs (b), (c), and (j) of that section. For purposes of this section, the term “affected facility” used in § 60.502 means the loading racks that load gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminals subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(2) Each owner or operator of loading racks at a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements in § 60.502a of this chapter except for paragraphs (b) and (j) of that section and shall comply with the provisions in paragraphs (b) through (c) of this section. For purposes of this section, the term “gasoline loading rack affected facility” used in § 60.502a means “the loading racks that load gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminals subject to the provisions of this subpart.” For purposes of this subpart, the term “vapor-tight gasoline cargo tanks” used in § 60.502a(e) of this chapter shall have the meaning given in § 63.421. As an alternative to the pressure monitoring requirements in § 60.504a(d) of this chapter, you may comply with the requirements specified in § 63.427(f).
(b) You must meet either the emission limits in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable in paragraph (d) of this section.
(1) Emissions to the atmosphere from the vapor collection and processing systems due to the loading of gasoline
cargo tanks shall not exceed 10 milligrams of total organic compounds per liter of gasoline loaded.
(2) You must comply with the provisions in § 60.502a(c) of this chapter for all loading racks that load gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminals subject to the provisions of this subpart, not just those that are modified or reconstructed.
(c) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discontinue loading any cargo tank that fails vapor tightness according to the test requirements in § 63.425(f), (g), and (h) until vapor tightness documentation for that gasoline cargo tank is obtained which documents that:
(1) The tank truck or railcar gasoline cargo tank has been repaired, retested, and subsequently passed either the annual certification test described in § 63.425(e) or the railcar bubble test described in § 63.425(i); or
(2) For each gasoline cargo tank failing the test in § 63.425(f) at the facility, the cargo tank meets the test requirements in either § 63.425(g) or (h); or
(3) For each gasoline cargo tank failing the test in § 63.425(g) at the facility, the cargo tank meets the test requirements in § 63.425(h).
(d) Each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in this section as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than the dates provided in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) For facilities that commenced construction on or before February 8, 1994, each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c) of this section no later than December 15, 1997. Beginning no later than May 8, 2027, paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of this section no longer apply and each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c) of this section.
(2) For facilities that commenced construction after February 8, 1994, and on or before June 10, 2022, each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c) of this section upon startup. Beginning no later than May 8, 2027, paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of this section no longer apply and each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c) of this section.
(3) For facilities that commenced construction after June 10, 2022, each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c) of this section upon startup or July 8, 2024, whichever is later.
(e) As an alternative to § 60.502(h) and (i) or § 60.502a(h) and (i) of this chapter as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator may comply with paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall design and operate the vapor processing system, vapor collection system, and liquid loading equipment to prevent gauge pressure in the railcar gasoline cargo tank from exceeding the applicable test limits in § 63.425(e) and (i) during product loading. This level is not to be exceeded when measured by the procedures specified in § 60.503(d) of this chapter during any performance test or performance evaluation conducted under § 63.425(b) or (c).
(2) No pressure-vacuum vent in the bulk' gasoline terminal's vapor processing system or vapor collection system may begin to open at a system pressure less than the applicable test limits in § 63.425(e) or (i).
[89 FR 39359, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.423
Standards: Storage vessels.
(a) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall equip each gasoline storage vessel according to the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable in paragraph (c) of this section.
(1) Equip each gasoline storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3
according to the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1) through (4) of this chapter, except for the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1)(iv) through (ix) and (a)(2)(ii) of this chapter.
(2) Equip each gasoline external floating roof storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3
according to the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(2)(ii) of this chapter if such storage vessel does not currently meet
the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall equip each gasoline storage vessel according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) of this section and, if a floating roof is used, either paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, as applicable in paragraph (c) of this section.
(1) Equip, maintain, and operate each gasoline storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3
according to the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1) through (4) of this chapter, except for the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1)(iv) through (ix) of this chapter. Alternatively, you may elect to equip, maintain, and operate each affected gasoline storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3
according to the requirements in subpart WW of this part as specified in § 60.110b(e)(5) of this chapter.
(2) Equip, maintain, and operate each internal floating control system to maintain the vapor concentration within the storage vessel above the floating roof at or below 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) on a 5-minute rolling average basis without the use of purge gas. This standard may require additional controls beyond those specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Compliance with this paragraph (b)(2) shall be determined using the methods in § 63.425(j). A deviation of the LEL level is considered an inspection failure under § 60.113b(a)(2) of this chapter or § 63.1063(d)(2) and must be remedied as such. Any repairs made must be confirmed effective through re-monitoring of the LEL and meeting the level in this paragraph (b)(2) within the timeframes specified in § 60.113b(a)(2) or § 63.1063(e), as applicable.
(3) Equip, maintain, and operate each gasoline external floating roof storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3
with fitting controls as specified in § 60.112b(a)(2)(ii) of this chapter.
(c) Each gasoline storage vessel at bulk gasoline terminals and pipeline breakout stations shall be in compliance with the requirements of this section as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than the dates provided in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) For facilities that commenced construction on or before February 8, 1994, each gasoline storage vessel shall meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section no later than December 15, 1997. Beginning no later than May 8, 2027, paragraph (a) of this section no longer applies and each gasoline storage vessel shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section no later than May 8, 2027. If applicable, the fitting controls required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section must be installed the next time the storage vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or by May 8, 2034, whichever occurs first.
(2) For facilities that commenced construction after February 8, 1994, and on or before June 10, 2022, each gasoline storage vessel shall meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section upon startup. Beginning no later than May 8, 2027, paragraph (a) of this section no longer applies and each gasoline storage vessel shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section no later than May 8, 2027. If applicable, the fitting controls required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section must be installed the next time the storage vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or by May 8, 2034, whichever occurs first.
(3) For facilities that commenced construction after June 10, 2022, each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section upon startup or July 8, 2024, whichever is later.
[89 FR 39360, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.424
Standards: Equipment leaks.
(a) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall implement a leak detection and repair program for all equipment in gasoline service according to the requirements in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable in paragraph (e) of this section and minimize gasoline vapor losses according to paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall perform a monthly leak inspection of all equipment in gasoline service. For this inspection, detection methods incorporating sight, sound, and smell are acceptable. Each piece of equipment shall be inspected during the loading of a gasoline cargo tank.
(1) A logbook shall be used and shall be signed by the owner or operator at the completion of each inspection. A section of the log shall contain a list, summary description, or diagram(s) showing the location of all equipment in gasoline service at the facility.
(2) Each detection of a liquid or vapor leak shall be recorded in the logbook. When a leak is detected, an initial attempt at repair shall be made as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. Repair or replacement of leaking equipment shall be completed within 15 calendar days after detection of each leak, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) Delay of repair of leaking equipment will be allowed upon a demonstration to the Administrator that repair within 15 days is not feasible. The owner or operator shall provide the reason(s) a delay is needed and the date by which each repair is expected to be completed.
(4) As an alternative to compliance with the provisions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, owners or operators may implement an instrument leak monitoring program that has been demonstrated to the Administrator as at least equivalent.
(c) Comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(j) of this chapter except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The frequency for optical gas imaging (OGI) monitoring shall be semiannually rather than quarterly as specified in § 60.502a(j)(1)(i).
(2) The frequency for Method 21 monitoring of pumps and valves shall be semiannually rather than quarterly as specified in § 60.502a(j)(1)(ii)(A) and (B).
(3) The frequency of monitoring of pressure relief devices shall be semiannually and within 5 calendar days after each pressure release rather than quarterly and within 5 calendar days after each pressure release as specified in § 60.502a(j)(4)(i).
(d) Owners and operators shall not allow gasoline to be handled in a manner that would result in vapor releases to the atmosphere for extended periods of time. Measures to be taken include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Minimize gasoline spills;
(2) Clean up spills as expeditiously as practicable;
(3) Cover all open gasoline containers with a gasketed seal when not in use; and
(4) Minimize gasoline sent to open waste collection systems that collect and transport gasoline to reclamation and recycling devices, such as oil/water separators.
(e) Compliance with the provisions of this section shall be achieved as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than the dates provided in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) For facilities that commenced construction on or before February 8, 1994, meet the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section no later than December 15, 1997. Beginning no later than May 8, 2027, paragraph (b) of this section no longer applies and facilities shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section no later than May 8, 2027.
(2) For facilities that commenced construction after February 8, 1994, and on or before June 10, 2022, meet the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section upon startup. Beginning no later than May 8, 2027, paragraph (b) of this section no longer applies and facilities shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section no later than May 8, 2027.
(3) For facilities that commenced construction after June 10, 2022, meet the requirements in paragraph (c) and (d) of this section upon startup or July 8, 2024, whichever is later.
[89 FR 39360, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.425
Test methods and procedures.
(a)
Performance test and evaluation requirements.
Each owner or operator subject to the emission standard in § 63.422(b)(1) or § 60.112b(a)(3)(ii) of this chapter shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.
Each owner or operator subject to the emission standard in § 63.422(b)(2) shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. Performance tests shall be conducted under representative conditions when liquid product is being loaded into gasoline cargo tanks and shall include periods between gasoline cargo tank loading (when one cargo tank is disconnected and another cargo tank is moved into position for loading) provided that liquid product loading into gasoline cargo tanks is conducted for at least a portion of each 5 minute block of the performance test. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(b)
Gasoline loading rack and gasoline storage vessel performance test requirements.
For gasoline loading racks subject to the requirements in § 63.422(b)(1) or gasoline storage vessels subject to the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(3)(ii) of this chapter:
(1) Conduct a performance test on the vapor processing and collection systems according to either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) Use the test methods and procedures in § 60.503 of this chapter, except a reading of 500 ppm shall be used to determine the level of leaks to be repaired under § 60.503(b) of this chapter, or
(ii) Use alternative test methods and procedures in accordance with the alternative test method requirements in § 63.7(f).
(2) The performance test requirements of § 60.503(c) of this chapter do not apply to flares defined in § 63.421 and meeting the flare requirements in § 63.11(b). The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the flare and associated vapor collection system is in compliance with the requirements in § 63.11(b) and § 60.503(a), (b), and (d) of this chapter, respectively.
(3) For each performance test conducted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine a monitored operating parameter value for the vapor processing system using the following procedure:
(i) During the performance test, continuously record the operating parameter under § 63.427(a);
(ii) Determine an operating parameter value based on the parameter data monitored during the performance test, supplemented by engineering assessments and the manufacturer's recommendations; and
(iii) Provide for the Administrator's approval the rationale for the selected operating parameter value, and monitoring frequency and averaging time, including data and calculations used to develop the value and a description of why the value, monitoring frequency, and averaging time demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission standard in § 63.422(b)(1) or § 60.112b(a)(3)(ii) of this chapter.
(4) For performance tests performed after the initial test, the owner or operator shall document the reasons for any change in the operating parameter value since the previous performance test.
(c)
Gasoline loading rack performance test and evaluation requirements.
For gasoline loading rack sources subject to the requirements in § 63.422(b)(2):
(1) Conduct performance tests or evaluations on the vapor processing and collection systems according to the requirements in § 60.503a(a), (c) and (d) of this chapter.
(2) The first performance test or performance evaluation of the continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) shall be conducted within 180 days of the date affected source begins compliance with the requirements in § 63.422(b)(2). A previously conducted performance test may be used to satisfy this requirement if the conditions in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (v) of this section are met. Prior to conducting this performance test or evaluation, you must continue to meet the monitoring and operating limits that apply based on the previously conducted performance test.
(i) The performance test was conducted on or after May 8, 2022.
(ii) No changes have been made to the process or control device since the time of the performance test.
(iii) The operating conditions, test methods, and test requirements (
e.g.,
length of test) used for the previous performance test conform to the requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(iv) The temperature in the combustion zone was recorded during the performance test as specified in § 60.503a(c)(8)(i) of this chapter and can be used to establish the operating limit as specified in § 60.503a(c)(8)(ii) through (iv) of this chapter.
(v) The performance test demonstrates compliance with the emission limit specified in § 63.422(b)(2).
(3) For loading racks complying with the mass loading emission limit in § 60.502a(c)(1) of this chapter, subsequent performance tests shall be conducted no later than 60 calendar months after the previous performance test.
(4) For loading racks complying with the concentration emission limit in § 60.502a(c)(2) of this chapter, subsequent performance evaluations of CEMS for the vapor collection and processing system shall be conducted no later than 12 calendar months after the previous performance evaluation.
(d)
Gasoline storage vessel requirements.
The owner or operator of each gasoline storage vessel subject to the provisions of § 63.423 shall comply with § 60.113b of this chapter and, if applicable, the provisions in paragraph (j) of this section. If a closed vent system and control device are used, as specified in § 60.112b(a)(3) of this chapter, to comply with the requirements in § 63.423, the owner or operator shall also comply with the requirements in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.
(1) If the gasoline storage vessel is subject to the provision in § 63.423(a) or the provision in § 63.423(b) and a control device other than a flare is used for the gasoline storage vessel, the owner or operator shall also comply with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) If the gasoline storage vessel is subject to the provision in § 63.423(b) and a flare is used as the control device for the gasoline storage vessel, you must comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(c)(3) of this chapter as indicated in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section rather than the requirements in § 60.18(e) and (f) of this chapter as specified in § 60.113b(d) of this chapter.
(i) At § 60.502a(c)(3)(i) of this chapter, replace “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading” with “vapors from the gasoline storage vessel.”
(ii) Section 60.502a(c)(3)(vi) through (ix) of this chapter does not apply.
(e)
Annual certification test.
The annual certification test for gasoline cargo tanks shall consist of the following test methods and procedures:
(1)
Method 27 of appendix A-8 to part 60 of this chapter.
Conduct the test using a time period (t) for the pressure and vacuum tests of 5 minutes. The initial pressure (P
i
) for the pressure test shall be 460 millimeters (mm) of water (H
2
O) (18 inches (in.) H
2
O), gauge. The initial vacuum (V
i
) for the vacuum test shall be 150 mm H
2
O (6 in. H
2
O), gauge. Each owner or operator shall implement the requirements in paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section.
(i) The maximum allowable pressure and vacuum changes (Δ p, Δ v) are as shown in the second column of table 1 to this paragraph (e)(1).
(ii) The maximum allowable pressure and vacuum changes (Δ p, Δ v) are as shown in the third column of table 1 to this paragraph (e)(1).
(iii) Compliance with the provisions of this section shall be achieved as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than the dates provided in paragraphs (e)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) For facilities that commenced construction on or before June 10, 2022, meet the requirements in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section prior to May 8, 2027, and meet the requirements in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section no later than May 8, 2027.
(B) For facilities that commenced construction after June 10, 2022, meet the requirements in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section upon startup or July 8, 2024, whichever is later.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
e
)(1)—Allowable Cargo Tank Test Pressure or Vacuum Change
Cargo tank or compartment capacity, liters (gal)
Annual certification-
allowable pressure or
vacuum change
(Δ p, Δ v) in
5 minutes, mm H
2
O
(in. H
2
O)
Annual certification-
allowable pressure or
vacuum change
(Δ p, Δ v) in
5 minutes, mm H
2
O
(in. H
2
O)]
Allowable pressure
change (Δ p) in
5 minutes at any
time, mm H
2
O
(in. H
2
O)
9,464 or more (2,500 or more)
25 (1.0)
12.7 (0.50)
64 (2.5)
9,463 to 5,678 (2,499 to 1,500)
38 (1.5)
19.1 (0.75)
76 (3.0)
5,677 to 3,785 (1,499 to 1,000)
51 (2.0)
25.4 (1.00)
89 (3.5)
3,784 or less (999 or less)
64 (2.5)
31.8 (1.25)
102 (4.0)
(2) Pressure test of the cargo tank's internal vapor valve as follows:
(i) After completing the tests under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, use the procedures in Method 27 to repressurize the tank to 460 mm H
2
O (18 in. H
2
O), gauge. Close the tank's internal vapor valve(s), thereby isolating the vapor return line and manifold from the tank.
(ii) Relieve the pressure in the vapor return line to atmospheric pressure, then reseal the line. After 5 minutes, record the gauge pressure in the vapor return line and manifold. The maximum allowable 5-minute pressure increase is 130 mm H
2
O (5 in. H
2
O).
(f)
Leak detection test.
The leak detection test shall be performed using Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter. A vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank shall have no leaks at any time when tested according to the procedures in this paragraph (f).
(1) The instrument reading that defines a leak is 10,000 ppm (as propane). Use propane to calibrate the instrument, setting the span at the leak definition. The response time to 90 percent of the final stable reading shall be less than 8 seconds for the detector with the sampling line and probe attached.
(2) In addition to the procedures in Method 21, include the following procedures:
(i) Perform the test on each compartment during loading of that compartment or while the compartment is still under pressure.
(ii) To eliminate a positive instrument drift, the dwell time for each leak detection shall not exceed two times the instrument response time. Purge the instrument with ambient air between each leak detection. The duration of the purge shall be in excess of two instrument response times.
(iii) Attempt to block the wind from the area being monitored. Record the highest detector reading and location for each leak.
(g)
Nitrogen pressure decay field test.
For those cargo tanks with manifolded product lines, this test procedure shall be conducted on each compartment.
(1) Record the cargo tank capacity. Upon completion of the loading operation, record the total volume loaded. Seal the cargo tank vapor collection system at the vapor coupler. The sealing apparatus shall have a pressure tap. Open the internal vapor valve(s) of the cargo tank and record the initial headspace pressure. Reduce or increase, as necessary, the initial headspace pressure to 460 mm H
2
O (18.0 in. H
2
O), gauge by releasing pressure or by adding commercial grade nitrogen gas from a high pressure cylinder capable of maintaining a pressure of 2,000 psig.
(i) The cylinder shall be equipped with a compatible two-stage regulator with a relief valve and a flow control metering valve. The flow rate of the nitrogen shall be no less than 2 cfm. The maximum allowable time to pressurize cargo tanks with headspace volumes of 1,000 gallons or less to the appropriate pressure is 4 minutes. For cargo tanks with a headspace of greater than 1,000 gallons, use as a maximum allowable time to pressurize 4 minutes or the result from the equation below, whichever is greater.
T = V
h
× 0.004
where:
T = maximum allowable time to pressurize the cargo tank, min;
V
h
= cargo tank headspace volume during testing, gal.
(2) It is recommended that after the cargo tank headspace pressure reaches approximately 460 mm H
2
O (18 in. H
2
0),
gauge, a fine adjust valve be used to adjust the headspace pressure to 460 mm H
2
O (18.0 in. H
2
O), gauge for the next 30 ±5 seconds.
(3) Reseal the cargo tank vapor collection system and record the headspace pressure after 1 minute. The measured headspace pressure after 1 minute shall be greater than the minimum allowable final headspace pressure (P
F
) as calculated from the following equation:
ER26JN95.000
where:
(P
F
) = minimum allowable final headspace pressure, in. H
2
O, gauge;
V
s
= total cargo tank shell capacity, gal;
V
h
= cargo tank headspace volume after loading, gal;
18.0 = initial pressure at start of test, in. H
2
O, gauge;
N = 5-minute continuous performance standard at any time from the fourth column of table 1 to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, inches H
2
O.
(4) Conduct the internal vapor valve portion of this test by repressurizing the cargo tank headspace with nitrogen to 460 mm H
2
O (18 in. H
2
O), gauge. Close the internal vapor valve(s), wait for 30 ±5 seconds, then relieve the pressure downstream of the vapor valve in the vapor collection system to atmospheric pressure. Wait 15 seconds, then reseal the vapor collection system. Measure and record the pressure every minute for 5 minutes. Within 5 seconds of the pressure measurement at the end of 5 minutes, open the vapor valve and record the headspace pressure as the “final pressure.”
(5) If the decrease in pressure in the vapor collection system is less than at least one of the interval pressure change values in Table 3 of this paragraph, or if the final pressure is equal to or greater than 20 percent of the 1-minute final headspace pressure determined in the test in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, then the cargo tank is considered to be a vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank.
Table 3—Pressure Change for Internal Vapor Valve Test
Time interval
Interval pressure change, mm H
2
O (in. H
2
O)
After 1 minute
28 (1.1)
After 2 minutes
56 (2.2)
After 3 minutes
84 (3.3)
After 4 minutes
112 (4.4)
After 5 minutes
140 (5.5)
(h)
Continuous performance pressure decay test.
The continuous performance pressure decay test shall be performed using Method 27 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter. Conduct only the positive pressure test using a time period (t) of 5 minutes. The initial pressure (P
i
) shall be 460 mm H
2
O (18 in. H
2
O), gauge. The maximum allowable 5-minute pressure change (Δ p) which shall be met at any time is shown in the fourth column of table 1 to paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(i)
Railcar bubble leak test procedures.
As an alternative to paragraph (e) of this section for annual certification leakage testing of gasoline cargo tanks, the owner or operator may comply with paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section for railcar gasoline cargo tanks, provided the railcar tank meets the requirement in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.
(1) Comply with the requirements of 49 CFR 173.31(d), 179.7, 180.509, and 180.511 for the testing of railcar gasoline cargo tanks.
(2) The leakage pressure test procedure required under 49 CFR 180.509(j) and used to show no indication of leakage under 49 CFR 180.511(f) shall be ASTM E 515-95 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), BS EN 1593:1999 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), or another bubble leak test procedure meeting the requirements in 49 CFR 179.7, 180.505, and 180.509.
(3) The alternative requirements in this paragraph (i) may not be used for any railcar gasoline cargo tank that collects gasoline vapors from a vapor balance system permitted under or required by a Federal, State, local, or tribal agency. A vapor balance system is a piping and collection system designed to collect gasoline vapors displaced from a storage vessel, barge, or
other container being loaded, and routes the displaced gasoline vapors into the railcar gasoline cargo tank from which liquid gasoline is being unloaded.
(j)
LEL monitoring procedures.
Compliance with the vapor concentration below the LEL level for internal floating roof storage vessels at § 63.423(b)(2) shall be determined based on the procedures specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (5) of this section. If tubing is necessary to obtain the measurements, the tubing must be non-crimping and made of Teflon or other inert material.
(1) LEL monitoring must be conducted at least once every 12 months and at other times upon request by the Administrator. If the measurement cannot be performed due to wind speeds exceeding those specified in paragraph (j)(3)(iii) of this section, the measurement must be performed within 30 days of the previous attempt.
(2) The calibration of the LEL meter must be checked per manufacturer specifications immediately before and after the measurements as specified in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. If tubing will be used for the measurements, the tubing must be attached during calibration so that the calibration gas travels through the entire measurement system.
(i) Conduct the span check using a calibration gas recommended by the LEL meter manufacturer. The calibration gas must contain a single hydrocarbon at a concentration corresponding to 50 percent of the LEL (
e.g.,
2.50 percent by volume when using methane as the calibration gas). The vendor must provide a Certificate of Analysis for the gas, and the certified concentration must be within ±2 percent (
e.g.,
2.45 percent—2.55 percent by volume when using methane as the calibration gas). The LEL span response must be between 49 percent and 51 percent. If the span check prior to the measurements does not meet this requirement, the LEL meter must be recalibrated or replaced. If the span check after the measurements does not meet this requirement, the LEL meter must be recalibrated or replaced, and the measurements must be repeated.
(ii) Check the instrumental offset response using a certified compressed gas cylinder of zero air or an ambient environment that is free of organic compounds. The pre-measurement instrumental offset response must be 0 percent LEL. If the LEL meter does not meet this requirement, the LEL meter must be recalibrated or replaced.
(3) Conduct the measurements as specified in paragraphs (j)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Measurements of the vapors within the internal floating roof storage vessel must be collected no more than 3 feet above the internal floating roof.
(ii) Measurements shall be taken for a minimum of 20 minutes, logging the measurements at least once every 15 seconds, or until one 5-minute average as determined according to paragraph (j)(5)(ii) of this section exceeds the level specified in § 63.423(b)(2).
(iii) Measurements shall be taken when the wind speed at the top of the tank is 5 mph or less to the extent practicable, but in no case shall measurements be taken when the sustained wind speed at top of tank is greater than the annual average wind speed at the site or 15 mph, whichever is less.
(iv) Measurements should be conducted when the internal floating roof is floating with limited product movement (limited filling or emptying of the tank).
(4) To determine the actual vapor concentration within the storage vessel, the percent of the LEL “as the calibration gas” must be corrected according to one of the following procedures. Alternatively, if the LEL meter used has correction factors that can be selected from the meter's program, you may enable this feature to automatically apply one of the correction factors specified in paragraphs (j)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Multiply the measurement by the published gasoline vapor correction factor for the specific LEL meter and calibration gas used.
(ii) If there is no published correction factor for gasoline vapors for the specific LEL meter used, multiply the measurement by the published correction factor for butane as a surrogate for determining the LEL of gasoline vapors. The correction factor must correspond to the calibration gas used.
(5) Use the calculation procedures in paragraphs (j)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section to determine compliance with the LEL level.
(i) For each minute while measurements are being taken, determine the one-minute average reading as the arithmetic average of the corrected individual measurements (taken at least once every 15 seconds) during the minute.
(ii) Starting with the end of the fifth minute of data, calculate a five-minute rolling average as the arithmetic average of the previous five one-minute readings determined under paragraph (j)(5)(i) of this section. Determine a new five-minute average reading for every subsequent one-minute reading.
(iii) Each five-minute rolling average must meet the LEL level specified in § 63.423(b)(2).
[59 FR 64318, Dec. 14, 1994; 60 FR 7627, Feb. 8, 1995; 60 FR 32913, June 26, 1995; 68 FR 70965, Dec. 19, 2003; 89 FR 39361, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.426
Alternative means of emission limitation.
For determining the acceptability of alternative means of emission limitation for storage vessels under § 63.423, the provisions of § 60.114b of this chapter apply.
§ 63.427
Continuous monitoring.
(a) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in § 63.422(b)(1) shall install, calibrate, certify, operate, and maintain, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a continuous monitoring system (CMS) as specified in paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, except as allowed in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(1) Where a carbon adsorption system is used, a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) capable of measuring organic compound concentration shall be installed in the exhaust air stream.
(2) Where a refrigeration condenser system is used, a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) capable of measuring temperature shall be installed immediately downstream from the outlet to the condenser section. Alternatively, a CEMS capable of measuring organic compound concentration may be installed in the exhaust air stream.
(3) Where a thermal oxidation system is used, a CPMS capable of measuring temperature must be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream from the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(4) Where a flare meeting the requirements in § 63.11(b) is used, a heat-sensing device, such as an ultraviolet beam sensor or a thermocouple, must be installed in proximity to the pilot light to indicate the presence of a flame.
(5) Monitoring an alternative operating parameter or a parameter of a vapor processing system other than those listed in this paragraph will be allowed upon demonstrating to the Administrator's satisfaction that the alternative parameter demonstrates continuous compliance with the emission standard in § 63.422(b) or § 60.112b(a)(3)(ii) of this chapter.
(b) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in § 63.422(b)(1) shall operate the vapor processing system in a manner not to exceed the operating parameter value for the parameter described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, or to go below the operating parameter value for the parameter described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, and established using the procedures in § 63.425(b). In cases where an alternative parameter pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section is approved, each owner or operator shall operate the vapor processing system in a manner not to exceed or not to go below, as appropriate, the alternative operating parameter value. Operation of the vapor processing system in a manner exceeding or going below the operating parameter value, as specified above, shall constitute a violation of the emission standard in § 63.422(b)(1).
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in § 63.422(b)(2) shall install, calibrate, certify, operate, and maintain a CMS as specified in § 60.504a(a) through (d) of this chapter, as applicable. You may use the limited alternative monitoring methods as
specified in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter, if applicable.
(d) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in § 63.422(b)(2) shall operate the vapor processing system in a manner consistent with the minimum and/or maximum operating parameter value or procedures described in §§ 60.502a(a) and (c) and 60.504a(a) and (c) of this chapter. Operation of the vapor processing system in a manner that constitutes a period of excess emissions or failure to perform procedures required shall constitute a deviation of the emission standard in § 63.422(b)(2).
(e) Each owner or operator of gasoline storage vessels subject to the provisions of § 63.423 shall comply with the monitoring requirements in § 60.116b of this chapter, except records shall be kept for at least 5 years. If a closed vent system and control device are used, as specified in § 60.112b(a)(3) of this chapter, to comply with the requirements in § 63.423, the owner or operator shall also comply with the requirements in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.
(1) If the gasoline storage vessel is subject to the provision in § 63.423(a) or if the gasoline storage vessel is subject to the provision in § 63.423(b) and a control device other than a flare is used for the gasoline storage vessel, the owner or operator shall also comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If the gasoline storage vessel is subject to the provision in § 63.423(b) and a flare is used as the control device for the affected gasoline storage vessel, you must comply with the monitoring requirements in § 60.504a(c) of this chapter.
(f) As an alternative to the pressure monitoring requirements in § 60.504a(d) of this chapter, you may comply with the pressure monitoring requirements in § 60.503(d) of this chapter during any performance test or performance evaluation conducted under § 63.425(c) to demonstrate compliance with the provisions in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter.
[59 FR 46350, Sept. 8, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 70966, Dec. 19, 2003; 89 FR 39363, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.428
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(a) The initial notifications required for existing affected sources under § 63.9(b)(2) shall be submitted by 1 year after an affected source becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart or by December 16, 1996, whichever is later. Affected sources that are major sources on December 16, 1996, and plan to be area sources by December 15, 1997, shall include in this notification a brief, non-binding description of and schedule for the action(s) that are planned to achieve area source status.
(b) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep records in either hardcopy or electronic form of the test results for each gasoline cargo tank loading at the facility for at least 5 years as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep records for at least 5 years as specified in paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section.
(1) Annual certification testing performed under § 63.425(e) and railcar bubble leak testing performed under § 63.425(i); and
(2) Continuous performance testing performed at any time at that facility under § 63.425(f), (g), and (h).
(3) The documentation file shall be kept up-to-date for each gasoline cargo tank loading at the facility. The documentation for each test shall include, as a minimum, the following information:
(i) Name of test: Annual Certification Test—Method 27 (§ 63.425(e)(1)); Annual Certification Test—Internal Vapor Valve (§ 63.425(e)(2)); Leak Detection Test (§ 63.425(f)); Nitrogen Pressure Decay Field Test (§ 63.425(g)); Continuous Performance Pressure Decay Test (§ 63.425(h)); or Railcar Bubble Leak Test Procedure (§ 63.425(i)).
(ii) Cargo tank owner's name and address.
(iii) Cargo tank identification number.
(iv) Test location and date.
(v) Tester name and signature.
(vi) Witnessing inspector, if any: Name, signature, and affiliation.
(vii) Vapor tightness repair: Nature of repair work and when performed in relation to vapor tightness testing.
(viii) Test results: tank or compartment capacity; test pressure; pressure or vacuum change, mm of water; time period of test; number of leaks found with instrument; and leak definition.
(4) Records of each instance in which liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation required under § 60.502(e)(1) or § 60.502a(e)(1) of this chapter, as applicable, was not provided or available in the terminal's records. These records shall include, at a minimum:
(i) Cargo tank owner and address.
(ii) Cargo tank identification number.
(iii) Date and time liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank without proper documentation.
(iv) Date proper documentation was received or statement that proper documentation was never received.
(5) Records of each instance when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks not using submerged filling, as defined in § 63.421, not equipped with vapor collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system, or not properly connected to the terminal's vapor collection system. These records shall include, at a minimum:
(i) Date and time of liquid product loading into gasoline cargo tank not using submerged filling, improperly equipped or improperly connected.
(ii) Type of deviation (
e.g.,
not submerged filling, incompatible equipment, not properly connected).
(iii) Cargo tank identification number.
(c) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in § 63.422(b)(1) shall:
(1) Keep an up-to-date, readily accessible record of the continuous monitoring data required under § 63.427(a). This record shall indicate the time intervals during which loadings of gasoline cargo tanks have occurred or, alternatively, shall record the operating parameter data only during such loadings. The date and time of day shall also be indicated at reasonable intervals on this record.
(2) Record and report simultaneously with the notification of compliance status required under § 63.9(h):
(i) All data and calculations, engineering assessments, and manufacturer's recommendations used in determining the operating parameter value under § 63.425(b); and
(ii) The following information when using a flare under provisions of § 63.11(b) to comply with § 63.422(b):
(A) Flare design (
i.e.,
steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted); and
(B) All visible emissions readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required under § 63.425(b).
(3) If an owner or operator requests approval to use a vapor processing system or monitor an operating parameter other than those specified in § 63.427(a), the owner or operator shall submit a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures. The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the permit application.
(4) Keep written procedures required under § 63.8(d)(2) on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you shall keep previous (
i.e.,
superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action shall be included in the plan as required under § 63.8(d)(2).
(d) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in § 63.422(b)(2) shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable, for a minimum of five years unless otherwise specified in this section:
(1) For each thermal oxidation system used to comply with the emission limitations in § 63.422(b)(2) by monitoring the combustion zone temperature as specified in § 60.502a(c)(1)(ii) of
this chapter, for each pressure CPMS used to comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter, and for each vapor recovery system used to comply with the emission limitations in § 63.422(b)(2), maintain records, as applicable, of:
(i) The applicable operating or emission limit for the CMS. For combustion zone temperature operating limits, include the applicable date range the limit applies based on when the performance test was conducted.
(ii) Each 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature measured by the temperature CPMS, each 5-minute average reading from the pressure CPMS, and each 3-hour rolling average total organic compounds (TOC) concentration (as propane) measured by the TOC CEMS.
(iii) For each deviation of the 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature operating limit, maximum loading pressure specified in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter, or 3-hour rolling average TOC concentration (as propane), the start date and time, duration, cause, and the corrective action taken.
(iv) For each period when there was a CMS outage or the CMS was out of control, the start date and time, duration, cause, and the corrective action taken. For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, the corrective action taken shall include an indication of the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e).
(v) Each inspection or calibration of the CMS including a unique identifier, make, and model number of the CMS, and date of calibration check. For TOC CEMS, include the type of CEMS used (
i.e.,
flame ionization detector, nondispersive infrared analyzer) and an indication of whether methane is excluded from the TOC concentration reported in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.
(vi) TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, also keep records of:
(A) The quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks for the past 10 adsorption cycles prior to the CEMS outage.
(B) The vacuum pressure, purge gas quantities, and duration of the vacuum/purge cycles used for the past 10 desorption cycles prior to the CEMS outage.
(C) The quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks for each adsorption cycle while using the alternative.
(D) The vacuum pressure, purge gas quantities, and duration of the vacuum/purge cycles for each desorption cycle while using the alternative.
(2) For each flare used to comply with the emission limitations in § 63.422(b)(2) and for each thermal oxidation system using the flare monitoring alternative as provided in § 60.502a(c)(1)(iii) of this chapter, maintain records of:
(i) The output of the monitoring device used to detect the presence of a pilot flame as required in § 63.670(b) for a minimum of 2 years. Retain records of each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute that no pilot flame is present when gasoline vapors were routed to the flare for a minimum of 5 years. The record must identify the start and end time and date of each 15-minute block.
(ii) Visible emissions observations as specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, as applicable, for a minimum of 3 years.
(A) If visible emissions observations are performed using Method 22 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, the record must identify the date, the start and end time of the visible emissions observation, and the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation. If the owner or operator performs visible emissions observations more than one time during a day, include separate records for each visible emissions observation performed.
(B) For each 2-hour period for which visible emissions are observed for more than 5 minutes in 2 consecutive hours but visible emissions observations according to Method 22 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter were not conducted for the full 2-hour period, the record must include the date, the start and end time of the visible emissions observation, and an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-
hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.
(iii) Each 15-minute block period during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) when liquid product is being loaded into gasoline cargo tanks for at least 15-minutes identifying the specific operating limit that was not met.
(iv) The 15-minute block average cumulative flows for the thermal oxidation system vent gas or flare vent gas and, if applicable, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air specified to be monitored under § 63.670(i), along with the date and start and end time for the 15-minute block. If multiple monitoring locations are used to determine cumulative vent gas flow, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air, retain records of the 15-minute block average flows for each monitoring location for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If pressure and temperature monitoring is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average temperature, pressure and molecular weight of the thermal oxidation system vent gas, flare vent gas, or assist gas stream for each measurement location used to determine the 15-minute block average cumulative flows for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If you use the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii) of this chapter, the required supplemental gas flow rate (winter and summer, if applicable) and the actual monitored supplemental gas flow rate for the 15-minute block. Retain the supplemental gas flow rate records for a minimum of 5 years.
(v) The thermal oxidation system vent gas or flare vent gas compositions specified to be monitored under § 63.670(j). Retain records of individual component concentrations from each compositional analyses for a minimum of 2 years. If NHV
vg
analyzer is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average values for a minimum of 5 years. If you demonstrate your gas streams have consistent composition using the provisions in § 63.670(j)(6) as specified in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) of this chapter, retain records of the required minimum ratio of gasoline loaded to total liquid product loaded and the actual ratio on a 15-minute block basis. If applicable, you must retain records of the required minimum gasoline loading rate as specified in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) and the actual gasoline loading rate on a 15-minute block basis for a minimum of 5 years.
(vi) Each 15-minute block average operating parameter calculated following the methods specified in § 63.670(k) through (n), as applicable.
(vii) All periods during which the owner or operator does not perform monitoring according to the procedures in § 63.670(g), (i), and (j) or in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) and (viii) of this chapter as applicable. Note the start date, start time, and duration in minutes for each period.
(viii) An indication of whether “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading” excludes periods when liquid product is loaded but no gasoline cargo tanks are being loaded or if liquid product loading is assumed to be loaded into gasoline cargo tanks according to the provisions in § 60.502a(c)(3)(i) of this chapter, records of all time periods when “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading”, and records of time periods when there were no “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading”.
(ix) If you comply with the flare tip velocity operating limit using the one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment as provided in § 60.502a(c)(3)(ix) of this chapter, maintain records of the applicable one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment for as long as you use this compliance method.
(x) For each parameter monitored using a CMS, retain the records specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(x)(A) through (C) of this section, as applicable:
(A) For each deviation, record the start date and time, duration, cause, and corrective action taken.
(B) For each period when there is a CMS outage or the CMS is out of control, record the start date and time, duration, cause, and corrective action taken.
(C) Each inspection or calibration of the CMS including a unique identifier, make, and model number of the CMS, and date of calibration check.
(3) Records of all 5-minute time periods during which liquid product is loaded into gasoline cargo tanks or assumed to be loaded into gasoline cargo tanks and records of all 5-minute time periods when there was no liquid product loaded into gasoline cargo tanks.
(4) Keep written procedures required under § 63.8(d)(2) on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you shall keep previous (
i.e.,
superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action shall be included in the plan as required under § 63.8(d)(2).
(e) Each owner or operator of storage vessels subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep records as specified in § 60.115b of this chapter, except records shall be kept for at least 5 years. Additionally, for each storage vessel complying with the provisions in § 63.423(b)(2), keep records of each LEL monitoring event as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (9) of this section.
(1) Date and time of the LEL monitoring, and the storage vessel being monitored.
(2) A description of the monitoring event (
e.g.,
monitoring conducted concurrent with visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) of this chapter or § 63.1063(d)(2); monitoring that occurred on a date other than the visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) or § 63.1063(d)(2); re-monitoring due to high winds; re-monitoring after repair attempt).
(3) Wind speed at the top of the storage vessel on the date of LEL monitoring.
(4) The LEL meter manufacturer and model number used, as well as an indication of whether tubing was used during the LEL monitoring, and if so, the type and length of tubing used.
(5) Calibration checks conducted before and after making the measurements, including both the span check and instrumental offset. This includes the hydrocarbon used as the calibration gas, the Certificate of Analysis for the calibration gas(es), the results of the calibration check, and any corrective action for calibration checks that do not meet the required response.
(6) Location of the measurements and the location of the floating roof.
(7) Each measurement (taken at least once every 15 seconds). The records should indicate whether the recorded values were automatically corrected using the meter's programming. If the values were not automatically corrected, record both the raw (as the calibration gas) and corrected measurements, as well as the correction factor used.
(8) Each 5-minute rolling average reading.
(9) If the vapor concentration of the storage vessel was above 25 percent of the LEL on a 5-minue rolling average basis, a description of whether the floating roof was repaired, replaced, or taken out of gasoline service.
(f) Each owner or operator complying with the provisions of § 63.424 shall keep records of the information in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Each owner or operator complying with the provisions of § 63.424(b) shall record the following information in the logbook for each leak that is detected:
(i) The equipment type and identification number;
(ii) The nature of the leak (
i.e.,
vapor or liquid) and the method of detection (
i.e.,
sight, sound, or smell);
(iii) The date the leak was detected and the date of each attempt to repair the leak;
(iv) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak;
(v) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if the leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak;
(vi) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if the leak is not repaired within 15 days; and
(vii) The date of successful repair of the leak.
(2) Each owner or operator complying with the provisions of § 63.424(c) or § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter shall keep records of the following information:
(i) Types, identification numbers, and locations of all equipment in gasoline service.
(ii) For each leak inspection conducted under § 63.424(c) or § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter, keep the following records:
(A) An indication if the leak inspection was conducted under § 63.424(c) or § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter.
(B) Leak determination method used for the leak inspection.
(iii) For leak inspections conducted with Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, keep the following additional records:
(A) Date of inspection.
(B) Inspector name.
(C) Monitoring instrument identification.
(D) Identification of all equipment surveyed and the instrument reading for each piece of equipment.
(E) Date and time of instrument calibration and initials of operator performing the calibration.
(F) Calibration gas cylinder identification, certification date, and certified concentration.
(G) Instrument scale used.
(H) Results of the daily calibration drift assessment.
(iv) For leak inspections conducted with OGI, keep the records specified in section 12 of appendix K to part 60 of this chapter.
(v) For each leak that is detected during a leak inspection or by audio/visual/olfactory methods during normal duties, record the following information:
(A) The equipment type and identification number.
(B) The date the leak was detected, the name of the person who found the leak, nature of the leak (
i.e.,
vapor or liquid) and the method of detection (
i.e.,
audio/visual/olfactory, Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, or OGI).
(C) The date of each attempt to repair the leak and the repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.
(D) The date of successful repair of the leak, the method of monitoring used to confirm the repair, and if Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter is used to confirm the repair, the maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60. If OGI is used to confirm the repair, keep video footage of the repair confirmation.
(E) For each repair delayed beyond 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak, record “Repair delayed”, the reason for the delay, and the expected date of successful repair. The owner or operator (or designate) whose decision it was that repair could not be carried out in the 15-calendar day timeframe must sign the record.
(F) For each leak that is not repairable, the maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter at the time the leak is determined to be not repairable, a video captured by the OGI camera showing that emissions are still visible, or a signed record that the leak is still detectable via audio/visual/olfactory methods.
(g) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep the following records for each deviation of an emissions limitation (including operating limit), work practice standard, or operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart.
(1) Date, start time, and duration of each deviation.
(2) List of the affected sources or equipment for each deviation, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(3) Actions taken to minimize emissions.
(h) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) may be maintained in electronic format. This
ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated authority or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
(i) Records of each performance test or performance evaluation conducted and each notification and report submitted to the Administrator for at least 5 years. For each performance test, include an indication of whether liquid product loading is assumed to be loaded into gasoline cargo tanks or periods when liquid product is loaded but no gasoline cargo tanks are being loaded are excluded in the determination of the combustion zone temperature operating limit according to the provision in § 60.503a(c)(8)(ii) of this chapter. If complying with the alternative in § 63.427(f), for each performance test or performance evaluation conducted, include the pressure every 5 minutes while a gasoline cargo tank is being loaded and the highest instantaneous pressure that occurs during each loading.
(j) Prior to November 4, 2024, each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall submit performance test reports to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.13. Beginning on November 4, 2024, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test and each CEMS performance evaluation required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k). As required by § 63.7(g)(2)(iv), you must include the value for the combustion zone temperature operating parameter limit set based on your performance test in the performance test report. If the monitoring alternative in § 63.427(f) is used, indicate that this monitoring alternative is being used, identify each loading rack that loads gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart, and report the highest instantaneous pressure monitored during the performance test or performance evaluation for each identified loading rack. Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) and performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test or performance evaluation must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT and performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.
(k) The owner or operator must submit all Notification of Compliance Status reports in PDF format to the EPA following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Gasoline Distribution Sector Lead.
(l) Prior to May 8, 2027, each owner or operator of a source subject to the requirements of this subpart shall submit reports as specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable.
(1) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of § 63.424 shall report to the Administrator a description of the types, identification numbers, and locations of all equipment in gasoline service. For facilities electing to implement an instrument program under § 63.424(b)(4), the report shall contain a full description of the program.
(i) In the case of an existing source or a new source that has an initial startup date before December 14, 1994, the report shall be submitted with the notification of compliance status required under § 63.9(h), unless an extension of compliance is granted under § 63.6(i). If an extension of compliance is granted, the report shall be submitted on a date scheduled by the Administrator.
(ii) In the case of new sources that did not have an initial startup date before December 14, 1994, the report shall be submitted with the application for
approval of construction, as described in § 63.5(d).
(2) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall include in a semiannual report to the Administrator the following information, as applicable:
(i) Each loading of a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation had not been previously obtained by the facility;
(ii) Periodic reports as specified in § 60.115b of this chapter; and
(iii) The number of equipment leaks not repaired within 5 days after detection.
(3) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit an excess emissions report to the Administrator in accordance with § 63.10(e)(3), whether or not a CMS is installed at the facility. The following occurrences are excess emissions events under this subpart, and the following information shall be included in the excess emissions report, as applicable:
(i) Each exceedance or failure to maintain, as appropriate, the monitored operating parameter value determined under § 63.425(b)(3). The report shall include the monitoring data for the days on which exceedances or failures to maintain have occurred, and a description and timing of the steps taken to repair or perform maintenance on the vapor collection and processing systems or the CMS.
(ii) Each instance of a nonvapor-tight gasoline cargo tank loading at the facility in which the owner or operator failed to take steps to assure that such cargo tank would not be reloaded at the facility before vapor tightness documentation for that cargo tank was obtained.
(iii) Each reloading of a nonvapor-tight gasoline cargo tank at the facility before vapor tightness documentation for that cargo tank is obtained by the facility in accordance with § 63.422(c).
(iv) For each occurrence of an equipment leak for which no repair attempt was made within 5 days or for which repair was not completed within 15 days after detection:
(A) The date on which the leak was detected;
(B) The date of each attempt to repair the leak;
(C) The reasons for the delay of repair; and
(D) The date of successful repair.
(4) Each owner or operator of a facility meeting the criteria in § 63.420(c) shall perform the requirements of this paragraph (l)(4), all of which will be available for public inspection:
(i) Document and report to the Administrator not later than December 16, 1996, for existing facilities, within 30 days for existing facilities subject to § 63.420(c) after December 16, 1996, or at startup for new facilities the methods, procedures, and assumptions supporting the calculations for determining criteria in § 63.420(c);
(ii) Maintain records to document that the facility parameters established under § 63.420(c) have not been exceeded; and
(iii) Report annually to the Administrator that the facility parameters established under § 63.420(c) have not been exceeded.
(iv) At any time following the notification required under paragraph (l)(4)(i) of this section and approval by the Administrator of the facility parameters, and prior to any of the parameters being exceeded, the owner or operator may submit a report to request modification of any facility parameter to the Administrator for approval. Each such request shall document any expected HAP emission change resulting from the change in parameter.
(5) Each owner or operator of a facility meeting the criteria in § 63.420(d) shall perform the requirements of this paragraph (l)(5), all of which will be available for public inspection:
(i) Document and report to the Administrator not later than December 16, 1996, for existing facilities, within 30 days for existing facilities subject to § 63.420(d) after December 16, 1996, or at startup for new facilities the use of the emission screening equations in § 63.420(a)(1) or (b)(1) and the calculated value of E
T
or E
P
;
(ii) Maintain a record of the calculations in § 63.420 (a)(1) or (b)(1), including methods, procedures, and assumptions
supporting the calculations for determining criteria in § 63.420(d); and
(iii) At any time following the notification required under paragraph (l)(5)(i) of this section, and prior to any of the parameters being exceeded, the owner or operator may notify the Administrator of modifications to the facility parameters. Each such notification shall document any expected HAP emission change resulting from the change in parameter.
(m) On or after May 8, 2027, you must submit to the Administrator semiannual reports with the applicable information in paragraphs (m)(1) through (8) of this section following the procedure specified in paragraph (n) of this section.
(1) Report the following general facility information:
(i) Facility name.
(ii) Facility physical address, including city, county, and State.
(iii) Latitude and longitude of facility's physical location. Coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.
(iv) The following information for the contact person:
(A) Name.
(B) Mailing address.
(C) Telephone number.
(D) Email address.
(v) The type of facility (bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station).
(vi) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. You are no longer required to provide the date of report when the report is submitted via CEDRI.
(vii) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces the requirement in this paragraph (m)(1)(vii).
(2) For each thermal oxidation system used to comply with the emission limit in § 60.502a(c)(1) of this chapter by monitoring the combustion zone temperature as specified in § 60.502a(c)(1)(ii), for each pressure CPMS used to comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(h), and for each vapor recovery system used to comply with the emission limitations in § 60.502a(c)(2), report the following information for the CMS:
(i) For all instances when the temperature CPMS measured 3-hour rolling averages below the established operating limit or when the vapor collection system pressure exceeded the maximum loading pressure specified in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter when liquid product was being loaded into gasoline cargo tanks or when the TOC CEMS measured 3-hour rolling average concentrations higher than the applicable emission limitation when the vapor recovery system was operating:
(A) The date and start time of the deviation.
(B) The duration of the deviation in hours.
(C) Each 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature, average pressure, or 3-hour rolling average TOC concentration during the deviation. For TOC concentration, indicate whether methane is excluded from the TOC concentration.
(D) A unique identifier for the CMS.
(E) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.
(F) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken.
(ii) For all instances that the temperature CPMS for measuring the combustion zone temperature or pressure CPMS was not operating or out of control when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks, or the TOC CEMS was not operating or was out of control when the vapor recovery system was operating:
(A) The date and start time of the deviation.
(B) The duration of the deviation in hours.
(C) A unique identifier for the CMS.
(D) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.
(E) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken. For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, the corrective action taken shall include an indication of the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e).
(F) For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, report either an indication that there were no deviations from the operating limits when using the limited alternative or report the number of each of the following types of deviations that occurred during the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e).
(
1
) The number of adsorption cycles when the quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks exceeded the operating limit established in § 60.504a(e)(1) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.
(
2
) The number of desorption cycles when the vacuum pressure was below the average vacuum pressure as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(i) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.
(
3
) The number of desorption cycles when the quantity of purge gas used was below the average quantity of purge gas as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(ii) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.
(
4
) The number of desorption cycles when the duration of the vacuum/purge cycle was less than the average duration as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(iii) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.
(3) For each flare used to comply with the emission limitations in § 60.502a(c)(3) of this chapter and for each thermal oxidation system using the flare monitoring alternative as provided in § 60.502a(c)(1)(iii), report:
(i) The date and start and end times for each of the following instances:
(A) Each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute when gasoline vapors were routed to the flare and no pilot flame was present.
(B) Each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes. Additionally, report the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation or an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.
(C) Each 15-minute period for which the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) were not met. You must identify the specific operating limit that was not met. Additionally, report the information in paragraphs (m)(3)(i)(C)(
1
) through (
3
) of this section, as applicable.
(
1
) If you use the loading rate operating limits as determined in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) of this chapter alone or in combination with the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii) of this chapter, the required minimum ratio and the actual ratio of gasoline loaded to total product loaded for the rolling 15-minute period and, if applicable, the required minimum quantity and the actual quantity of gasoline loaded, in gallons, for the rolling 15-minute period.
(
2
) If you use the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii) of this chapter, the required minimum supplemental gas flow rate and the actual supplemental gas flow rate including units of flow rates for the 15-minute block.
(
3
) If you use parameter monitoring systems other than those specified in paragraphs (m)(3)(i)(C)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section, the value of the net heating value operating parameter(s) during the deviation determined following the methods in § 63.670(k) through (n) as applicable.
(ii) The start date, start time, and duration in minutes for each period when “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading” were routed to the flare or thermal oxidation system and the applicable monitoring was not performed.
(iii) For each instance reported under paragraphs (m)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section that involves CMS, report the following information:
(A) A unique identifier for the CMS.
(B) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.
(C) The cause of the deviation or downtime and the corrective action taken.
(4) For any instance in which liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation required under
§ 60.502a(e)(1) of this chapter was not provided or available in the terminal's records, report:
(i) Cargo tank owner and address.
(ii) Cargo tank identification number.
(iii) Date and time liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank without proper documentation.
(iv) Date proper documentation was received or statement that proper documentation was never received.
(5) For each instance when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks not using submerged filling, as defined in § 63.421, not equipped with vapor collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system, or not properly connected to the terminal's vapor collection system, report:
(i) Date and time of liquid product loading into gasoline cargo tank not using submerged filling, improperly equipped, or improperly connected.
(ii) The type of deviation (
e.g.,
not submerged filling, incompatible equipment, not properly connected).
(iii) Cargo tank identification number.
(6) Report the following information for each leak inspection required and each leak identified under § 63.424(c) and § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter.
(i) For each leak detected during a leak inspection required under § 63.424(c) and § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter, report:
(A) The date of inspection.
(B) The leak determination method (OGI or Method 21).
(C) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were detected.
(D) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were repaired within 15 calendar days.
(E) The total number and type of equipment for which no repair attempt was made within 5 calendar days of the leaks being identified.
(F) The total number and types of equipment that were placed on the delay of repair, as specified in § 60.502a(j)(8) of this chapter.
(ii) For leaks identified under § 63.424(c) by audio/visual/olfactory methods during normal duties report:
(A) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were identified.
(B) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were repaired within 15 calendar days.
(C) The total number and type of equipment for which no repair attempt was made within 5 calendar days of the leaks being identified.
(D) The total number and type of equipment placed on the delay of repair, as specified in § 60.502a(j)(8) of this chapter.
(iii) The total number of leaks on the delay of repair list at the start of the reporting period.
(iv) The total number of leaks on the delay of repair list at the end of the reporting period.
(v) For each leak that was on the delay of repair list at any time during the reporting period, report:
(A) Unique equipment identification number.
(B) Type of equipment.
(C) Leak determination method (OGI, Method 21, or audio/visual/olfactory).
(D) The reason(s) why the repair was not feasible within 15 calendar days.
(E) If applicable, the date repair was completed.
(7) For each gasoline storage vessel subject to requirements in § 63.423, report:
(i) The information specified in § 60.115b(a) or (b) of this chapter or deviations in measured parameter values from the plan specified in § 60.115b(c) of this chapter, depending upon the control equipment installed, or, if applicable, the information specified in § 63.1066(b).
(ii) If you are complying with § 63.423(b)(2), for each deviation in LEL monitoring, report:
(A) Date and start and end times of the LEL monitoring, and the storage vessel being monitored.
(B) Description of the monitoring event,
e.g.,
monitoring conducted concurrent with visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) of this chapter or § 63.1063(d)(2); monitoring that occurred on a date other than the visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) or § 63.1063(d)(2); re-monitoring due to high winds; re-monitoring after repair attempt.
(C) Wind speed in miles per hour at the top of the storage vessel on the date of LEL monitoring.
(D) The highest 5-minute rolling average reading during the monitoring event.
(E) Whether the floating roof was repaired, replaced, or taken out of gasoline service. If the floating roof was repaired or replaced, also report the information in paragraphs (m)(7)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section for each re-monitoring conducted to confirm the repair.
(8) If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, operating parameters, or work practice standards, then provide a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations, operating parameters, or work practice standards during the reporting period. If there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system (including a CEMS or CPMS) was inoperable or out-of-control, then provide a statement that there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system was inoperable or out-of-control during the reporting period.
(n) Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall submit semiannual compliance reports with the information specified in paragraph (l) or (m) of this section to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.13. Beginning on May 8, 2027, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for one year, whichever date is later, you must submit all subsequent semiannual compliance reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Gasoline Distribution Sector Lead. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated State agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.
[89 FR 39364, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.429
Implementation and enforcement.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.420, 63.422 through 63.423, and 63.424. Any owner or operator requesting to use an alternative means of emission limitation for storage vessels covered by § 63.423 must follow the procedures in § 63.426.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart, and any alternatives to § 63.427(a)(1) through (4) per § 63.427(a)(5).
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(5) Approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.
[68 FR 37348, June 23, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 39370, May 8, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. R, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart R of Part 63—General Provisions Applicability to This Subpart
Table 1 to Subpart R of Part 63—General Provisions Applicability to This Subpart
Reference
Applies to this subpart
Comment
63.1(a)(1)
Yes.
63.1(a)(2)
Yes.
63.1(a)(3)
Yes.
63.1(a)(4)
Yes.
63.1(a)(5)
No
Section reserved.
63.1(a)(6)
Yes.
63.1(a)(7) through (9)
No
Sections reserved.
63.1(a)(10)
Yes.
63.1(a)(11)
Yes.
63.1(a)(12)
Yes.
63.1(b)(1)
No
This subpart specifies applicability in § 63.420.
63.1(b)(2)
Yes.
63.1(b)(3)
Yes
Except this subpart specifies additional reporting and recordkeeping for some large area sources in § 63.428. These additional requirements only apply prior to the date the applicability equations are no longer applicable.
63.1(c)(1)
Yes.
63.1(c)(2)
Yes
Some small sources are not subject to this subpart.
63.1(c)(3)
No
Section reserved.
63.1(c)(4)
No
Section reserved.
63.1(c)(5)
Yes.
63.1(c)(6)
Yes.
63.1(d)
No
Section reserved.
63.1(e)
Yes.
63.2
Yes
Additional definitions in § 63.421.
63.3(a)-(c)
Yes.
63.4(a)(1) and (2)
Yes.
63.4(a)(3) through (5)
No
Sections reserved.
63.4(b)
Yes.
63.4(c)
Yes.
63.5(a)(1)
Yes.
63.5(a)(2)
Yes.
63.5(b)(1)
Yes.
63.5(b)(2)
No
Section reserved.
63.5(b)(3)
Yes.
63.5(b)(4)
Yes.
63.5(b)(5)
No
Section reserved.
63.5(b)(6)
Yes.
63.5(c)
No
Section reserved.
63.5(d)(1)
Yes.
63.5(d)(2)
Yes.
63.5(d)(3)
Yes.
63.5(d)(4)
Yes.
63.5(e)
Yes.
63.5(f)(1)
Yes.
63.5(f)(2)
Yes.
63.6(a)
Yes.
63.6(b)(1)
Yes.
63.6(b)(2)
Yes.
63.6(b)(3)
Yes.
63.6(b)(4)
Yes.
63.6(b)(5)
Yes.
63.6(b)(6)
No
Section reserved.
63.6(b)(7)
Yes.
63.6(c)(1)
No
This subpart specifies the compliance date.
63.6(c)(2)
Yes.
63.6(c)(3) and (4)
No
Sections reserved.
63.6(c)(5)
Yes.
63.6(d)
No
Section reserved.
63.6(e)
No
See § 62.420(k) for general duty requirement.
63.6(f)(1)
No
63.6(f)(2)
Yes.
63.6(f)(3)
Yes.
63.6(g)
Yes.
63.6(h)
No
This subpart does not require COMS; this subpart specifies requirements for visible emissions observations for flares.
63.6(i)(1) through (14)
Yes.
63.6(i)(15)
No
Section reserved.
63.6(i)(16)
Yes.
63.6(j)
Yes.
63.7(a)(1)
Yes.
63.7(a)(2)
Yes.
63.7(a)(3)
Yes.
63.7(a)(4)
Yes.
63.7(b)
Yes.
63.7(c)
Yes.
63.7(d)
Yes.
63.7(e)(1)
No
This subpart specifies performance test conditions.
63.7(e)(2)
Yes.
63.7(e)(3)
Yes.
63.7(e)(4)
Yes.
63.7(f)
Yes.
63.7(g)
Yes
Except this subpart specifies how and when the performance test and performance evaluation results are reported.
63.7(h)
Yes.
63.8(a)(1)
Yes.
63.8(a)(2)
Yes.
63.8(a)(3)
No
Section reserved.
63.8(a)(4)
Yes.
63.8(b)(1)
Yes.
63.8(b)(2)
Yes.
63.8(b)(3)
Yes.
63.8(c)(1) introductory text
Yes.
63.8(c)(1)(i)
No
63.8(c)(1)(ii)
Yes.
63.8(c)(1)(iii)
No
63.8(c)(2)
Yes.
63.8(c)(3)
Yes.
63.8(c)(4)
Yes.
63.8(c)(5)
No
This subpart does not require COMS.
63.8(c)(6) through (8)
Yes.
63.8(d)(1) and (2)
Yes.
63.8(d)(3)
No
This subpart specifies CMS records requirements.
63.8(e)
Yes
Except this subpart specifies how and when the performance evaluation results are reported.
63.8(f)(1) through (5)
Yes.
63.8(f)(6)
Yes.
63.8(g)
Yes.
63.9(a)
Yes.
63.9(b)(1)
Yes.
63.9(b)(2)
Yes
Except this subpart allows additional time for existing sources to submit initial notification. Section 63.428(a) specifies submittal by 1 year after being subject to the rule or December 16, 1996, whichever is later.
63.9(b)(3)
No
Section reserved.
63.9(b)(4)
Yes.
63.9(b)(5)
Yes.
63.9(c)
Yes.
63.9(d)
Yes.
63.9(e)
Yes.
63.9(f)
No
63.9(g)
Yes.
63.9(h)(1) through (3)
Yes
Except this subpart specifies how to submit the Notification of Compliance Status.
63.9(h)(4)
No
Section reserved.
63.9(h)(5) and (6)
Yes.
63.9(i)
Yes.
63.9(j)
Yes.
63.9(k)
Yes.
63.10(a)
Yes.
63.10(b)(1)
Yes.
63.10(b)(2)(i), (ii), (iv), and (v)
No
This subpart specifies recordkeeping requirements for deviations.
63.10(b)(2)(iii) and (vi) through (xiv)
Yes.
63.10(b)(3)
Yes.
63.10(c)(1)
Yes.
63.10(c)(2) through (4)
No
Sections reserved.
63.10(c)(5) through (8)
Yes.
63.10(c)(9)
No.
Section reserved.
63.10(c)(10) through (14)
Yes.
63.10(c)(15)
No
63.10(d)(1)
Yes
63.10(d)(2)
No
This subpart specifies how and when the performance test results are reported.
63.10(d)(3)
No
This subpart specifies reporting requirements for visible emissions observations for flares.
63.10(d)(4)
Yes.
63.10(d)(5)
No
63.10(e)(1)
Yes.
63.10(e)(2) through (4)
No
This subpart specifies reporting requirements for CMS and continuous opacity monitoring systems.
63.10(f)
Yes.
63.11(a) and (b)
Yes
Except these provisions no longer apply upon compliance with the provisions in §§ 63.422(b)(2) and 63.425(d)(2) for flares to meet the requirements specified in §§ 60.502a(c)(3) and 60.504a(c) of this chapter.
63.11(c), (d), and (e)
Yes
Except these provisions do not apply to monitoring required under § 63.425(b)(1) or (c)(1) and these provisions no longer apply upon compliance with the provisions in § 63.424(c).
63.12
Yes.
63.13
Yes.
63.14
Yes.
63.15
Yes.
63.16
Yes.
[89 FR 39370, May 8, 2024]

# Subpart S—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Pulp and Paper Industry

# Source:
63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.440
Applicability.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to the owner or operator of processes that produce pulp, paper, or paperboard; that are located at a plant site that is a major source as defined in § 63.2 of subpart A of this part; and that use the following processes and materials:
(1) Kraft, soda, sulfite, or semi-chemical pulping processes using wood; or
(2) Mechanical pulping processes using wood; or
(3) Any process using secondary or non-wood fibers.
(b) The affected source to which the existing sourceprovisions of this subpart apply is as follows:
(1) For the processes specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the affected source is the total of all HAP emission points in the pulping and bleaching systems; or
(2) For the processes specified in paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, the affected source is the total of all HAP emission points in the bleaching system.
(c) The new source provisions of this subpart apply to the total of all HAP emission points at new or existing sources as follows:
(1) Each affected source defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that commences construction or reconstruction after December 17, 1993;
(2) Each pulping system or bleaching system for the processes specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section that commences construction or reconstruction after December 17, 1993;
(3) Each additional pulping or bleaching line at the processes specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, that commences construction after December 17, 1993;
(4) Each affected source defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section that commences construction or reconstruction after March 8, 1996; or
(5) Each additional bleaching line at the processes specified in paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, that commences construction after March 8, 1996.
(d) Each existing source shall achieve compliance no later than April 16, 2001, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section.
(1) Each kraft pulping system shall achieve compliance with the pulping system provisions of § 63.443 for the equipment listed in § 63.443(a)(1)(ii) through (a)(1)(v) as expeditiously as practicable, but in no event later than April 17, 2006 and the owners and operators shall establish dates, update dates, and report the dates for the milestones specified in § 63.455(b).
(2) Each dissolving-grade bleaching system at either kraft or sulfite pulping mills shall achieve compliance with the bleach plant provisions of § 63.445 of this subpart as expeditiously as practicable, but in no event later than 3 years after the promulgation of the revised effluent limitation guidelines and standards under 40 CFR 430.14 through 430.17 and 40 CFR 430.44 through 430.47.
(3) Each bleaching system complying with the Voluntary Advanced Technology Incentives Program for Effluent Limitation Guidelines in 40 CFR 430.24, shall comply with the requirements specified in either paragraph (d)(3)(i) or (d)(3)(ii) of this section for the effluent limitation guidelines and standards in 40 CFR 430.24.
(i) Comply with the bleach plant provisions of § 63.445 of this subpart as expeditiously as practicable, but in no event later than April 16, 2001.
(ii) Comply with paragraphs (d)(3)(ii)(A), (d)(3)(ii)(B), and (d)(3)(ii)(C) of this section.
(A) The owner or operator of a bleaching system shall comply with the bleach plant provisions of § 63.445 of this subpart as expeditiously as practicable, but in no event later than April 15, 2004.
(B) The owner or operator of a bleaching system shall comply with the requirements specified in either paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(B)(
1
) or (d)(3)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section.
(
1
) Not increase the application rate of chlorine or hypochlorite in kilograms (kg) of bleaching agent per megagram of ODP, in the bleaching system above the average daily rates used over the three months prior to June 15, 1998 until the requirements of paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) of this section are met and record application rates as specified in § 63.454(c).
(
2
) Comply with enforceable effluent limitations guidelines for 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro-dibenzo-p-dioxin and adsorbable organic halides at least as stringent as the baseline BAT levels set out in 40 CFR 430.24(a)(1) as expeditiously as possible, but in no event later than April 16, 2001.
(C) Owners and operators shall establish dates, update dates, and report the dates for the milestones specified in § 63.455(b).
(e) Each new source, specified as the total of all HAP emission points for the sources specified in paragraph (c) of this section, shall achieve compliance upon start-up or June 15, 1998, whichever is later, as provided in § 63.6(b) of subpart A of this part.
(f) Each owner or operator of an affected source with affected process equipment shared by more than one type of pulping process, shall comply with the applicable requirement in this subpart that achieves the maximum degree of reduction in HAP emissions.
(g) Each owner or operator of an affected source specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section must comply with the requirements of subpart A—General Provisions of this part, as indicated in table 1 to this subpart.
[63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 71389, Dec. 28, 1998]
§ 63.441
Definitions.
All terms used in this subpart shall have the meaning given them in the CAA, in subpart A of this part, and in this section as follows:
Acid condensate storage tank
means any storage tank containing cooking acid following the sulfur dioxide gas fortification process.
Affirmative defense
means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and
objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Black liquor
means spent cooking liquor that has been separated from the pulp produced by the kraft, soda, or semi-chemical pulping process.
Bleaching
means brightening of pulp by the addition of oxidizing chemicals or reducing chemicals.
Bleaching line
means a group of bleaching stages arranged in series such that bleaching of the pulp progresses as the pulp moves from one stage to the next.
Bleaching stage
means all process equipment associated with a discrete step of chemical application and removal in the bleaching process including chemical and steam mixers, bleaching towers, washers, seal (filtrate) tanks, vacuum pumps, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed.
Bleaching system
means all process equipment after high-density pulp storage prior to the first application of oxidizing chemicals or reducing chemicals following the pulping system, up to and including the final bleaching stage.
Boiler
means any enclosed combustion device that extracts useful energy in the form of steam. A boiler is not considered a thermal oxidizer.
Chip steamer
means a vessel used for the purpose of preheating or pretreating wood chips prior to the digester, using flash steam from the digester or live steam.
Closed-vent system
means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and is composed of piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from an emission point to a control device.
Combustion device
means an individual unit of equipment, including but not limited to, a thermal oxidizer, lime kiln, recovery furnace, process heater, or boiler, used for the thermal oxidation of organic hazardous air pollutant vapors.
Decker system
means all equipment used to thicken the pulp slurry or reduce its liquid content after the pulp washing system and prior to high-density pulp storage. The decker system includes decker vents, filtrate tanks, associated vacuum pumps, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed.
Digester system
means each continuous digester or each batch digester used for the chemical treatment of wood or non-wood fibers. The digester system equipment includes associated flash tank(s), blow tank(s), chip steamer(s) not using fresh steam, blow heat recovery accumulator(s), relief gas condenser(s), prehydrolysis unit(s) preceding the pulp washing system, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed. The digester system includes any of the liquid streams or condensates associated with batch or continuous digester relief, blow, or flash steam processes.
Emission point
means any part of a stationary source that emits hazardous air pollutants regulated under this subpart, including emissions from individual process vents, stacks, open pieces of process equipment, equipment leaks, wastewater and condensate collection and treatment system units, and those emissions that could reasonably be conveyed through a stack, chimney, or duct where such emissions first reach the environment.
Evaporator system
means all equipment associated with increasing the solids content and/or concentrating spent cooking liquor from the pulp washing system including pre-evaporators, multi-effect evaporators, concentrators, and vacuum systems, as well as associated condensers, hotwells, and condensate streams, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed.
Flow indicator
means any device that indicates gas or liquid flow in an enclosed system.
HAP
means a hazardous air pollutant as defined in § 63.2 of subpart A of this part.
High volume, low concentration or HVLC collection system
means the gas collection and transport system used to convey gases from the HVLC system to a control device.
High volume, low concentration or HVLC system
means the collection of equipment including the pulp washing, knotter, screen, decker, and oxygen delignification systems, weak liquor
storage tanks, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed.
Knotter system
means equipment where knots, oversized material, or pieces of uncooked wood are removed from the pulp slurry after the digester system and prior to the pulp washing system. The knotter system equipment includes the knotter, knot drainer tanks, ancillary tanks, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed.
Kraft pulping
means a chemical pulping process that uses a mixture of sodium hydroxide and sodium sulfide as the cooking liquor.
Lime kiln
means an enclosed combustion device used to calcine lime mud, which consists primarily of calcium carbonate, into calcium oxide.
Low volume, high concentration or LVHC collection system
means the gas collection and transport system used to convey gases from the LVHC system to a control device.
Low volume, high concentration or LVHC system
means the collection of equipment including the digester, turpentine recovery, evaporator, steam stripper systems, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed.
Mechanical pulping
means a pulping process that only uses mechanical and thermo-mechanical processes to reduce wood to a fibrous mass. The mechanical pulping processes include, but are not limited to, stone groundwood, pressurized groundwood, refiner mechanical, thermal refiner mechanical, thermo-mechanical, and tandem thermo-mechanical.
Non-wood pulping
means the production of pulp from fiber sources other than trees. The non-wood fiber sources include, but are not limited to, bagasse, cereal straw, cotton, flax straw, hemp, jute, kenaf, and leaf fibers.
Oven-dried pulp or ODP
means a pulp sample at zero percent moisture content by weight. Pulp samples for applicability or compliance determinations for both the pulping and bleaching systems shall be unbleached pulp. For purposes of complying with mass emission limits in this subpart, megagram of ODP shall be measured to represent the amount of pulp entering and processed by the equipment system under the specified mass limit. For equipment that does not process pulp, megagram of ODP shall be measured to represent the amount of pulp that was processed to produce the gas and liquid streams.
Oxygen delignification system
means the equipment that uses oxygen to remove lignin from pulp after high-density stock storage and prior to the bleaching system. The oxygen delignification system equipment includes the blow tank, washers, filtrate tanks, any interstage pulp storage tanks, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed.
Primary fuel
means the fuel that provides the principal heat input to the combustion device. To be considered primary, the fuel must be able to sustain operation of the combustion device without the addition of other fuels.
Process wastewater treatment system
means a collection of equipment, a process, or specific technique that removes or destroys the HAPs in a process wastewater stream. Examples include, but are not limited to, a steam stripping unit, wastewater thermal oxidizer, or biological treatment unit.
Pulp washing system
means all equipment used to wash pulp and separate spent cooking chemicals following the digester system and prior to the bleaching system, oxygen delignification system, or paper machine system (at unbleached mills). The pulp washing system equipment includes vacuum drum washers, diffusion washers, rotary pressure washers, horizontal belt filters, intermediate stock chests, and their associated vacuum pumps, filtrate tanks, foam breakers or tanks, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed. The pulp washing system does not include deckers, screens, knotters, stock chests, or pulp storage tanks following the last stage of pulp washing.
Pulping line
means a group of equipment arranged in series such that the wood chips are digested and the resulting pulp progresses through a sequence of steps that may include knotting, refining, washing, thickening, blending, storing, oxygen delignification, and
any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed.
Pulping process condensates
means any HAP-containing liquid that results from contact of water with organic compounds in the pulping process. Examples of process condensates include digester system condensates, turpentine recovery system condensates, evaporator system condensates, LVHC system condensates, HVLC system condensates, and any other condensates from equipment serving the same function as those previously listed. Liquid streams that are intended for byproduct recovery are not considered process condensate streams.
Pulping system
means all process equipment, beginning with the digester system, and up to and including the last piece of pulp conditioning equipment prior to the bleaching system, including treatment with ozone, oxygen, or peroxide before the first application of a chemical bleaching agent intended to brighten pulp. The pulping system includes pulping process condensates and can include multiple pulping lines.
Recovery furnace
means an enclosed combustion device where concentrated spent liquor is burned to recover sodium and sulfur, produce steam, and dispose of unwanted dissolved wood components in the liquor.
Screen system
means equipment in which oversized particles are removed from the pulp slurry prior to the bleaching or papermaking system washed stock storage.
Secondary fiber pulping
means a pulping process that converts a fibrous material, that has previously undergone a manufacturing process, into pulp stock through the addition of water and mechanical energy. The mill then uses that pulp as the raw material in another manufactured product. These mills may also utilize chemical, heat, and mechanical processes to remove ink particles from the fiber stock.
Semi-chemical pulping
means a pulping process that combines both chemical and mechanical pulping processes. The semi-chemical pulping process produces intermediate yields ranging from 55 to 90 percent.
Soda pulping
means a chemical pulping process that uses sodium hydroxide as the active chemical in the cooking liquor.
Spent liquor
means process liquid generated from the separation of cooking liquor from pulp by the pulp washing system containing dissolved organic wood materials and residual cooking compounds.
Steam stripper system
means a column (including associated stripper feed tanks, condensers, or heat exchangers) used to remove compounds from wastewater or condensates using steam. The steam stripper system also contains all equipment associated with a methanol rectification process including rectifiers, condensers, decanters, storage tanks, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed.
Strong liquor storage tanks
means all storage tanks containing liquor that has been concentrated in preparation for combustion or oxidation in the recovery process.
Sulfite pulping
means a chemical pulping process that uses a mixture of sulfurous acid and bisulfite ion as the cooking liquor.
Temperature monitoring device
means a piece of equipment used to monitor temperature and having an accuracy of ±1.0 percent of the temperature being monitored expressed in degrees Celsius or ±0.5 degrees Celsius ((°C), whichever is greater.
Thermal oxidizer
means an enclosed device that destroys organic compounds by thermal oxidation.
Turpentine recovery system
means all equipment associated with recovering turpentine from digester system gases including condensers, decanters, storage tanks, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed. The turpentine recovery system includes any liquid streams associated with the turpentine recovery process such as turpentine decanter underflow. Liquid streams that are intended for byproduct recovery are not considered turpentine recovery system condensate streams.
Weak liquor storage tank
means any storage tank except washer filtrate
tanks containing spent liquor recovered from the pulping process and prior to the evaporator system.
[63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 17563, Apr. 12, 1999; 77 FR 55710, Sept. 11, 2012]
§ 63.442
[Reserved]
§ 63.443
Standards for the pulping system at kraft, soda, and semi-chemical processes.
(a) The owner or operator of each pulping system using the kraft process subject to the requirements of this subpart shall control the total HAP emissions from the following equipment systems, as specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(1) At existing affected sources, the total HAP emissions from the following equipment systems shall be controlled:
(i) Each LVHC system;
(ii) Each knotter or screen system with total HAP mass emission rates greater than or equal to the rates specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) or (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section or the combined rate specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(C) of this section.
(A) Each knotter system with emissions of 0.05 kilograms or more of total HAP per megagram of ODP (0.1 pounds per ton).
(B) Each screen system with emissions of 0.10 kilograms or more of total HAP per megagram of ODP (0.2 pounds per ton).
(C) Each knotter and screen system with emissions of 0.15 kilograms or more of total HAP per megagram of ODP (0.3 pounds per ton).
(iii) Each pulp washing system;
(iv) Each decker system that:
(A) Uses any process water other than fresh water or paper machine white water; or
(B) Uses any process water with a total HAP concentration greater than 400 parts per million by weight; and
(v) Each oxygen delignification system.
(2) At new affected sources, the total HAP emissions from the equipment systems listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (a)(1)(iii), and (a)(1)(v) of this section and the following equipment systems shall be controlled:
(i) Each knotter system;
(ii) Each screen system;
(iii) Each decker system; and
(iv) Each weak liquor storage tank.
(b) The owner or operator of each pulping system using a semi-chemical or soda process subject to the requirements of this subpart shall control the total HAP emissions from the following equipment systems as specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(1) At each existing affected source, the total HAP emissions from each LVHC system shall be controlled.
(2) At each new affected source, the total HAP emissions from each LVHC system and each pulp washing system shall be controlled.
(c) Equipment systems listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be enclosed and vented into a closed-vent system and routed to a control device that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (d) of this section. The enclosures and closed-vent system shall meet the requirements specified in § 63.450.
(d) The control device used to reduce total HAP emissions from each equipment system listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall:
(1) Reduce total HAP emissions by 98 percent or more by weight; or
(2) Reduce the total HAP concentration at the outlet of the thermal oxidizer to 20 parts per million or less by volume, corrected to 10 percent oxygen on a dry basis; or
(3) Reduce total HAP emissions using a thermal oxidizer designed and operated at a minimum temperature of 871 °C (1600 °F) and a minimum residence time of 0.75 seconds; or
(4) Reduce total HAP emissions using one of the following:
(i) A boiler, lime kiln, or recovery furnace by introducing the HAP emission stream with the primary fuel or into the flame zone; or
(ii) A boiler or recovery furnace with a heat input capacity greater than or equal to 44 megawatts (150 million British thermal units per hour) by introducing the HAP emission stream with the combustion air.
(e) Periods of excess emissions reported under § 63.455 shall not be a violation of § 63.443(c) and (d) provided
that the time of excess emissions divided by the total process operating time in a semi-annual reporting period does not exceed the following levels:
(1) One percent for control devices used to reduce the total HAP emissions from the LVHC system; and
(2) Four percent for control devices used to reduce the total HAP emissions from the HVLC system; and
(3) Four percent for control devices used to reduce the total HAP emissions from both the LVHC and HVLC systems.
[63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 17563, Apr. 12, 1999; 66 FR 80762, Dec. 22, 2000; 77 FR 55710, Sept. 11, 2012]
§ 63.444
Standards for the pulping system at sulfite processes.
(a) The owner or operator of each sulfite process subject to the requirements of this subpart shall control the total HAP emissions from the following equipment systems as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(1) At existing sulfite affected sources, the total HAP emissions from the following equipment systems shall be controlled:
(i) Each digester system vent;
(ii) Each evaporator system vent; and
(iii) Each pulp washing system.
(2) At new affected sources, the total HAP emissions from the equipment systems listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the following equipment shall be controlled:
(i) Each weak liquor storage tank;
(ii) Each strong liquor storage tank; and
(iii) Each acid condensate storage tank.
(b) Equipment listed in paragraph (a) of this section shall be enclosed and vented into a closed-vent system and routed to a control device that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section. The enclosures and closed-vent system shall meet the requirements specified in § 63.450. Emissions from equipment listed in paragraph (a) of this section that is not necessary to be reduced to meet paragraph (c) of this section is not required to be routed to a control device.
(c) The total HAP emissions from both the equipment systems listed in paragraph (a) of this section and the vents, wastewater, and condensate streams from the control device used to reduce HAP emissions, shall be controlled as follows.
(1) Each calcium-based or sodium-based sulfite pulping process shall:
(i) Emit no more than 0.44 kilograms of total HAP or methanol per megagram (0.89 pounds per ton) of ODP; or
(ii) Remove 92 percent or more by weight of the total HAP or methanol.
(2) Each magnesium-based or ammonium-based sulfite pulping process shall:
(i) Emit no more than 1.1 kilograms of total HAP or methanol per megagram (2.2 pounds per ton) of ODP; or
(ii) Remove 87 percent or more by weight of the total HAP or methanol.
§ 63.445
Standards for the bleaching system.
(a) Each bleaching system that does not use any chlorine or chlorinated compounds for bleaching is exempt from the requirements of this section. Owners or operators of the following bleaching systems shall meet all the provisions of this section:
(1) Bleaching systems that use chlorine;
(2) Bleaching systems bleaching pulp from kraft, sulfite, or soda pulping processes that use any chlorinated compounds; or
(3) Bleaching systems bleaching pulp from mechanical pulping processes using wood or from any process using secondary or non-wood fibers, that use chlorine dioxide.
(b) The equipment at each bleaching stage, of the bleaching systems listed in paragraph (a) of this section, where chlorinated compounds are introduced shall be enclosed and vented into a closed-vent system and routed to a control device that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section. The enclosures and closed-vent system shall meet the requirements specified in § 63.450. If process modifications are used to achieve compliance with the emission limits specified in paragraphs (c)(2) or (c)(3), enclosures and closed-vent systems are not required, unless appropriate.
(c) The control device used to reduce chlorinated HAP emissions (not including chloroform) from the equipment specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall:
(1) Reduce the total chlorinated HAP mass in the vent stream entering the control device by 99 percent or more by weight;
(2) Achieve a treatment device outlet concentration of 10 parts per million or less by volume of total chlorinated HAP; or
(3) Achieve a treatment device outlet mass emission rate of 0.001 kg of total chlorinated HAP mass per megagram (0.002 pounds per ton) of ODP.
(d) The owner or operator of each bleaching system subject to paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall comply with paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section to reduce chloroform air emissions to the atmosphere, except the owner or operator of each bleaching system complying with extended compliance under § 63.440(d)(3)(ii) shall comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(1) Comply with the following applicable effluent limitation guidelines and standards specified in 40 CFR part 430:
(i) Dissolving-grade kraft bleaching systems and lines, 40 CFR 430.14 through 430.17;
(ii) Paper-grade kraft and soda bleaching systems and lines, 40 CFR 430.24(a)(1) and (e), and 40 CFR 430.26 (a) and (c);
(iii) Dissolving-grade sulfite bleaching systems and lines, 40 CFR 430.44 through 430.47; or
(iv) Paper-grade sulfite bleaching systems and lines, 40 CFR 430.54(a) and (c), and 430.56(a) and (c).
(2) Use no hypochlorite or chlorine for bleaching in the bleaching system or line.
[63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 17563, Apr. 12, 1999]
§ 63.446
Standards for kraft pulping process condensates.
(a) The requirements of this section apply to owners or operators of kraft processes subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(b) The pulping process condensates from the following equipment systems shall be treated to meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section:
(1) Each digester system;
(2) Each turpentine recovery system;
(3) Each evaporator system condensate from:
(i) The vapors from each stage where weak liquor is introduced (feed stages); and
(ii) Each evaporator vacuum system for each stage where weak liquor is introduced (feed stages).
(4) Each HVLC collection system; and
(5) Each LVHC collection system.
(c) One of the following combinations of HAP-containing pulping process condensates generated, produced, or associated with the equipment systems listed in paragraph (b) of this section shall be subject to the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section:
(1) All pulping process condensates from the equipment systems specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.
(2) The combined pulping process condensates from the equipment systems specified in paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(5) of this section, plus pulping process condensate stream(s) that in total contain at least 65 percent of the total HAP mass from the pulping process condensates from equipment systems listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.
(3) The pulping process condensates from equipment systems listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section that in total contain a total HAP mass of 3.6 kilograms or more of total HAP per megagram (7.2 pounds per ton) of ODP for mills that do not perform bleaching or 5.5 kilograms or more of total HAP per megagram (11.1 pounds per ton) of ODP for mills that perform bleaching.
(d) The pulping process condensates from the equipment systems listed in paragraph (b) of this section shall be conveyed in a closed collection system that is designed and operated to meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.
(1) Each closed collection system shall meet the individual drain system requirements specified in §§ 63.960, 63.961, and 63.962 of subpart RR of this part, except for closed vent systems and control devices shall be designed
and operated in accordance with §§ 63.443(d) and 63.450, instead of in accordance with § 63.693 as specified in § 63.962 (a)(3)(ii), (b)(3)(ii)(A), and (b)(5)(iii); and
(2) If a condensate tank is used in the closed collection system, the tank shall meet the following requirements:
(i) The fixed roof and all openings (e.g., access hatches, sampling ports, gauge wells) shall be designed and operated with no detectable leaks as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million above background, and vented into a closed-vent system that meets the requirements in § 63.450 and routed to a control device that meets the requirements in § 63.443(d); and
(ii) Each opening shall be maintained in a closed, sealed position (e.g., covered by a lid that is gasketed and latched) at all times that the tank contains pulping process condensates or any HAP removed from a pulping process condensate stream except when it is necessary to use the opening for sampling, removal, or for equipment inspection, maintenance, or repair.
(e) Each pulping process condensate from the equipment systems listed in paragraph (b) of this section shall be treated according to one of the following options:
(1) Recycle the pulping process condensate to an equipment system specified in § 63.443(a) meeting the requirements specified in § 63.443(c) and (d); or
(2) Discharge the pulping process condensate below the liquid surface of a biological treatment system and treat the pulping process condensates to meet the requirements specified in paragraph (e)(3), (4), or (5) of this section, and total HAP shall be measured as specified in § 63.457(g); or
(3) Treat the pulping process condensates to reduce or destroy the total HAPs by at least 92 percent or more by weight; or
(4) At mills that do not perform bleaching, treat the pulping process condensates to remove 3.3 kilograms or more of total HAP per megagram (6.6 pounds per ton) of ODP, or achieve a total HAP concentration of 210 parts per million or less by weight at the outlet of the control device; or
(5) At mills that perform bleaching, treat the pulping process condensates to remove 5.1 kilograms or more of total HAP per megagram (10.2 pounds per ton) of ODP, or achieve a total HAP concentration of 330 parts per million or less by weight at the outlet of the control device.
(f) Each HAP removed from a pulping process condensate stream during treatment and handling under paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section, except for those treated according to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, shall be controlled as specified in § 63.443(c) and (d).
(g) For each control device (e.g., steam stripper system or other equipment serving the same function) used to treat pulping process condensates to comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(3) through (5) of this section, periods of excess emissions reported under § 63.455 shall not be a violation of paragraphs (d), (e)(3) through (5), and (f) of this section provided that the time of excess emissions divided by the total process operating time in a semi-annual reporting period does not exceed 10 percent. The 10 percent excess emissions allowance does not apply to treatment of pulping process condensates according to paragraph (e)(2) of this section (e.g., the biological wastewater treatment system used to treat multiple (primarily non-condensate) wastewater streams to comply with the Clean Water Act).
(h) Each owner or operator of a new or existing affected source subject to the requirements of this section shall evaluate all new or modified pulping process condensates or changes in the annual bleached or non-bleached ODP used to comply with paragraph (i) of this section, to determine if they meet the applicable requirements of this section.
(i) For the purposes of meeting the requirements in paragraph (c)(2) or (3) or paragraph (e)(4) or (5) of this section at mills producing both bleached and unbleached pulp products, owners and operators may meet a prorated mass standard that is calculated by prorating the applicable mass standards (kilograms of total HAP per megagram of ODP) for bleached and unbleached mills specified in paragraph (c)(2) or (3)
or paragraph (e)(4) or (5) of this section by the ratio of annual megagrams of bleached and unbleached ODP.
[63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998; 63 FR 42239, Aug. 7, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 49459, Sept. 16, 1998; 64 FR 17563, Apr. 12, 1999; 65 FR 80762, Dec. 22, 2000; 77 FR 55711, Sept. 11, 2012]
§ 63.447
Clean condensate alternative.
As an alternative to the requirements specified in § 63.443(a)(1)(ii) through (a)(1)(v) for the control of HAP emissions from pulping systems using the kraft process, an owner or operator must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator, by meeting all the requirements below, that the total HAP emissions reductions achieved by this clean condensate alternative technology are equal to or greater than the total HAP emission reductions that would have been achieved by compliance with § 63.443(a)(1)(ii) through (a)(1)(v).
(a) For the purposes of this section only the following additional definitions apply.
(1)
Clean condensate alternative affected source
means the total of all HAP emission points in the pulping, bleaching, causticizing, and papermaking systems (exclusive of HAP emissions attributable to additives to paper machines and HAP emission points in the LVHC system).
(2)
Causticizing system
means all equipment associated with converting sodium carbonate into active sodium hydroxide. The equipment includes smelt dissolving tanks, lime mud washers and storage tanks, white and mud liquor clarifiers and storage tanks, slakers, slaker grit washers, lime kilns, green liquor clarifiers and storage tanks, and dreg washers ending with the white liquor storage tanks prior to the digester system, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed.
(3)
Papermaking system
means all equipment used to convert pulp into paper, paperboard, or market pulp, including the stock storage and preparation systems, the paper or paperboard machines, and the paper machine white water system, broke recovery systems, and the systems involved in calendering, drying, on-machine coating, slitting, winding, and cutting.
(b) Each owner or operator shall install and operate a clean condensate alternative technology with a continuous monitoring system to reduce total HAP emissions by treating and reducing HAP concentrations in the pulping process water used within the clean condensate alternative affected source.
(c) Each owner or operator shall calculate HAP emissions on a kilogram per megagram of ODP basis and measure HAP emissions according to the appropriate procedures contained in § 63.457.
(d) Each owner or operator shall determine the baseline HAP emissions for each equipment system and the total of all equipment systems in the clean condensate alternative affected source based on the following:
(1) Process and air pollution control equipment installed and operating on December 17, 1993, and
(2) Compliance with the following requirements that affect the level of HAP emissions from the clean condensate alternative affected source:
(i) The pulping process condensates requirements in § 63.446;
(ii) The applicable effluent limitation guidelines and standards in 40 CFR part 430, subparts A, B, D, and E; and
(iii) All other applicable requirements of local, State, or Federal agencies or statutes.
(e) Each owner or operator shall determine the following HAP emission reductions from the baseline HAP emissions determined in paragraph (d) of this section for each equipment system and the total of all equipment systems in the clean condensate alternative affected source:
(1) The HAP emission reduction occurring by complying with the requirements of § 63.443(a)(1)(ii) through (a)(1)(v); and
(2) The HAP emissions reduction occurring by complying with the clean condensate alternative technology.
(f) For the purposes of all requirements in this section, each owner or operator may use as an alternative, individual equipment systems (instead of total of all equipment systems) within the clean condensate alternative affected source to determine emissions and reductions to demonstrate equal or greater than the reductions that would
have been achieved by compliance with § 63.443(a)(1)(ii) through (a)(1)(v).
(g) The initial and updates to the control strategy report specified in § 63.455(b) shall include to the extent possible the following information:
(1) A detailed description of:
(i) The equipment systems and emission points that comprise the clean condensate alternative affected source;
(ii) The air pollution control technologies that would be used to meet the requirements of § 63.443(a)(1)(ii) through (a)(1)(v); and
(iii) The clean condensate alternative technology to be used.
(2) Estimates and basis for the estimates of total HAP emissions and emission reductions to fulfill the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section.
(h) Each owner or operator shall report to the Administrator by the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.440(d) or (e) the rationale, calculations, test procedures, and data documentation used to demonstrate compliance with all the requirements of this section.
[63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998; 63 FR 42239, Aug. 7, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 17563, Apr. 12, 1999]
§§ 63.448-63.449
[Reserved]
§ 63.450
Standards for enclosures and closed-vent systems.
(a) Each enclosure and closed-vent system specified in §§ 63.443(c), 63.444(b), and 63.445(b) for capturing and transporting vent streams that contain HAP shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(b) Each enclosure shall maintain negative pressure at each enclosure or hood opening as demonstrated by the procedures specified in § 63.457(e). Each enclosure or hood opening closed during the initial performance test specified in § 63.457(a) shall be maintained in the same closed and sealed position as during the performance test at all times except when necessary to use the opening for sampling, inspection, maintenance, or repairs.
(c) Each component of the closed-vent system used to comply with §§ 63.443(c), 63.444(b), and 63.445(b) that is operated at positive pressure and located prior to a control device shall be designed for and operated with no detectable leaks as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million by volume above background, as measured by the procedures specified in § 63.457(d).
(d) Each bypass line in the closed-vent system that could divert vent streams containing HAP to the atmosphere without meeting the emission limitations in §§ 63.443, 63.444, or 63.445 shall comply with either of the following requirements:
(1) On each bypass line, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow indicator that is capable of taking periodic readings as frequently as specified in § 63.454(e). The flow indicator shall be installed in the bypass line in such a way as to indicate flow in the bypass line; or
(2) For bypass line valves that are not computer controlled, the owner or operator shall maintain the bypass line valve in the closed position with a car seal or a seal placed on the valve or closure mechanism in such a way that valve or closure mechanism cannot be opened without breaking the seal.
[63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 17563, Apr. 12, 1999; 68 FR 37348, June 23, 2003]
§§ 63.451-63.452
[Reserved]
§ 63.453
Monitoring requirements.
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the standards specified in §§ 63.443(c) and (d), 63.444(b) and (c), 63.445(b) and (c), 63.446(c), (d), and (e), 63.447(b) or § 63.450(d), shall install, calibrate, certify, operate, and maintain according to the manufacturer's specifications, a continuous monitoring system (CMS, as defined in § 63.2 of this part) as specified in paragraphs (b) through (m) of this section, except as allowed in paragraph (m) of this section. The CMS shall include a continuous recorder.
(b) A CMS shall be operated to measure the temperature in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox and before any substantial heat exchange occurs for each thermal oxidizer used to comply
with the requirements of § 63.443(d)(1) through (d)(3). Owners and operators complying with the HAP concentration requirements in § 63.443(d)(2) may install a CMS to monitor the thermal oxidizer outlet total HAP or methanol concentration, as an alternative to monitoring thermal oxidizer operating temperature.
(c) A CMS shall be operated to measure the following parameters for each gas scrubber used to comply with the bleaching system requirements of § 63.445(c) or the sulfite pulping system requirements of § 63.444(c).
(1) The pH or the oxidation/reduction potential of the gas scrubber effluent;
(2) The gas scrubber vent gas inlet flow rate; and
(3) The gas scrubber liquid influent flow rate.
(d) As an option to the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, a CMS shall be operated to measure the chlorine outlet concentration of each gas scrubber used to comply with the bleaching system outlet concentration requirement specified in § 63.445(c)(2).
(e) The owner or operator of a bleaching system complying with 40 CFR 430.24, shall monitor the chlorine and hypochlorite application rates, in kg of bleaching agent per megagram of ODP, of the bleaching system during the extended compliance period specified in § 63.440(d)(3).
(f) A CMS shall be operated to measure the gas scrubber parameters specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section or those site specific parameters determined according to the procedures specified in paragraph (n) of this section to comply with the sulfite pulping system requirements specified in § 63.444(c).
(g) A CMS shall be operated to measure the following parameters for each steam stripper used to comply with the treatment requirements in § 63.446(e) (3), (4), or (5):
(1) The process wastewater feed rate;
(2) The steam feed rate; and
(3) The process wastewater column feed temperature.
(h) As an option to the requirements specified in paragraph (g) of this section, a CMS shall be operated to measure the methanol outlet concentration to comply with the steam stripper outlet concentration requirement specified in § 63.446 (e)(4) or (e)(5).
(i) A CMS shall be operated to measure the appropriate parameters determined according to the procedures specified in paragraph (n) of this section to comply with the condensate applicability requirements specified in § 63.446(c).
(j) Each owner or operator using an open biological treatment system to comply with § 63.446(e)(2) shall perform the daily monitoring procedures specified in either paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section and shall conduct a performance test each quarter using the procedures specified in paragraph (j)(3) of this section.
(1) Comply with the monitoring and sampling requirements specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) On a daily basis, monitor the following parameters for each open biological treatment unit:
(A) Composite daily sample of outlet soluble BOD
5
concentration to monitor for maximum daily and maximum monthly average;
(B) Mixed liquor volatile suspended solids;
(C) Horsepower of aerator unit(s);
(D) Inlet liquid flow; and
(E) Liquid temperature.
(ii) If the Inlet and Outlet Concentration Measurement Procedure (Procedure 3) in appendix C of this part is used to determine the fraction of HAP compounds degraded in the biological treatment system as specified in § 63.457(l), conduct the sampling and archival requirements specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) Obtain daily inlet and outlet liquid grab samples from each biological treatment unit to have HAP data available to perform quarterly performance tests specified in paragraph (j)(3) of this section and the compliance tests specified in paragraph (p) of this section.
(B) Store the samples as specified in § 63.457(n) until after the results of the soluble BOD
5
test required in paragraph (j)(1)(i)(A) of this section are obtained. The storage requirement is
needed since the soluble BOD
5
test requires 5 days or more to obtain results. If the results of the soluble BOD
5
test are outside of the range established during the initial performance test, then the archive sample shall be used to perform the mass removal or percent reduction determinations.
(2) As an alternative to the monitoring requirements of paragraph (j)(1) of this section, conduct daily monitoring of the site-specific parameters established according to the procedures specified in paragraph (n) of this section.
(3) Conduct a performance test as specified in § 63.457(l) within 45 days after the beginning of each quarter and meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.446(e)(2).
(i) The performance test conducted in the first quarter (annually) shall be performed for total HAP as specified in § 63.457(g) and meet the percent reduction or mass removal emission limit specified in § 63.446(e)(2).
(ii) The remaining quarterly performance tests shall be performed as specified in paragraph (j)(3)(i) of this section except owners or operators may use the applicable methanol procedure in § 63.457(l)(1) or (2) and the value of r determined during the first quarter test instead of measuring the additional HAP to determine a new value of r.
(k) Each enclosure and closed-vent system used to comply with § 63.450(a) shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(6) of this section.
(1) For each enclosure opening, a visual inspection of the closure mechanism specified in § 63.450(b) shall be performed at least once every 30 days to ensure the opening is maintained in the closed position and sealed.
(2) Each closed-vent system required by § 63.450(a) shall be visually inspected every 30 days and at other times as requested by the Administrator. The visual inspection shall include inspection of ductwork, piping, enclosures, and connections to covers for visible evidence of defects.
(3) For positive pressure closed-vent systems or portions of closed-vent systems, demonstrate no detectable leaks as specified in § 63.450(c) measured initially and annually by the procedures in § 63.457(d).
(4) Demonstrate initially and annually that each enclosure opening is maintained at negative pressure as specified in § 63.457(e).
(5) The valve or closure mechanism specified in § 63.450(d)(2) shall be inspected at least once every 30 days to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and the emission point gas stream is not diverted through the bypass line.
(6) If an inspection required by paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(5) of this section identifies visible defects in ductwork, piping, enclosures or connections to covers required by § 63.450, or if an instrument reading of 500 parts per million by volume or greater above background is measured, or if enclosure openings are not maintained at negative pressure, then the following corrective actions shall be taken as soon as practicable.
(i) A first effort to repair or correct the closed-vent system shall be made as soon as practicable but no later than 5 calendar days after the problem is identified.
(ii) The repair or corrective action shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the problem is identified. Delay of repair or corrective action is allowed if the repair or corrective action is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown or if the owner or operator determines that the emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be completed by the end of the next process unit shutdown.
(l) Each pulping process condensate closed collection system used to comply with § 63.446(d) shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(3) of this section.
(1) Each pulping process condensate closed collection system shall be visually inspected every 30 days and shall comply with the inspection and monitoring requirements specified in § 63.964 of subpart RR of this part, except:
(i) Owners or operators shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.454 instead of the requirements
specified in § 63.964(a)(1)(vi) and (b)(3) of subpart RR of this part.
(ii) Owners or operators shall comply with the inspection and monitoring requirements for closed-vent systems and control devices specified in paragraphs (a) and (k) of this section instead of the requirements specified in § 63.964(a)(2) of subpart RR of this part.
(2) Each condensate tank used in the closed collection system shall be operated with no detectable leaks as specified in § 63.446(d)(2)(i) measured initially and annually by the procedures specified in § 63.457(d).
(3) If an inspection required by this section identifies visible defects in the closed collection system, or if an instrument reading of 500 parts per million or greater above background is measured, then corrective actions specified in § 63.964(b) of subpart RR of this part shall be taken.
(m) Each owner or operator using a control device, technique or an alternative parameter other than those specified in paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section shall install a CMS and establish appropriate operating parameters to be monitored that demonstrate, to the Administrator's satisfaction, continuous compliance with the applicable control requirements.
(n) To establish or reestablish the value for each operating parameter required to be monitored under paragraphs (b) through (j), (l), and (m) of this section or to establish appropriate parameters for paragraphs (f), (i), (j)(2), and (m) of this section, each owner or operator shall use the following procedures:
(1) During the initial performance test required in § 63.457(a) or any subsequent performance test, continuously record the operating parameter;
(2) Determinations shall be based on the control performance and parameter data monitored during the performance test, supplemented if necessary by engineering assessments and the manufacturer's recommendations;
(3) The owner or operator shall provide for the Administrator's approval the rationale for selecting the monitoring parameters necessary to comply with paragraphs (f), (i), and (m) of this section; and
(4) Provide for the Administrator's approval the rationale for the selected operating parameter value, and monitoring frequency, and averaging time. Include all data and calculations used to develop the value and a description of why the value, monitoring frequency, and averaging time demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission standard.
(o) Each owner or operator of a control device subject to the monitoring provisions of this section shall operate the control device in a manner consistent with the minimum or maximum (as appropriate) operating parameter value or procedure required to be monitored under paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section and established under this subpart. Except as provided in paragraph (p) of this section, § 63.443(e), or § 63.446(g), operation of the control device below minimum operating parameter values or above maximum operating parameter values established under this subpart or failure to perform procedures required by this subpart shall constitute a violation of the applicable emission standard of this subpart and be reported as a period of excess emissions.
(p) The procedures of this paragraph apply to each owner or operator of an open biological treatment system complying with paragraph (j) of this section whenever a monitoring parameter excursion occurs, and the owner or operator chooses to conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit. A monitoring parameter excursion occurs whenever the monitoring parameters specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section or any of the monitoring parameters specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section are below minimum operating parameter values or above maximum operating parameter values established in paragraph (n) of this section.
(1) As soon as practical after the beginning of the monitoring parameter excursion, the following requirements shall be met:
(i) Before the steps in paragraph (p)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section are performed, all sampling and measurements necessary to meet the requirements in paragraph (p)(2) of this section shall be conducted.
(ii) Steps shall be taken to repair or adjust the operation of the process to end the parameter excursion period.
(iii) Steps shall be taken to minimize total HAP emissions to the atmosphere during the parameter excursion period.
(2) A parameter excursion is not a violation of the applicable emission standard if the results of the performance test conducted using the procedures in this paragraph demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.446(e)(2).
(i) Conduct a performance test as specified in § 63.457 using the monitoring data specified in paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section that coincides with the time of the parameter excursion. No maintenance or changes shall be made to the open biological treatment system after the beginning of a parameter excursion that would influence the results of the performance test.
(ii) If the results of the performance test specified in paragraph (p)(2)(i) of this section demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.446(e)(2), then the parameter excursion is not a violation of the applicable emission limit.
(iii) If the results of the performance test specified in paragraph (p)(2)(i) of this section do not demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.446(e)(2) because the total HAP mass entering the open biological treatment system is below the level needed to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.446(e)(2), then the owner or operator shall perform the following comparisons:
(A) If the value of f
bio
(MeOH) determined during the performance test specified in paragraph (p)(2)(i) of this section is within the range of values established during the initial and subsequent performance tests approved by the Administrator, then the parameter excursion is not a violation of the applicable standard.
(B) If the value of f
bio
(MeOH) determined during the performance test specified in paragraph (p)(2)(i) of this section is not within the range of values established during the initial and subsequent performance tests approved by the Administrator, then the parameter excursion is a violation of the applicable standard.
(iv) The results of the performance test specified in paragraph (p)(2)(i) of this section shall be recorded as specified in § 63.454(f).
(3) If an owner or operator determines that performing the required procedures under paragraph (p)(2) of this section for a nonthoroughly mixed open biological system would expose a worker to dangerous, hazardous, or otherwise unsafe conditions, all of the following procedures shall be performed:
(i) Calculate the mass removal or percent reduction value using the procedures specified in § 63.457(l) except the value for f
bio
(MeOH) shall be determined using the procedures in appendix E to this part.
(ii) Repeat the procedures in paragraph (p)(3)(i) of this section for every day until the unsafe conditions have passed.
(iii) A parameter excursion is a violation of the standard if the percent reduction or mass removal determined in paragraph (p)(3)(i) of this section is less than the percent reduction or mass removal standards specified in § 63.446(e)(2), as appropriate, unless the value of f
bio
(MeOH) determined using the procedures in appendix E of this section, as specified in paragraph (p)(3)(i), is within the range of f
bio
(MeOH) values established during the initial and subsequent performance tests previously approved by the Administrator.
(iv) The determination that there is a condition that exposes a worker to dangerous, hazardous, or otherwise unsafe conditions shall be documented according to requirements in § 63.454(e) and reporting in § 63.455(f).
(v) The requirements of paragraphs (p)(1) and (2) of this section shall be performed and met as soon as practical but no later than 24 hours after the conditions have passed that exposed a
worker to dangerous, hazardous, or otherwise unsafe conditions.
(q) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
[63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 17563, Apr. 12, 1999; 65 FR 80762, Dec. 22, 2000; 77 FR 55711, Sept. 11, 2012]
§ 63.454
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of each affected source subject to the requirements of this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.10, as shown in Table 1 of this subpart, and the requirements specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section for the monitoring parameters specified in § 63.453.
(b) For each applicable enclosure opening, closed-vent system, and closed collection system, the owner or operator shall prepare and maintain a site-specific inspection plan including a drawing or schematic of the components of applicable affected equipment and shall record the following information for each inspection:
(1) Date of inspection;
(2) The equipment type and identification;
(3) Results of negative pressure tests for enclosures;
(4) Results of leak detection tests;
(5) The nature of the defect or leak and the method of detection (i.e., visual inspection or instrument detection);
(6) The date the defect or leak was detected and the date of each attempt to repair the defect or leak;
(7) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the defect or leak;
(8) The reason for the delay if the defect or leak is not repaired within 15 days after discovery;
(9) The expected date of successful repair of the defect or leak if the repair is not completed within 15 days;
(10) The date of successful repair of the defect or leak;
(11) The position and duration of opening of bypass line valves and the condition of any valve seals; and
(12) The duration of the use of bypass valves on computer controlled valves.
(c) The owner or operator of a bleaching system complying with § 63.440(d)(3)(ii)(B) shall record the daily average chlorine and hypochlorite application rates, in kg of bleaching agent per megagram of ODP, of the bleaching system until the requirements specified in § 63.440(d)(3)(ii)(A) are met.
(d) The owner or operator shall record the CMS parameters specified in § 63.453 and meet the requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section for any new affected process equipment or pulping process condensate stream that becomes subject to the standards in this subpart due to a process change or modification.
(e) The owner or operator shall set the flow indicator on each bypass line specified in § 63.450(d)(1) to provide a record of the presence of gas stream flow in the bypass line at least once every 15 minutes.
(f) The owner or operator of an open biological treatment system complying with § 63.453(p) shall prepare a written record specifying the results of the performance test specified in § 63.453(p)(2).
(g)
Recordkeeping of malfunctions.
The owner or operator must maintain the following records of malfunctions:
(1) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (i.e., process equipment) or the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.
(2) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.453(q), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment
to its normal or usual manner of operation.
[63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 80763, Dec. 22, 2000; 68 FR 37348, June 23, 2003; 77 FR 55711, Sept. 11, 2012]
§ 63.455
Reporting requirements.
(a) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall comply with the reporting requirements of subpart A of this part as specified in Table 1 to subpart S of part 63 and all the following requirements in this section. The initial notification report specified under § 63.9(b)(2) of subpart A of this part shall be submitted by April 15, 1999, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.
(b) Each owner or operator of a kraft pulping system specified in § 63.440(d)(1) or a bleaching system specified in § 63.440(d)(3)(ii) shall submit, with the initial notification report specified under § 63.9(b)(2) of subpart A of this part and paragraph (a) of this section and update every two years thereafter, a non-binding control strategy report containing, at a minimum, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section in addition to the information required in § 63.9(b)(2) of subpart A of this part.
(1) A description of the emission controls or process modifications selected for compliance with the control requirements in this standard.
(2) A compliance schedule, including the dates by which each step toward compliance will be reached for each emission point or sets of emission points. At a minimum, the list of dates shall include:
(i) The date by which the major study(s) for determining the compliance strategy will be completed;
(ii) The date by which contracts for emission controls or process modifications will be awarded, or the date by which orders will be issued for the purchase of major components to accomplish emission controls or process changes;
(iii) The date by which on-site construction, installation of emission control equipment, or a process change is to be initiated;
(iv) The date by which on-site construction, installation of emissions control equipment, or a process change is to be completed;
(v) The date by which final compliance is to be achieved;
(vi) For compliance with paragraph § 63.440(d)(3)(ii), the tentative dates by which compliance with effluent limitation guidelines and standards intermediate pollutant load effluent reductions and as available, all the dates for the best available technology's milestones reported in the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System authorized under section 402 of the Clean Water Act and for the best professional milestones in the Voluntary Advanced Technology Incentives Program under 40 CFR 430.24 (b)(2); and
(vii) The date by which the final compliance tests will be performed.
(3) Until compliance is achieved, revisions or updates shall be made to the control strategy report required by paragraph (b) of this section indicating the progress made towards completing the installation of the emission controls or process modifications during the 2-year period.
(c) The owner or operator of each bleaching system complying with § 63.440(d)(3)(ii)(B) shall certify in the report specified under § 63.10(e)(3) of subpart A of this part that the daily application rates of chlorine and hypochlorite for that bleaching system have not increased as specified in § 63.440(d)(3)(ii)(B) until the requirements of § 63.440(d)(3)(ii)(A) are met.
(d) The owner or operator shall meet the requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section upon startup of any new affected process equipment or pulping process condensate stream that becomes subject to the standards of this subpart due to a process change or modification.
(e) If the owner or operator uses the results of the performance test required in § 63.453(p)(2) to revise the approved values or ranges of the monitoring parameters specified in § 63.453(j)(1) or (2), the owner or operator shall submit an initial notification of the subsequent performance test to the Administrator as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 days, before the performance test required in
§ 63.453(p)(2) is scheduled to be conducted. The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator as soon as practicable, but no later than 24 hours, before the performance test is scheduled to be conducted to confirm the exact date and time of the performance test.
(f) To comply with the open biological treatment system monitoring provisions of § 63.453(p)(3), the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator as soon as practicable of the onset of the dangerous, hazardous, or otherwise unsafe conditions that did not allow a compliance determination to be conducted using the sampling and test procedures in § 63.457(l). The notification shall occur no later than 24 hours after the onset of the dangerous, hazardous, or otherwise unsafe conditions and shall include the specific reason(s) that the sampling and test procedures in § 63.457(l) could not be performed.
(g)
Malfunction reporting requirements.
If a malfunction occurred during the reporting period, the report must include the number, duration and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.453(q), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.
(h) The owner or operator must submit performance test reports as specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator of an affected source shall report the results of the performance test before the close of business on the 60th day following the completion of the performance test, unless approved otherwise in writing by the Administrator. A performance test is “completed” when field sample collection is terminated. Unless otherwise approved by the Administrator in writing, results of a performance test shall include the analysis of samples, determination of emissions and raw data. A complete test report must include the purpose of the test; a brief process description; a complete unit description, including a description of feed streams and control devices; sampling site description; pollutants measured; description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures; quality assurance procedures; record of operating conditions, including operating parameters for which limits are being set, during the test; record of preparation of standards; record of calibrations; raw data sheets for field sampling; raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses; chain-of-custody documentation; explanation of laboratory data qualifiers; example calculations of all applicable stack gas parameters, emission rates, percent reduction rates, and analytical results, as applicable; and any other information required by the test method and the Administrator.
(2) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (defined in § 63.2) as required by this subpart, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance tests, including any associated fuel analyses, required by this subpart to the EPA's WebFIRE database by using the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
http://www.epa.gov/cdx
). Performance test data must be submitted in the file format generated through use of the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (see
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html
). Only data collected using test methods on the ERT Web site are subject to this requirement for submitting reports electronically to WebFIRE. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI) must submit a complete ERT file including information claimed to be CBI on a compact disk, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. At
the discretion of the delegated authority, the owner or operator must also submit these reports, including the CBI, to the delegated authority in the format specified by the delegated authority. For any performance test conducted using test methods that are not listed on the ERT Web site, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.
(3) Within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation test as defined in § 63.2, the owner or operator must submit relative accuracy test audit (RATA) data to the EPA's CDX by using CEDRI in accordance with paragraph (2) of this section. Only RATA pollutants that can be documented with the ERT (as listed on the ERT Web site) are subject to this requirement. For any performance evaluations with no corresponding RATA pollutants listed on the ERT Web site, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.
(4) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (h)(2) and (3) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. The Administrator or the delegated authority may request a report in any form suitable for the specific case (e.g., by commonly used electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy). The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraphs (h)(2) and (3) of this section in paper format
[63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 80763, Dec. 22, 2000; 77 FR 55711, Sept. 11, 2012; 85 FR 73890, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.456
Affirmative defense for violation of emission standards during malfunction.
In response to an action to enforce the standards set forth in §§ 63.443(c) and (d), 63.444(b) and (c), 63.445(b) and (c), 63.446(c), (d), and (e), 63.447(b) or § 63.450(d), the owner or operator may assert an affirmative defense to a claim for civil penalties for violations of such standards that are caused by malfunction, as defined at 40 CFR 63.2. Appropriate penalties may be assessed, however, if the owner or operator fails to meet the burden of proving all of the requirements in the affirmative defense. The affirmative defense shall not be available for claims for injunctive relief.
(a) To establish the affirmative defense in any action to enforce such a standard, the owner or operator must timely meet the reporting requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, and must prove by a preponderance of evidence that:
(1) The violation:
(i) Was caused by a sudden, infrequent, and unavoidable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner, and
(ii) Could not have been prevented through careful planning, proper design or better operation and maintenance practices; and
(iii) Did not stem from any activity or event that could have been foreseen and avoided, or planned for; and
(iv) Was not part of a recurring pattern indicative of inadequate design, operation, or maintenance; and
(2) Repairs were made as expeditiously as possible when a violation occurred. Off-shift and overtime labor were used, to the extent practicable to make these repairs; and
(3) The frequency, amount and duration of the violation (including any bypass) were minimized to the maximum extent practicable; and
(4) If the violation resulted from a bypass of control equipment or a process, then the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage; and
(5) All possible steps were taken to minimize the impact of the violation on ambient air quality, the environment and human health; and
(6) All emissions monitoring and control systems were kept in operation if at all possible, consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices; and
(7) All of the actions in response to the violation were documented by properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs; and
(8) At all times, the affected source was operated in a manner consistent
with good practices for minimizing emissions; and
(9) A written root cause analysis has been prepared, the purpose of which is to determine, correct, and eliminate the primary causes of the malfunction and the violation resulting from the malfunction event at issue. The analysis shall also specify, using best monitoring methods and engineering judgment, the amount of any emissions that were the result of the malfunction.
(b)
Report.
The owner or operator seeking to assert an affirmative defense shall submit a written report to the Administrator with all necessary supporting documentation, that it has met the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. This affirmative defense report shall be included in the first periodic compliance, deviation report or excess emission report otherwise required after the initial occurrence of the violation of the relevant standard (which may be the end of any applicable averaging period). If such compliance, deviation report or excess emission report is due less than 45 days after the initial occurrence of the violation, the affirmative defense report may be included in the second compliance, deviation report or excess emission report due after the initial occurrence of the violation of the relevant standard.
[77 FR 55712, Sept. 11, 2012]
§ 63.457
Test methods and procedures.
(a)
Performance tests.
Initial and repeat performance tests are required for the emissions sources specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, except for emission sources controlled by a combustion device that is designed and operated as specified in § 63.443(d)(3) or (4).
(1) Conduct an initial performance test for all emission sources subject to the limitations in §§ 63.443, 63.444, 63.445, 63.446, and 63.447.
(2) Conduct repeat performance tests at five-year intervals for all emission sources subject to the limitations in §§ 63.443, 63.444, and 63.445. The first of the 5-year repeat tests must be conducted by September 7, 2015, and thereafter within 60 months from the date of the previous performance test. Five-year repeat testing is not required for the following:
(i) Knotter or screen systems with HAP emission rates below the criteria specified in § 63.443(a)(1)(ii).
(ii) Decker systems using fresh water or paper machine white water, or decker systems using process water with a total HAP concentration less than 400 parts per million by weight as specified in § 63.443(a)(1)(iv).
(b)
Vent sampling port locations and gas stream properties.
For purposes of selecting vent sampling port locations and determining vent gas stream properties, required in §§ 63.443, 63.444, 63.445, and 63.447, each owner or operator shall comply with the applicable procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section.
(1) Method 1 or 1A of part 60, appendix A-1, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling site as follows:
(i) To sample for vent gas concentrations and volumetric flow rates, the sampling site shall be located prior to dilution of the vent gas stream and prior to release to the atmosphere;
(ii) For determining compliance with percent reduction requirements, sampling sites shall be located prior to the inlet of the control device and at the outlet of the control device; measurements shall be performed simultaneously at the two sampling sites; and
(iii) For determining compliance with concentration limits or mass emission rate limits, the sampling site shall be located at the outlet of the control device.
(2) No traverse site selection method is needed for vents smaller than 0.10 meter (4.0 inches) in diameter.
(3) The vent gas volumetric flow rate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of part 60, appendix A-1, as appropriate.
(4) The moisture content of the vent gas shall be measured using Method 4 of part 60, appendix A-3.
(5) To determine vent gas concentrations, the owner or operator shall conduct a minimum of three test runs that are representative of normal conditions and average the resulting pollutant concentrations using the following procedures.
(i) Method 308 in Appendix A of this part; Method 320 in Appendix A of this part; Method 18 in appendix A-6 of part 60; ASTM D6420-99 (Reapproved 2004) (incorporated by reference in § 63.14(b)(28) of subpart A of this part); or ASTM D6348-03 (incorporated by reference in § 63.14(b)(54) of subpart A of this part) shall be used to determine the methanol concentration. If ASTM D6348-03 is used, the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) though (b)(5)(i)(B) must be met.
(A) The test plan preparation and implementation in the Annexes to ASTM D6348-03, sections A1 through A8 are required.
(B) In ASTM D6348-03 Annex A5 (Analyte Spiking Technique), the percent (%) R must be determined for each target analyte (Equation A5.5 of ASTM D6348-03). In order for the test data to be acceptable for a compound, %R must be between 70 and 130 percent. If the %R value does not meet this criterion for a target compound, the test data is not acceptable for that compound and the test must be repeated for that analyte following adjustment of the sampling or analytical procedure before the retest. The %R value for each compound must be reported in the test report, and all field measurements must be corrected with the calculated %R value for that compound using the following equation: Reported Result = Measured Concentration in the Stack × 100)/%R.
(ii) Except for the modifications specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(ii)(A) through (b)(5)(ii)(K) of this section, Method 26A of part 60, appendix A-8 shall be used to determine chlorine concentration in the vent stream.
(A)
Probe/sampling line.
A separate probe is not required. The sampling line shall be an appropriate length of 0.64 cm (0.25 in) OD Teflon ® tubing. The sample inlet end of the sampling line shall be inserted into the stack in such a way as to not entrain liquid condensation from the vent gases. The other end shall be connected to the impingers. The length of the tubing may vary from one sampling site to another, but shall be as short as possible in each situation. If sampling is conducted in sunlight, opaque tubing shall be used. Alternatively, if transparent tubing is used, it shall be covered with opaque tape.
(B)
Impinger train.
Three 30 milliliter (ml) capacity midget impingers shall be connected in series to the sampling line. The impingers shall have regular tapered stems. Silica gel shall be placed in the third impinger as a desiccant. All impinger train connectors shall be glass and/or Teflon ®.
(C)
Critical orifice.
The critical orifice shall have a flow rate of 200 to 250 ml/min and shall be followed by a vacuum pump capable of providing a vacuum of 640 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). A 45 millimeter diameter in-line Teflon 0.8 micrometer filter shall follow the impingers to protect the critical orifice and vacuum pump.
(D) The following are necessary for the analysis apparatus:
(
1
) Wash bottle filled with deionized water;
(
2
) 25 or 50 ml graduated burette and stand;
(
3
) Magnetic stirring apparatus and stir bar;
(
4
) Calibrated pH Meter;
(
5
) 150-250 ml beaker or flask; and
(
6
) A 5 ml pipette.
(E) The procedures listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(ii)(E)(
1
) through (b)(5)(ii)(E)(
7
) of this section shall be used to prepare the reagents.
(
1
) To prepare the 1 molarity (M) potassium dihydrogen phosphate solution, dissolve 13.61 grams (g) of potassium dihydrogen phosphate in water and dilute to 100 ml.
(
2
) To prepare the 1 M sodium hydroxide solution (NaOH), dissolve 4.0 g of sodium hydroxide in water and dilute to 100 ml.
(
3
) To prepare the buffered 2 percent potassium iodide solution, dissolve 20 g of potassium iodide in 900 ml water. Add 50 ml of the 1 M potassium dihydrogen phosphate solution and 30 ml of the 1 M sodium hydroxide solution. While stirring solution, measure the pH of solution electrometrically and add the 1 M sodium hydroxide solution to bring pH to between 6.95 and 7.05.
(
4
) To prepare the 0.1 normality (N) sodium thiosulfate solution, dissolve 25 g of sodium thiosulfate, pentahydrate, in 800 ml of freshly boiled and cooled distilled water in a 1-liter volumetric flask. Dilute to volume. To prepare the
0.01 N sodium thiosulfate solution, add 10.0 ml standardized 0.1 N sodium thiosulfate solution to a 100 ml volumetric flask, and dilute to volume with water.
(
5
) To standardize the 0.1 N sodium thiosulfate solution, dissolve 3.249 g of anhydrous potassium bi-iodate, primary standard quality, or 3.567 g potassium iodate dried at 103 =/−2 degrees Centigrade for 1 hour, in distilled water and dilute to 1000 ml to yield a 0.1000 N solution. Store in a glass-stoppered bottle. To 80 ml distilled water, add, with constant stirring, 1 ml concentrated sulfuric acid, 10.00 ml 0.1000 N anhydrous potassium bi-iodate, and 1 g potassium iodide. Titrate immediately with 0.1 n sodium thiosulfate titrant until the yellow color of the liberated iodine is almost discharged. Add 1 ml starch indicator solution and continue titrating until the blue color disappears. The normality of the sodium thiosulfate solution is inversely proportional to the ml of sodium thiosulfate solution consumed:
ER15ap98.000
(
6
) To prepare the starch indicator solution, add a small amount of cold water to 5 g starch and grind in a mortar to obtain a thin paste. Pour paste into 1 L of boiling distilled water, stir, and let settle overnight. Use clear supernate for starch indicator solution.
(
7
) To prepare the 10 percent sulfuric acid solution, add 10 ml of concentrated sulfuric acid to 80 ml water in a 100 ml volumetric flask. Dilute to volume.
(F) The procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(ii)(F)(
1
) through (b)(5)(ii)(F)(
5
) of this section shall be used to perform the sampling.
(
1
)
Preparation of collection train.
Measure 20 ml buffered potassium iodide solution into each of the first two impingers and connect probe, impingers, filter, critical orifice, and pump. The sampling line and the impingers shall be shielded from sunlight.
(
2
)
Leak and flow check procedure.
Plug sampling line inlet tip and turn on pump. If a flow of bubbles is visible in either of the liquid impingers, tighten fittings and adjust connections and impingers. A leakage rate not in excess of 2 percent of the sampling rate is acceptable. Carefully remove the plug from the end of the probe. Check the flow rate at the probe inlet with a bubble tube flow meter. The flow should be comparable or slightly less than the flow rate of the critical orifice with the impingers off-line. Record the flow and turn off the pump.
(
3
)
Sample collection.
Insert the sampling line into the stack and secure it with the tip slightly lower than the port height. Start the pump, recording the time. End the sampling after 60 minutes, or after yellow color is observed in the second in-line impinger. Record time and remove the tubing from the vent. Recheck flow rate at sampling line inlet and turn off pump. If the flow rate has changed significantly, redo sampling with fresh capture solution. A slight variation (less than 5 percent) in flow may be averaged. With the inlet end of the line elevated above the impingers, add about 5 ml water into the inlet tip to rinse the line into the first impinger.
(
4
)
Sample analysis.
Fill the burette with 0.01 N sodium thiosulfate solution to the zero mark. Combine the contents of the impingers in the beaker or flask. Stir the solution and titrate with thiosulfate until the solution is colorless. Record the volume of the first endpoint (TN, ml). Add 5 ml of the 10 percent sulfuric acid solution, and continue the titration until the contents of the flask are again colorless. Record the total volume of titrant required to go through the first and to the second endpoint (TA, ml). If the volume of neutral titer is less than 0.5 ml, repeat the testing for a longer period of time. It is important that sufficient lighting be present to clearly see
the endpoints, which are determined when the solution turns from pale yellow to colorless. A lighted stirring plate and a white background are useful for this purpose.
(
5
)
Interferences.
Known interfering agents of this method are sulfur dioxide and hydrogen peroxide. Sulfur dioxide, which is used to reduce oxidant residuals in some bleaching systems, reduces formed iodine to iodide in the capture solution. It is therefore a negative interference for chlorine, and in some cases could result in erroneous negative chlorine concentrations. Any agent capable of reducing iodine to iodide could interfere in this manner. A chromium trioxide impregnated filter will capture sulfur dioxide and pass chlorine and chlorine dioxide. Hydrogen peroxide, which is commonly used as a bleaching agent in modern bleaching systems, reacts with iodide to form iodine and thus can cause a positive interference in the chlorine measurement. Due to the chemistry involved, the precision of the chlorine analysis will decrease as the ratio of chlorine dioxide to chlorine increases. Slightly negative calculated concentrations of chlorine may occur when sampling a vent gas with high concentrations of chlorine dioxide and very low concentrations of chlorine.
(G) The following calculation shall be performed to determine the corrected sampling flow rate:
ER15ap98.001
Where:
S
C
= Corrected (dry standard) sampling flow rate, liters per minute;
S
U
= Uncorrected sampling flow rate, L/min;
BP = Barometric pressure at time of sampling;
PW = Saturated partial pressure of water vapor, mm Hg at temperature; and
t = Ambient temperature, °C.
(H) The following calculation shall be performed to determine the moles of chlorine in the sample:
ER15ap98.002
Where:
T
N
= Volume neutral titer, ml;
T
A
= Volume acid titer (total), ml; and
N
Thio
= Normality of sodium thiosulfate titrant.
(I) The following calculation shall be performed to determine the concentration of chlorine in the sample:
ER15ap98.003
Where:
S
C
= Corrected (dry standard) sampling flow rate, liters per minute;
t
S
= Time sampled, minutes;
T
N
= Volume neutral titer, ml;
T
A
= Volume acid titer (total), ml; and
N
Thio
= Normality of sodium thiosulfate titrant.
(J) The following calculation shall be performed to determine the moles of chlorine dioxide in the sample:
ER15ap98.004
Where:
T
A
= Volume acid titer (total), ml;
T
N
= Volume neutral titer, ml; and
N
Thio
= Normality of sodium thiosulfate titrant.
(K) The following calculation shall be performed to determine the concentration of chlorine dioxide in the sample:
ER15ap98.005
Where:
S
C
= Corrected (dry standard) sampling flow rate, liters per minute;
t
S
= Time sampled, minutes;
T
A
= Volume acid titer (total), ml;
T
N
= Volume neutral titer, ml; and
N
Thio
= Normality of sodium thiosulfate titrant.
(iii) Any other method that measures the total HAP or methanol concentration that has been demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction.
(6) The minimum sampling time for each of the three test runs shall be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15 minute intervals during the test run.
(c)
Liquid sampling locations and properties.
For purposes of selecting liquid sampling locations and for determining properties of liquid streams such as
wastewaters, process waters, and condensates required in §§ 63.444, 63.446, and 63.447, the owner or operator shall comply with the following procedures:
(1) Samples shall be collected using the sampling procedures of the test method listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section selected to determine liquid stream HAP concentrations;
(i) Where feasible, samples shall be taken from an enclosed pipe prior to the liquid stream being exposed to the atmosphere; and
(ii) When sampling from an enclosed pipe is not feasible, samples shall be collected in a manner to minimize exposure of the sample to the atmosphere and loss of HAP compounds prior to sampling.
(2) The volumetric flow rate of the entering and exiting liquid streams shall be determined using the inlet and outlet flow meters or other methods demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction. The volumetric flow rate measurements to determine actual mass removal shall be taken at the same time as the concentration measurements.
(3) The owner or operator shall conduct a minimum of three test runs that are representative of normal conditions and average the resulting pollutant concentrations. The minimum sampling time for each test run shall be 1 hour and the grab or composite samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced intervals over the 1-hour test run period. The owner or operator shall use one of the following procedures to determine total HAP or methanol concentration:
(i) Method 305 in Appendix A of this part, adjusted using the following equation:
ER15ap98.006
Where:
C
= Pollutant concentration for the liquid stream, parts per million by weight.
C
i
= Measured concentration of pollutant i in the liquid stream sample determined using Method 305, parts per million by weight.
fm
i
= Pollutant-specific constant that adjusts concentration measured by Method 305 to actual liquid concentration; the fm for methanol is 0.85. Additional pollutant fm values can be found in table 34, subpart G of this part.
n = Number of individual pollutants, i, summed to calculate total HAP.
(ii) For determining methanol concentrations, NCASI Method DI/MEOH-94.03. This test method is incorporated by reference in § 63.14(f)(1) of subpart A of this part.
(iii) Any other method that measures total HAP concentration that has been demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction.
(4) To determine soluble BOD
5
in the effluent stream from an open biological treatment unit used to comply with §§ 63.446(e)(2) and 63.453(j), the owner or operator shall use section B of method 5210 (IBR, see § 63.14) with the following modifications:
(i) Filter the sample through the filter paper, into an Erlenmeyer flask by applying a vacuum to the flask sidearm. Minimize the time for which vacuum is applied to prevent stripping of volatile organics from the sample. Replace filter paper as often as needed in order to maintain filter times of less than approximately 30 seconds per filter paper. No rinsing of sample container or filter bowl into the Erlenmeyer flask is allowed.
(ii) Perform method 5210B on the filtrate obtained in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Dilution water shall be seeded with 1 milliliter of final effluent per liter of dilution water. Dilution ratios may require adjustment to reflect the lower oxygen demand of the filtered sample in comparison to the total BOD
5
. Three BOD bottles and different dilutions shall be used for each sample.
(5) If the test method used to determine HAP concentration indicates that a specific HAP is not detectable, the value determined as the minimum measurement level (MML) of the selected test method for the specific HAP shall be used in the compliance demonstration calculations. To determine the MML for a specific HAP using one of the test methods specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, one of the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section shall be performed. The MML for a particular HAP must be determined only if the
HAP is not detected in the normal working range of the method.
(i) To determine the MML for a specific HAP, the following procedures shall be performed each time the method is set up. Set up is defined as the first time the analytical apparatus is placed in operation, after any shut down of 6 months or more, or any time a major component of the analytical apparatus is replaced.
(A) Select a concentration value for the specific HAP in question to represent the MML. The value of the MML selected shall not be below the calibration standard of the selected test method.
(B) Measure the concentration of the specific HAP in a minimum of three replicate samples using the selected test method. All replicate samples shall be run through the entire analytical procedure. The samples must contain the specific HAP at the selected MML concentration and should be representative of the liquid streams to be analyzed in the compliance demonstration. Spiking of the liquid samples with a known concentration of the target HAP may be necessary to ensure that the HAP concentration in the three replicate samples is at the selected MML. The concentration of the HAP in the spiked sample must be within 50 percent of the proposed MML for the demonstration to be valid. As an alternative to spiking, a field sample above the MML may be diluted to produce a HAP concentration at the MML. To be a valid demonstration, the diluted sample must have a HAP concentration within 20 percent of the proposed MML, and the field sample must not be diluted by more than a factor of five.
(C) Calculate the relative standard deviation (RSD) and the upper confidence limit at the 95 percent confidence level using the measured HAP concentrations determined in paragraph (c)(5)(i)(B) of this section. If the upper confidence limit of the RSD is less than 30 percent, then the selected MML is acceptable. If the upper confidence limit of the RSD is greater than or equal to 30 percent, then the selected MML is too low, and the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A) through (C) of this section must be repeated.
(ii) Provide for the Administrator's approval the selected value of the MML for a specific HAP and the rationale for selecting the MML including all data and calculations used to determine the MML. The approved MML must be used in all applicable compliance demonstration calculations.
(6) When using the MML determined using the procedures in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section or when using the MML determined using the procedures in paragraph (c)(5)(i), except during set up, the analytical laboratory conducting the analysis must perform and meet the following quality assurance procedures each time a set of samples is analyzed to determine compliance.
(i) Using the selected test method, analyze in triplicate the concentration of the specific HAP in a representative sample. The sample must contain the specific HAP at a concentration that is within a factor of two of the MML. If there are no samples in the set being analyzed that contain the specific HAP at an appropriate concentration, then a sample below the MML may be spiked to produce the appropriate concentration, or a sample at a higher level may be diluted. After spiking, the sample must contain the specific HAP within 50 percent of the MML. If dilution is used instead, the diluted sample must contain the specific HAP within 20 percent of the MML and must not be diluted by more than a factor of five.
(ii) Calculate the RSD using the measured HAP concentrations determined in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section. If the RSD is less than 20 percent, then the laboratory is performing acceptably.
(d)
Detectable leak procedures.
To measure detectable leaks for closed-vent systems as specified in § 63.450 or for pulping process wastewater collection systems as specified in § 63.446(d)(2)(i), the owner or operator shall comply with the following:
(1) Method 21, of part 60, appendix A-7; and
(2) The instrument specified in Method 21 shall be calibrated before use according to the procedures specified in Method 21 on each day that leak
checks are performed. The following calibration gases shall be used:
(i) Zero air (less than 10 parts per million by volume of hydrocarbon in air); and
(ii) A mixture of methane or n-hexane and air at a concentration of approximately, but less than, 10,000 parts per million by volume methane or n-hexane.
(e)
Negative pressure procedures.
To demonstrate negative pressure at process equipment enclosure openings as specified in § 63.450(b), the owner or operator shall use one of the following procedures:
(1) An anemometer to demonstrate flow into the enclosure opening;
(2) Measure the static pressure across the opening;
(3) Smoke tubes to demonstrate flow into the enclosure opening; or
(4) Any other industrial ventilation test method demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction.
(f)
HAP concentration measurements.
For purposes of complying with the requirements in §§ 63.443, 63.444, and 63.447, the owner or operator shall measure the total HAP concentration as one of the following:
(1) As the sum of all individual HAPs; or
(2) As methanol.
(g)
Condensate HAP concentration measurement.
For purposes of complying with the kraft pulping condensate requirements in § 63.446, the owner or operator shall measure the total HAP concentration as methanol. For biological treatment systems complying with § 63.446(e)(2), the owner or operator shall measure total HAP as acetaldehyde, methanol, methyl ethyl ketone, and propionaldehyde and follow the procedures in § 63.457(l)(1) or (2).
(h)
Bleaching HAP concentration measurement.
For purposes of complying with the bleaching system requirements in § 63.445, the owner or operator shall measure the total HAP concentration as the sum of all individual chlorinated HAPs or as chlorine.
(i)
Vent gas stream calculations.
To demonstrate compliance with the mass emission rate, mass emission rate per megagram of ODP, and percent reduction requirements for vent gas streams specified in §§ 63.443, 63.444, 63.445, and 63.447, the owner or operator shall use the following:
(1) The total HAP mass emission rate shall be calculated using the following equation:
ER15ap98.007
Where:
E = Mass emission rate of total HAP from the sampled vent, kilograms per hour.
K
2
= Constant, 2.494 × 10
−6
(parts per million by volume)
−1
(gram-mole per standard cubic meter) (kilogram/gram) (minutes/hour), where standard temperature for (gram-mole per standard cubic meter) is 20 °C.
C
j
= Concentration on a dry basis of pollutant j in parts per million by volume as measured by the test methods specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
M
j
= Molecular weight of pollutant j, gram/gram-mole.
Q
s
= Vent gas stream flow rate (dry standard cubic meter per minute) at a temperature of 20 °C as indicated in paragraph (b) of this section.
n = Number of individual pollutants, i, summed to calculate total HAP.
(2) The total HAP mass emission rate per megagram of ODP shall be calculated using the following equation:
ER15ap98.008
Where:
F = Mass emission rate of total HAP from the sampled vent, in kilograms per megagram of ODP.
E = Mass emission rate of total HAP from the sampled vent, in kilograms per hour determined as specified in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
P = The production rate of pulp during the sampling period, in megagrams of ODP per hour.
(3) The total HAP percent reduction shall be calculated using the following equation:
ER15ap98.009
Where:
R = Efficiency of control device, percent.
Ei = Inlet mass emission rate of total HAP from the sampled vent, in kilograms of pollutant per hour, determined as specified in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
E
o
= Outlet mass emission rate of total HAP from the sampled vent, in kilograms of pollutant per hour, determined as specified in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
(j)
Liquid stream calculations.
To demonstrate compliance with the mass flow rate, mass per megagram of ODP, and percent reduction requirements for liquid streams specified in § 63.446, the owner or operator shall use the following:
(1) The mass flow rates of total HAP or methanol entering and exiting the treatment process shall be calculated using the following equations:
ER15ap98.010
Where:
E
b
= Mass flow rate of total HAP or methanol in the liquid stream entering the treatment process, kilograms per hour.
E
a
= Mass flow rate of total HAP or methanol in the liquid exiting the treatment process, kilograms per hour.
K = Density of the liquid stream, kilograms per cubic meter.
V
bi
= Volumetric flow rate of liquid stream entering the treatment process during each run i, cubic meters per hour, determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
V
ai
= Volumetric flow rate of liquid stream exiting the treatment process during each run i, cubic meters per hour, determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
C
bi
= Concentration of total HAP or methanol in the stream entering the treatment process during each run i, parts per million by weight, determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
C
ai
= Concentration of total HAP or methanol in the stream exiting the treatment process during each run i, parts per million by weight, determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
n = Number of runs.
(2) The mass of total HAP or methanol per megagram ODP shall be calculated using the following equation:
ER15ap98.011
Where:
F = Mass loading of total HAP or methanol in the sample, in kilograms per megagram of ODP.
E
a
= Mass flow rate of total HAP or methanol in the wastewater stream in kilograms per hour as determined using the procedures in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
P = The production rate of pulp during the sampling period in megagrams of ODP per hour.
(3) The percent reduction of total HAP across the applicable treatment process shall be calculated using the following equation:
ER15ap98.012
Where:
R = Control efficiency of the treatment process, percent.
E
b
= Mass flow rate of total HAP in the stream entering the treatment process, kilograms per hour, as determined in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
E
a
= Mass flow rate of total HAP in the stream exiting the treatment process, kilograms per hour, as determined in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
(4) Compounds that meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (j)(4)(i) or (4)(ii) of this section are not required to be included in the mass flow rate, mass per megagram of ODP, or the mass percent reduction determinations.
(i) Compounds with concentrations at the point of determination that are below 1 part per million by weight; or
(ii) Compounds with concentrations at the point of determination that are below the lower detection limit where the lower detection limit is greater than 1 part per million by weight.
(k)
Oxygen concentration correction procedures.
To demonstrate compliance with the total HAP concentration limit of 20 ppmv in § 63.443(d)(2), the concentration measured using the methods specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall be corrected to 10 percent oxygen using the following procedures:
(1) The emission rate correction factor and excess air integrated sampling and analysis procedures of Methods 3A or 3B of part 60, appendix A-2 shall be used to determine the oxygen concentration. The samples shall be taken at the same time that the HAP samples are taken. As an alternative to Method
3B, ASME PTC 19.10-1981 [Part 10] may be used (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14(i)(1)).
(2) The concentration corrected to 10 percent oxygen shall be computed using the following equation:
ER15ap98.013
Where:
C
c
= Concentration of total HAP corrected to 10 percent oxygen, dry basis, parts per million by volume.
C
m
= Concentration of total HAP dry basis, parts per million by volume, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
%0
2d
= Concentration of oxygen, dry basis, percent by volume.
(l)
Biological treatment system percent reduction and mass removal calculations.
To demonstrate compliance with the condensate treatment standards specified in § 63.446(e)(2) and the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.453(j)(3) using a biological treatment system, the owner or operator shall use one of the procedures specified in paragraphs (1)(1) and (2) of this section. Owners or operators using a nonthoroughly mixed open biological treatment system shall also comply with paragraph (1)(3) of this section.
(1)
Percent reduction methanol procedure.
For the purposes of complying with the condensate treatment requirements specified in § 63.446(e)(2) and (3), the methanol percent reduction shall be calculated using the following equations:
ER14MY01.003
Where:
R = Percent destruction.
f
bio
(MeOH) = The fraction of methanol removed in the biological treatment system. The site-specific biorate constants shall be determined using the appropriate procedures specified in appendix C of this part.
r = Ratio of the sum of acetaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone, and propionaldehyde mass to methanol mass.
F
(nonmethanol)
= The sum of acetaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone, and propionaldehyde mass flow rates (kg/Mg ODP) entering the biological treatment system determined using the procedures in paragraph (j)(2) of this section.
F
(methanol)
= The mass flow rate (kg/Mg ODP) of methanol entering the system determined using the procedures in paragraph (j)(2) of this section.
(2)
Mass removal methanol procedure.
For the purposes of complying with the condensate treatment requirements specified in § 63.446(e)(2) and (4), or § 63.446(e)(2) and (5), the methanol mass removal shall be calculated using the following equation:
ER14MY01.004
Where:
F = Methanol mass removal (kg/Mg ODP).
F
b
= Inlet mass flow rate of methanol (kg/Mg ODP) determined using the procedures in paragraph (j)(2) of this section.
f
bio
(MeOH) = The fraction of methanol removed in the biological treatment system. The site-specific biorate constants shall be determined using the appropriate procedures specified in appendix C of this part.
r = Ratio of the sum of acetaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone, and propionaldehyde mass to methanol mass determined using the procedures in paragraph (1) of this section.
(3) The owner or operator of a nonthoroughly mixed open biological treatment system using the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.453(p)(3) shall follow the procedures specified in section III.B.1 of appendix E of this part to determine the borate constant, Ks, and characterize the open biological treatment system during the initial and any subsequent performance tests.
(m)
Condensate segregation procedures.
The following procedures shall be used to demonstrate compliance with the condensate segregation requirements specified in § 63.446(c).
(1) To demonstrate compliance with the percent mass requirements specified in § 63.446(c)(2), the procedures specified in paragraphs (m)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section shall be performed.
(i) Determine the total HAP mass of all condensates from each equipment system listed in § 63.446 (b)(1) through
(b)(3) using the procedures specified in paragraphs (c) and (j) of this section.
(ii) Multiply the total HAP mass determined in paragraph (m)(1)(i) of this section by 0.65 to determine the target HAP mass for the high-HAP fraction condensate stream or streams.
(iii) Compliance with the segregation requirements specified in § 63.446(c)(2) is demonstrated if the condensate stream or streams from each equipment system listed in § 63.446(b)(1) through (3) being treated as specified in § 63.446(e) contain at least as much total HAP mass as the target total HAP mass determined in paragraph (m)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2) To demonstrate compliance with the percent mass requirements specified in § 63.446(c)(3), the procedures specified in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) through (ii) of this section shall be performed.
(i) Determine the total HAP mass contained in the high-HAP fraction condensates from each equipment system listed in § 63.446(b)(1) through (b)(3) and the total condensates streams from the equipment systems listed in § 63.446(b)(4) and (b)(5), using the procedures specified in paragraphs (c) and (j) of this section.
(ii) Compliance with the segregation requirements specified in § 63.446(c)(3) is demonstrated if the total HAP mass determined in paragraph (m)(2)(i) of this section is equal to or greater than the appropriate mass requirements specified in § 63.446(c)(3).
(n)
Open biological treatment system monitoring sampling storage.
The inlet and outlet grab samples required to be collected in § 63.453(j)(1)(ii) shall be stored at 4 °C (40 °F) to minimize the biodegradation of the organic compounds in the samples.
(o) Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
[63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 17564, Apr. 12, 1999; 65 FR 80763, Dec. 22, 2000; 66 FR 24269, May 14, 2001; 77 FR 55712, Sept. 11, 2012; 88 FR 18412, Mar. 29, 2023]
§ 63.458
Implementation and enforcement.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.440, 63.443 through 63.447 and 63.450. Where these standards reference another subpart, the cited provisions will be delegated according to the delegation provisions of the referenced subpart.
(2) Approval of alternatives to using §§ 63.457(b)(5)(iii), 63.457(c)(3)(ii) through (iii), and 63.257(c)(5)(ii), and any major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of alternatives using § 64.453(m) and any major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
[68 FR 37348, June 23, 2003]
§ 63.459
Alternative standards.
(a)
Flint River Mill.
The owner or operator of the pulping system using the kraft process at the manufacturing facility, commonly called Weyerhaeuser Company Flint River Operations, at Old Stagecoach Road, Oglethorpe, Georgia, (hereafter the Site) shall comply with all provisions of this subpart, except as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator of the pulping system is not required to control total HAP emissions from equipment systems specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) if the owner or operator complies with paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(5) of this section.
(i) The brownstock diffusion washer vent and first stage brownstock diffusion washer filtrate tank vent in the pulp washing system specified in § 63.443(a)(1)(iii).
(ii) The oxygen delignification system specified in § 63.443(a)(1)(v).
(2) The owner or operator of the pulping system shall control total HAP emissions from equipment systems listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(ix) of this section as specified in § 63.443(c) and (d) of this subpart no later than April 16, 2002.
(i) The weak liquor storage tank;
(ii) The boilout tank;
(iii) The utility tank;
(iv) The fifty percent solids black liquor storage tank;
(v) The south sixty-seven percent solids black liquor storage tank;
(vi) The north sixty-seven percent solids black liquor storage tank;
(vii) The precipitator make down tanks numbers one, two and three;
(viii) The salt cake mix tank; and
(ix) The NaSH storage tank.
(3) The owner and operator of the pulping system shall operate the Isothermal Cooking system at the site while pulp is being produced in the continuous digester at any time after April 16, 2002.
(i) The owner or operator shall monitor the following parameters to demonstrate that isothermal cooking is in operation:
(A) Continuous digester dilution factor; and
(B) The difference between the continuous digester vapor zone temperature and the continuous digester extraction header temperature.
(ii) The isothermal cooking system shall be in operation when the continuous digester dilution factor and the temperature difference between the continuous digester vapor zone temperature and the continuous digester extraction header temperature are maintained as set forth in Table 2:
Table 2 to Subpart S—Isothermal Cooking System Operational Values
Parameter
Instrument number
Limit
Units
Digester Dilution Factor
K1DILFAC
0.0
None
Difference in Digester Vapor Zone Temperature and Digester
03TI0311
10
Degrees F.
Extraction Header Temperature
03TI0329
(iii) The owner or operator shall certify annually the operational status of the isothermal cooking system.
(4) [Reserved]
(5)
Definitions.
All descriptions and references to equipment and emission unit ID numbers refer to equipment at the Site. All terms used in this paragraph shall have the meaning given them in this part and this paragraph. For the purposes of this paragraph only the following additional definitions apply:
Boilout tank
means the tank that provides tank storage capacity for recovery of black liquor spills and evaporator water washes for return to the evaporators (emission unit ID No. U606);
Brownstock diffusion washer
means the equipment used to wash pulp from the surge chests to further reduce lignin carryover in the pulp;
Continuous digester
means the digester system used to chemically and thermally remove the lignin binding
the wood chips to produce individual pulp fibers (emission unit ID No. P300);
Fifty percent solids black liquor storage tank
means the tank used to store intermediate black liquor prior to final evaporation in the 1A, 1B, and 1C Concentrators (emission unit ID No. U605);
First stage brownstock diffusion washer
means the equipment that receives and stores filtrate from the first stage of washing for return to the pressure diffusion washer;
Isothermal cooking system
means the 1995-1996 modernization of brownstock pulping process including conversion of the Kamyr continuous vapor phase digester to an extended delignification unit and changes in the knotting, screening, and oxygen stage systems:
NaSH storage tank
means the tank used to store sodium hydrosulfite solution prior to use as make-up to the liquor system
North sixty-seven percent solids black liquor storage tank
means one of two tanks used to store black liquor prior to burning in the Recovery Boiler for chemical recovery (emission unit ID No. U501);
Precipitator make down tank numbers one, two and three
mean tanks used to mix collected particulate from electrostatic precipitator chamber number one with 67% black liquor for recycle to chemical recovery in the Recovery Boiler (emission unit ID Nos. U504, U505 and U506);
Salt cake mix tank
means the tank used to mix collected particulate from economizer hoppers with black liquor for recycle to chemical recovery in the Recovery Boiler (emission unit ID No. U503);
South sixty-seven percent solids black liquor storage tank
means one of two tanks used to store black liquor prior to burning in the Recovery Boiler for chemical recovery (emission unit ID No. U502);
Utility tank
means the tank used to store fifty percent liquor and, during black liquor tank inspections and repairs, to serve as a backup liquor storage tank (emission unit ID No. U611);
Weak gas system
means high volume, low concentration or HVLC system as defined in § 63.441; and
Weak liquor storage tank
means the tank that provide surge capacity for weak black liquor from digesting prior to feed to multiple effect evaporators (emission unit ID No. U610).
(b)
Tomahawk Wisconsin Mill
—(1)
Applicability.
(i) The provisions of this paragraph (b) apply to the owner or operator of the stand-alone semi-chemical pulp and paper mill located at N9090 County Road E in Tomahawk, Wisconsin, referred to as the Tomahawk Mill.
(ii) The owner or operator is not required to comply with the provisions of this paragraph (b) if the owner and operator chooses to comply with the otherwise applicable sections of this subpart and provides the EPA with notice.
(iii) If the owner or operator chooses to comply with the provisions of this paragraph (b) the owner or operator shall comply with all applicable provisions of this part, including this subpart, except the following:
(A) Section 63.443(b);
(B) Section 63.443(c); and
(C) Section 63.443(d).
(2)
Collection and routing of HAP emissions.
(i) The owner or operator shall collect the total HAP emissions from each LVHC system.
(ii) Each LVHC system shall be enclosed and the HAP emissions shall be vented into a closed-vent system. The enclosures and closed-vent system shall meet requirements specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(iii) The HAP emissions shall be routed as follows:
(A) The HAP emissions collected in the closed-vent system from the digester system shall be routed through the primary indirect contact condenser, secondary indirect contact condenser, and evaporator indirect contact condenser; and
(B) The HAP emissions collected in the closed-vent system from the evaporator system and foul condensate standpipe shall be routed through the evaporator indirect contact condenser.
(3)
Collection and routing of pulping process condensates.
(i) The owner or operator shall collect the pulping process condensates from the following equipment systems:
(A) Primary indirect contact condenser;
(B) Secondary indirect contact condenser; and
(C) Evaporator indirect contact condenser.
(ii) The collected pulping process condensates shall be conveyed in a closed collection system that is designed and operated to meet the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.
(iii) The collected pulping process condensates shall be routed in the closed collection system to the wastewater treatment plant anaerobic basins for biodegradation.
(iv) The pulping process condensates shall be discharged into the wastewater treatment plant anaerobic basins below the liquid surface of the wastewater treatment plant anaerobic basins.
(4)
HAP destruction efficiency requirements of the wastewater treatment plant.
(i) The owner or operator shall achieve a destruction efficiency of at least one pound of HAPs per ton of ODP by biodegradation in the wastewater treatment plant.
(ii) The following calculation shall be performed to determine the HAP destruction efficiency by biodegradation in the wastewater treatment plant:
ER13AP04.093
Where:
HAP
d
= HAP destruction efficiency of wastewater treatment plant (pounds of HAPs per ton of ODP);
RME
fr
= flow rate of raw mill effluent (millions of gallons per day);
RME
c
= HAP concentration of raw mill effluent (milligrams per liter);
PPC
fr
= flow rate of pulping process condensates (millions of gallons per day);
PPC
c
= HAP concentration of pulping process condensates (milligrams per liter);
ABD
fr
= flow rate of anaerobic basin discharge (millions of gallons per day);
ABD
c
= HAP concentration of anaerobic basin discharge (milligrams per liter); and
ODP
r
= rate of production of oven dried pulp (tons per day).
(5)
Monitoring requirements and parameter ranges.
(i) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain according to the manufacturer's specifications a continuous monitoring system (CMS, as defined in § 63.2), using a continuous recorder, to monitor the following parameters:
(A) Evaporator indirect contact condenser vent temperature;
(B) Pulping process condensates flow rate;
(C) Wastewater treatment plant effluent flow rate; and
(D) Production rate of ODP.
(ii) The owner or operator shall additionally monitor, on a daily basis, in each of the four anaerobic basins, the ratio of volatile acid to alkalinity (VA/A ratio). The owner or operator shall use the test methods identified for determining acidity and alkalinity as specified in 40 CFR 136.3, Table 1B.
(iii) The temperature of the evaporator indirect contact condenser vent shall be maintained at or below 140 °F on a continuous basis.
(iv) The VA/A ratio in each of the four anaerobic basins shall be maintained at or below 0.5 on a continuous basis.
(A) The owner or operator shall measure the methanol concentration of the outfall of any basin, using NCASI Method DI/MEOH 94.03 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), when the VA/A ratio of that basin exceeds the following:
(
1
) 0.38, or
(
2
) The highest VA/A ratio at which the outfall of any basin has previously measured non-detect for methanol, using NCASI Method DI/MEOH 94.03 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
(B) If the outfall of that basin measures detect for methanol, the owner or operator shall verify compliance with the emission standard specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section by conducting a performance test pursuant to the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.
(v) The owner or operator may seek to establish or reestablish the parameter ranges, and/or the parameters required to be monitored as provided in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (v) of this section, by following the provisions of § 63.453(n)(1) through (4).
(6)
Standards and monitoring requirements for each enclosure and closed-vent system.
(i) The owner or operator shall comply with the design and operational requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(ii) through (iv) of this section, and the monitoring requirements of paragraphs (b)(6)(v) through (x) of this section for each enclosure and closed-vent system used for collecting and routing of HAP emissions as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(ii) Each enclosure shall be maintained at negative pressure at each enclosure or hood opening as demonstrated by the procedures specified in § 63.457(e). Each enclosure or hood opening closed during the initial performance test shall be maintained in the same closed and sealed position as during the performance test at all times except when necessary to use the opening for sampling, inspection, maintenance, or repairs.
(iii) Each component of the closed-vent system that is operated at positive pressure shall be designed for and operated with no detectable leaks as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million by volume above background, as measured by the procedures specified in § 63.457(d).
(iv) Each bypass line in the closed-vent system that could divert vent streams containing HAPs to the atmosphere without meeting the routing requirements specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall comply with either of the following requirements:
(A) On each bypass line, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow indicator that provides a record of the presence of gas stream flow in the bypass line at least once every 15 minutes. The flow indicator shall be installed in the bypass line in such a way as to indicate flow in the bypass line; or
(B) For bypass line valves that are not computer controlled, the owner or operator shall maintain the bypass line valve in the closed position with a car seal or seal placed on the valve or closure mechanism in such a way that the valve or closure mechanism cannot be opened without breaking the seal.
(v) For each enclosure opening, the owner or operator shall perform, at least once every 30 days, a visual inspection of the closure mechanism specified in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section to ensure the opening is maintained in the closed position and sealed.
(vi) For each closed-vent system required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall perform a visual inspection every 30 days and at other times as requested by the Administrator. The visual inspection shall include inspection of ductwork, piping, enclosures, and connections to covers for visible evidence of defects.
(vii) For positive pressure closed-vent systems, or portions of closed-vent systems, the owner or operator shall demonstrate no detectable leaks as specified in paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section, measured initially and annually by the procedures in § 63.457(d).
(viii) For each enclosure that is maintained at negative pressure, the owner or operator shall demonstrate initially and annually that it is maintained at negative pressure as specified in § 63.457(e).
(ix) For each valve or closure mechanism as specified in paragraph (b)(6)(iv)(B) of this section, the owner or operator shall perform an inspection at least once every 30 days to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and the emissions point gas stream is not diverted through the bypass line.
(x) If an inspection required by paragraph (b)(6) of this section identifies visible defects in ductwork, piping, enclosures, or connections to covers required by paragraph (b)(6) of this section, or if an instrument reading of 500 parts per million by volume or greater above background is measured, or if the enclosure openings are not maintained at negative pressure, then the following corrective actions shall be taken as soon as follows:
(A) A first effort to repair or correct the closed-vent system shall be made
as soon as practicable but no later than 5 calendar days after the problem is identified.
(B) The repair or corrective action shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the problem is identified.
(7)
Standards and monitoring requirements for the pulping process condensates closed collection system.
(i) The owner or operator shall comply with the design and operational requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(ii) through (iii) of this section, and monitoring requirements of paragraph (b)(7)(iv) for the equipment systems in paragraph (b)(3) of this section used to route the pulping process condensates in a closed collection system.
(ii) Each closed collection system shall meet the individual drain system requirements specified in §§ 63.960, 63.961, and 63.962, except that the closed vent systems shall be designed and operated in accordance with paragraph (b)(6) of this section, instead of in accordance with § 63.693 as specified in § 63.692(a)(3)(ii), (b)(3)(ii)(A), and (b)(3)(ii)(B)(5)(iii); and
(iii) If a condensate tank is used in the closed collection system, the tank shall meet the following requirements:
(A) The fixed roof and all openings (e.g., access hatches, sampling ports, gauge wells) shall be designed and operated with no detectable leaks as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million above background, and vented into a closed-vent system that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(6) of this section and routed in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(B) Each opening shall be maintained in a closed, sealed position (e.g., covered by a lid that is gasketed and latched) at all times that the tank contains pulping process condensates or any HAPs removed from a pulping process condensate stream except when it is necessary to use the opening for sampling, removal, or for equipment inspection, maintenance, or repair.
(iv) For each pulping process condensate closed collection system used to comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall perform a visual inspection every 30 days and shall comply with the inspection and monitoring requirements specified in § 63.964 except for the closed-vent system and control device inspection and monitoring requirements specified in § 63.964(a)(2).
(8)
Quarterly performance testing.
(i) The owner or operator shall, within 45 days after the beginning of each quarter, conduct a performance test.
(ii) The owner or operator shall use NCASI Method DI/HAPS-99.01 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) to collect a grab sample and determine the HAP concentration of the Raw Mill Effluent, Pulping Process Condensates, and Anaerobic Basin Discharge for the quarterly performance test conducted during the first quarter each year.
(iii) For each of the remaining three quarters, the owner or operator may use NCASI Method DI/MEOH 94.03 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) as a surrogate to collect and determine the HAP concentration of the Raw Mill Effluent, Pulping Process Condensates, and Anaerobic Basin Discharge.
(iv) The sample used to determine the HAP or Methanol concentration in the Raw Mill Effluent, Pulping Process Condensates, or Anaerobic Basin Discharge shall be a composite of four grab samples taken evenly spaced over an eight hour time period.
(v) The Raw Mill Effluent grab samples shall be taken from the raw mill effluent composite sampler.
(vi) The Pulping Process Condensates grab samples shall be taken from a line tap on the closed condensate collection system prior to discharge into the wastewater treatment plant.
(vii) The Anaerobic Basic Discharge grab samples shall be taken subsequent to the confluence of the four anaerobic basin discharges.
(viii) The flow rate of the Raw Mill Effluent, Pulping Process Condensates, and Anaerobic Basin Discharge, and the production rate of ODP shall be averaged over eight hours.
(ix) The data collected as specified in paragraphs (b)(5) and (b)(8) of this section shall be used to determine the HAP destruction efficiency of the wastewater treatment plant as specified in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section.
(x) The HAP destruction efficiency shall be at least as great as that specified by paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
(9)
Recordkeeping requirements.
(i) The owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements as specified in Table 1 of subpart S of part 63 as it pertains to § 63.10.
(ii) The owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 63.454(b).
(iii) The owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 63.453(d).
(10)
Reporting requirements.
(i) Each owner or operator shall comply with the reporting requirements as specified in Table 1 of § 63.10.
(ii) Each owner or operator shall comply with the reporting requirements as specified in § 63.455(d).
(11)
Violations.
(i) Failure to comply with any applicable provision of this part shall constitute a violation.
(ii) Periods of excess emissions shall not constitute a violation provided the time of excess emissions divided by the total process operating time in a semi-annual reporting period does not exceed one percent. All periods of excess emission shall be reported, and shall include:
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(11)(ii) of this section, any excess emissions that present an imminent threat to public health or the environment, or may cause serious harm to public health or the environment, shall constitute a violation.
[66 FR 34124, June 27, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 52538, Oct. 16, 2001; 69 FR 19740, Apr. 13, 2004; 77 FR 55713, Sept. 11, 2012]
Pt. 63, Subpt. S, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart S of Part 63—General Provisions Applicability to Subpart S
a
Reference
Applies to
subpart S
Comment
63.1(a)(1)-(3)
Yes
63.1(a)(4)
Yes
Subpart S (this table) specifies applicability of each paragraph in subpart A to subpart S.
63.1(a)(5)
No
Section reserved.
63.1(a)(6)
Yes
63.1(a)(7)-(9)
No
Sections reserved.
63.1(a)(10)
No
Subpart S and other cross-referenced subparts specify calendar or operating day.
63.1(a)(11)-(12)
Yes
63.1(b)(1)
No
Subpart S specifies its own applicability.
63.1(b)(2)
No
Section reserved.
63.1(b)(3)
Yes
63.1(c)(1)-(2)
Yes
63.1(c)(3)-(4)
No
Sections reserved.
63.1(c)(5)
Yes
63.1(c)(6)
Yes
63.1(d)
No
Section reserved.
63.1(e)
Yes
63.2
Yes
63.3
Yes
63.4(a)(1)-(2)
Yes
63.4(a)(3)-(5)
No
Sections reserved.
63.4(b)
Yes
63.4(c)
Yes
63.5(a)
Yes
63.5(b)(1)
Yes
63.5(b)(2)
No
Section reserved.
63.5(b)(3)-(4)
Yes
63.5(b)(5)
No
Section reserved.
63.5(b)(6)
Yes
63.5(c)
No
Section reserved.
63.5(d)
Yes
63.5(e)
Yes
63.5(f)
Yes
63.6(a)
Yes
63.6(b)(1)-(5)
No
Subpart S specifies compliance dates for sources subject to subpart S.
63.6(b)(6)
No
Section reserved.
63.6(b)(7)
No
Subpart S specifies compliance dates for sources subject to subpart S.
63.6(c)(1)-(2)
No
Subpart S specifies compliance dates for sources subject to subpart S.
63.6(c)(3)-(4)
No
Sections reserved.
63.6(c)(5)
No
Subpart S specifies compliance dates for sources subject to subpart S.
63.6(d)
No
Section reserved.
63.6(e)(1)(i)
No
See § 63.453(q) for general duty requirement.
63.6(e)(1)(ii)
No
63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Yes
63.6(e)(2)
No
Section reserved.
63.6(e)(3)
No
63.6(f)(1)
No
63.6(f)(2)-(3)
Yes
63.6(g)
Yes
63.6(h)(1)-(2)
No
Pertains to continuous opacity monitors that are not part of this standard.
63.6(h)(3)
No
Section reserved.
63.6(h)(4)-(9)
No
Pertains to continuous opacity monitors that are not part of this standard.
63.6(i)(1)-(14)
Yes
63.6(i)(15)
No
Section reserved.
63.6(i)(16)
Yes
63.6(j)
Yes
63.7(a)
Yes
63.7(b)
Yes
63.7(c)
Yes
63.7(d)
Yes
63.7(e)(1)
No
Replaced with § 63.457(o), which specifies performance testing conditions under subpart S.
63.7(e)(2)-(4)
Yes
63.7(f)
Yes
63.7(g)(1)
Yes
63.7(g)(2)
No
Section reserved.
63.7(g)(3)
Yes
63.7(h)
Yes
63.8(a)(1)-(2)
Yes
63.8(a)(3)
No
Section reserved.
63.8(a)(4)
Yes
63.8(b)(1)
Yes
63.8(b)(2)
No
Subpart S specifies locations to conduct monitoring.
63.8(b)(3)
Yes
63.8(c)(1)-(c)(1)(i)
No
See § 63.453(q) for general duty requirement (which includes monitoring equipment).
63.8(c)(1)(ii)
Yes
63.8(c)(1)(iii)
No
63.8(c)(2)-(3)
Yes
63.8(c)(4)
No
Subpart S allows site specific determination of monitoring frequency in § 63.453(n)(4).
63.8(c)(5)
No
Pertains to continuous opacity monitors that are not part of this standard.
63.8(c)(6)-(8)
Yes
63.8(d)(1)-(2)
Yes
63.8(d)(3)
Yes, except for last sentence, which refers to an SSM plan
SSM plans are not required
63.8(e)
Yes
63.8(f)(1)-(5)
Yes
63.8(f)(6)
No
Subpart S does not specify relative accuracy test for CEMs.
63.8(g)
Yes
63.9(a)
Yes
63.9(b)(1)-(2)
Yes
Initial notifications must be submitted within one year after the source becomes subject to the relevant standard.
63.9(b)(3)
No
Section reserved.
63.9(b)(4)-(5)
Yes
63.9(c)
Yes
63.9(d)
No
Special compliance requirements are only applicable to kraft mills.
63.9(e)
Yes
63.9(f)
No
Pertains to continuous opacity monitors that are not part of this standard.
63.9(g)(1)
Yes
63.9(g)(2)
No
Pertains to continuous opacity monitors that are not part of this standard.
63.9(g)(3)
No
Subpart S does not specify relative accuracy tests, therefore no notification is required for an alternative.
63.9(h)(1)-(3)
Yes
63.9(h)(4)
No
Section reserved.
63.9(h)(5)-(6)
Yes
63.9(i)
Yes
63.9(j)
Yes
63.9(k)
Yes
Only as specified in § 63.9(j).
63.10(a)
Yes
63.10(b)(1)
Yes
63.10(b)(2)(i)
No
63.10(b)(2)(ii)
No
See § 63.454(g) for recordkeeping of (1) occurrence and duration and (2) actions taken during malfunction.
63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Yes
63.10(b)(2)(iv)-(v)
No
63.10(b)(2)(vi)-(xiv)
Yes
63.10(b)(3)
Yes
63.10(c)(1)
Yes
63.10(c)(2)-(4)
No
Sections reserved.
63.10(c)(5)-(8)
Yes
63.10(c)(9)
No
Section reserved.
63.10(c)(10)-(11)
No
See § 63.454(g) for malfunction recordkeeping requirements.
63.10(c)(12)-(14)
Yes
63.10(c)(15)
No
63.10(d)(1)-(2)
Yes
63.10(d)(3)
No
Pertains to continuous opacity monitors that are not part of this standard.
63.10(d)(4)
Yes
63.10(d)(5)
No
See § 63.455(g) for malfunction reporting requirements.
63.10(e)(1)
Yes
63.10(e)(2)(i)
Yes
63.10(e)(2)(ii)
No
Pertains to continuous opacity monitors that are not part of this standard.
63.10(e)(3)
Yes
63.10(e)(4)
No
Pertains to continuous opacity monitors that are not part of this standard.
63.10(f)
Yes
63.11-63.15
Yes
a
Wherever subpart A specifies “postmark” dates, submittals may be sent by methods other than the U.S. Mail (e.g., by fax or courier). Submittals shall be sent by the specified dates, but a postmark is not required.
[77 FR 55713, Sept. 11, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 73890, Nov. 19, 2020]

# Subpart T—National Emission Standards for Halogenated Solvent Cleaning

# Source:
59 FR 61805, Dec. 2, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.460
Applicability and designation of source.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to each individual batch vapor, in-line vapor, in-line cold, and batch cold solvent cleaning machine that uses any solvent containing methylene chloride (CAS No. 75-09-2), perchloroethylene (CAS No. 127-18-4), trichloroethylene (CAS No. 79-01-6), 1,1,1-trichloroethane (CAS No. 71-55-6), carbon tetrachloride (CAS No. 56-23-5) or chloroform (CAS No. 67-66-3), or any combination of these halogenated HAP solvents, in a total concentration greater than 5 percent by weight, as a cleaning and/or drying agent. The concentration of these solvents may be determined using EPA test method 18, material safety data sheets, or engineering calculations. Wipe cleaning activities, such as using a rag containing halogenated solvent or a spray cleaner containing halogenated solvent are not covered under the provisions of this subpart.
(b) Except as noted in appendix C (General Provisions Applicability to subpart T) of this subpart, the provisions of subpart A of this part (General Provisions) apply to owners or operators of any solvent cleaning machine meeting the applicability criteria of paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each solvent cleaning machine subject to this subpart
that commenced construction or reconstruction after November 29, 1993 shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except for § 63.471, immediately upon start-up or by December 2, 1994, whichever is later.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each solvent cleaning machine subject to this subpart that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before November 29, 1993 shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except for § 63.471, no later than December 2, 1997.
(e) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority to a State under section 112(d) of the Act, the authority contained in paragraph (f) of this section shall be retained by the Administrator and not transferred to a State.
(f) [Reserved]
(g) Each continuous web cleaning machine subject to this subpart shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart, except for § 63.471, no later than December 2, 1999.
(h) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
(i) The compliance date for the requirements in § 63.471 depends on the date that construction or reconstruction of the affected facility commences. For purposes of this paragraph, affected facility means all solvent cleaning machines, except solvent cleaning machines used in the manufacture and maintenance of aerospace products, solvent cleaning machines used in the manufacture of narrow tubing, and continuous web cleaning machines, located at a major source that are subject to the facility-wide limits in table 1 of § 63.471(b)(2), and for area sources, affected facility means all solvent cleaning machines, except cold batch cleaning machines, located at an area source that are subject to the facility-wide limits in table 1 of § 63.471(b)(2).
(1) Each affected facility that was constructed or reconstructed on or before August 17, 2006, shall be in compliance with the provisions of this subpart no later than May 3, 2010.
(2) Each affected facility that was constructed or reconstructed on or after August 17, 2006, shall be in compliance with the provisions of this subpart on May 3, 2007 or immediately upon startup, whichever is later.
[59 FR 61805, Dec. 2, 1994; 59 FR 67750, Dec. 30, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 29485, June 5, 1995; 63 FR 68400, Dec. 11, 1998; 68 FR 37349, June 23, 2003; 70 FR 75345, Dec. 19, 2005; 72 FR 25157, May 3, 2007]
§ 63.461
Definitions.
Unless defined below, all terms used in this subpart are used as defined in the 1990 Clean Air Act, or in subpart A of 40 CFR part 63:
Administrator
means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or his or her authorized representative (e.g., State that has been delegated the authority to implement the provisions of this part.)
Air blanket
means the layer of air inside the solvent cleaning machine freeboard located above the solvent/air interface. The centerline of the air blanket is equidistant between the sides of the machine.
Air knife system
means a device that directs forced air at high pressure, high volume, or a combination of high pressure and high volume, through a small opening directly at the surface of a continuous web part. The purpose of this system is to remove the solvent film from the surfaces of the continuous web part.
Automated parts handling system
means a mechanical device that carries all parts and parts baskets at a controlled speed from the initial loading of soiled or wet parts through the removal of the cleaned or dried parts. Automated parts handling systems include, but are not limited to, hoists and conveyors.
Batch cleaning machine
means a solvent cleaning machine in which individual parts or a set of parts move
through the entire cleaning cycle before new parts are introduced into the solvent cleaning machine. An open-top vapor cleaning machine is a type of batch cleaning machine. A solvent cleaning machine, such as a ferris wheel or a cross-rod degreaser, that clean multiple batch loads simultaneously and are manually loaded are batch cleaning machines.
Carbon adsorber
means a bed of activated carbon into which an air-solvent gas-vapor stream is routed and which adsorbs the solvent on the carbon.
Clean liquid solvent
means fresh unused solvent, recycled solvent, or used solvent that has been cleaned of soils (e.g., skimmed of oils or sludge and strained of metal chips).
Cleaning capacity
means, for a cleaning machine without a solvent/air interface, the maximum volume of parts that can be cleaned at one time. In most cases, the cleaning capacity is equal to the volume (length times width times height) of the cleaning chamber.
Cold cleaning machine
means any device or piece of equipment that contains and/or uses liquid solvent, into which parts are placed to remove soils from the surfaces of the parts or to dry the parts. Cleaning machines that contain and use heated, nonboiling solvent to clean the parts are classified as cold cleaning machines.
Combined squeegee and air-knife system
means a system consisting of a combination of a squeegee system and an air-knife system within a single enclosure.
Consumption
means the amount of halogenated hazardous air pollutant solvent added to the solvent cleaning machine.
Continuous web cleaning machine
means a solvent cleaning machine in which parts such as film, coils, wire, and metal strips are cleaned at speeds typically in excess of 11 feet per minute. Parts are generally uncoiled, cleaned such that the same part is simultaneously entering and exiting the solvent application area of the solvent cleaning machine, and then recoiled or cut. For the purposes of this subpart, all continuous web cleaning machines are considered to be a subset of in-line solvent cleaning machines.
Cover
means a lid, top, or portal cover that shields the solvent cleaning machine openings from air disturbances when in place and is designed to be easily opened and closed without disturbing the vapor zone. Air disturbances include, but are not limited to, lip exhausts, ventilation fans, and general room drafts. Types of covers include, but are not limited to, sliding, biparting, and rolltop covers.
Cross-rod solvent cleaning machine
means a batch solvent cleaning machine in which parts baskets are suspended from “cross-rods” as they are moved through the machine. In a cross-rod cleaning machine, parts are loaded semi-continuously, and enter and exit the machine from a single portal.
Downtime mode
means the time period when a solvent cleaning machine is not cleaning parts and the sump heating coils, if present, are turned off.
Dwell
means the technique of holding parts within the freeboard area but above the vapor zone of the solvent cleaning machine. Dwell occurs after cleaning to allow solvent to drain from the parts or parts baskets back into the solvent cleaning machine.
Dwell time
means the required minimum length of time that a part must dwell, as determined by § 63.465(d).
Emissions
means halogenated hazardous air pollutant solvent consumed (i.e., halogenated hazardous air pollutant solvent added to the machine) minus the liquid halogenated hazardous air pollutant solvent removed from the machine and the halogenated hazardous air pollutant solvent removed from the machine in the solid waste.
Existing
means any solvent cleaning machine the construction or reconstruction of which was commenced on or before November 29, 1993. A machine, the construction or reconstruction of which was commenced on or before November 29, 1993, but that did not meet the definition of a solvent cleaning machine on December 2, 1994, because it did not use halogenated HAP solvent liquid or vapor covered under this subpart to remove soils, becomes an existing source when it commences to use such liquid or vapor. A solvent cleaning machine moved within a contiguous facility or to another facility
under the same ownership, constitutes an existing machine.
Freeboard area
means; for a batch cleaning machine, the area within the solvent cleaning machine that extends from the solvent/air interface to the top of the solvent cleaning machine; for an in-line cleaning machine, it is the area within the solvent cleaning machine that extends from the solvent/air interface to the bottom of the entrance or exit opening, whichever is lower.
Freeboard height
means; for a batch cleaning machine, the distance from the solvent/air interface, as measured during the idling mode, to the top of the cleaning machine; for an in-line cleaning machine, it is the distance from the solvent/air interface to the bottom of the entrance or exit opening, whichever is lower, as measured during the idling mode.
Freeboard ratio
means the ratio of the solvent cleaning machine freeboard height to the smaller interior dimension (length, width, or diameter) of the solvent cleaning machine.
Freeboard refrigeration device (also called a chiller)
means a set of secondary coils mounted in the freeboard area that carries a refrigerant or other chilled substance to provide a chilled air blanket above the solvent vapor. A primary condenser capable of meeting the requirements of § 63.463(e)(2)(i) is defined as both a freeboard refrigeration device and a primary condenser for the purposes of these standards.
Halogenated hazardous air pollutant solvent or halogenated HAP solvent
means methylene chloride (CAS No. 75-09-2), perchloroethylene (CAS No. 127-18-4), trichloroethylene (CAS No. 79-01-6), 1,1,1-trichloroethane (CAS No. 71-55-6), carbon tetrachloride (CAS No. 56-23-5), and chloroform (CAS No. 67-66-3).
Hoist
means a mechanical device that carries the parts basket and the parts to be cleaned from the loading area into the solvent cleaning machine and to the unloading area at a controlled speed. A hoist may be operated by controls or may be programmed to cycle parts through the cleaning cycle automatically.
Idling mode
means the time period when a solvent cleaning machine is not actively cleaning parts and the sump heating coils, if present, are turned on.
Idling-mode cover
means any cover or solvent cleaning machine design that allows the cover to shield the cleaning machine openings during the idling mode. A cover that meets this definition can also be used as a working-mode cover if that definition is also met.
Immersion cold cleaning machine
means a cold cleaning machine in which the parts are immersed in the solvent when being cleaned. A remote reservoir cold cleaning machine that is also an immersion cold cleaning machine is considered an immersion cold cleaning machine for purposes of this subpart.
In-line cleaning machine or continuous cleaning machine
means a solvent cleaning machine that uses an automated parts handling system, typically a conveyor, to automatically provide a continuous supply of parts to be cleaned. These units are fully enclosed except for the conveyor inlet and exit portals. In-line cleaning machines can be either cold or vapor cleaning machines.
Leak-proof coupling
means a threaded or other type of coupling that prevents solvents from leaking while filling or draining solvent to and from the solvent cleaning machine.
Lip exhaust
means a device installed at the top of the opening of a solvent cleaning machine that draws in air and solvent vapor from the freeboard area and ducts the air and vapor away from the solvent cleaning area.
Monthly reporting period
means any calendar month in which the owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine is required to calculate and report the solvent emissions from each solvent cleaning machine.
New
means any solvent cleaning machine the construction or reconstruction of which is commenced after November 29, 1993.
Open-top vapor cleaning machine
means a batch solvent cleaning machine that has its upper surface open to the air and boils solvent to create solvent vapor used to clean and/or dry parts.
Part
means any object that is cleaned in a solvent cleaning machine. Parts include, but are not limited to, discrete
parts, assemblies, sets of parts, and parts cleaned in a continuous web cleaning machine (i.e., continuous sheets of metal, film).
Primary condenser
means a series of circumferential cooling coils on a vapor cleaning machine through which a chilled substance is circulated or recirculated to provide continuous condensation of rising solvent vapors and, thereby, create a concentrated solvent vapor zone.
Reduced room draft
means decreasing the flow or movement of air across the top of the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine to meet the specifications of § 63.463(e)(2)(ii). Methods of achieving a reduced room draft include, but are not limited to, redirecting fans and/or air vents to not blow across the cleaning machine, moving the cleaning machine to a corner where there is less room draft, and constructing a partial or complete enclosure around the cleaning machine.
Remote reservoir cold cleaning machine
means any device in which liquid solvent is pumped to a sink-like work area that drains solvent back into an enclosed container while parts are being cleaned, allowing no solvent to pool in the work area.
Remote reservoir continuous web cleaning machine
means a continuous web cleaning machine in which there is no exposed solvent sump. In these units, the solvent is pumped from an enclosed chamber and is typically applied to the continuous web part through a nozzle or series of nozzles. The solvent then drains from the part and is collected and recycled through the machine, allowing no solvent to pool in the work or cleaning area.
Soils
means contaminants that are removed from the parts being cleaned. Soils include, but are not limited to, grease, oils, waxes, metal chips, carbon deposits, fluxes, and tars.
Solvent/air interface
means, for a vapor cleaning machine, the location of contact between the concentrated solvent vapor layer and the air. This location of contact is defined as the mid-line height of the primary condenser coils. For a cold cleaning machine, it is the location of contact between the liquid solvent and the air.
Solvent/air interface area
means; for a vapor cleaning machine, the surface area of the solvent vapor zone that is exposed to the air; for an in-line cleaning machine, it is the total surface area of all the sumps; for a cold cleaning machine, it is the surface area of the liquid solvent that is exposed to the air.
Solvent cleaning machine
means any device or piece of equipment that uses halogenated HAP solvent liquid or vapor to remove soils from the surfaces of materials. Types of solvent cleaning machines include, but are not limited to, batch vapor, in-line vapor, in-line cold, and batch cold solvent cleaning machines. Buckets, pails, and beakers with capacities of 7.6 liters (2 gallons) or less are not considered solvent cleaning machines.
Solvent vapor zone
means; for a vapor cleaning machine, the area that extends from the liquid solvent surface to the level that solvent vapor is condensed. This condensation level is defined as the midline height of the primary condenser coils.
Squeegee system
means a system that uses a series of pliable surfaces to remove the solvent film from the surfaces of the continuous web part. These pliable surfaces, called squeegees, are typically made of rubber or plastic media, and need to be periodically replaced to ensure continued proper function.
Sump
means the part of a solvent cleaning machine where the liquid solvent is located.
Sump heater coils
means the heating system on a cleaning machine that uses steam, electricity, or hot water to heat or boil the liquid solvent.
Superheated part technology
means a system that is part of the continuous web process that heats the continuous web part either directly or indirectly to a temperature above the boiling point of the cleaning solvent. This could include a process step, such as a tooling die that heats the part as it is processed, as long as the part remains superheated through the cleaning machine.
Superheated vapor system
means a system that heats the solvent vapor, either passively or actively, to a temperature above the solvent's boiling
point. Parts are held in the superheated vapor before exiting the machine to evaporate the liquid solvent on them. Hot vapor recycle is an example of a superheated vapor system.
Vapor cleaning machine
means a batch or in-line solvent cleaning machine that boils liquid solvent generating solvent vapor that is used as a part of the cleaning or drying cycle.
Water layer
means a layer of water that floats above the denser solvent and provides control of solvent emissions. In many cases, the solvent used in batch cold cleaning machines is sold containing the appropriate amount of water to create a water cover.
Working mode
means the time period when the solvent cleaning machine is actively cleaning parts.
Working-mode cover
means any cover or solvent cleaning machine design that allows the cover to shield the cleaning machine openings from outside air disturbances while parts are being cleaned in the cleaning machine. A cover that is used during the working mode is opened only during parts entry and removal. A cover that meets this definition can also be used as an idling-mode cover if that definition is also met.
[59 FR 61805, Dec. 2, 1994; 60 FR 29485, June 5, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 24751, May 5, 1998; 64 FR 67798, Dec. 3, 1999]
§ 63.462
Batch cold cleaning machine standards.
(a) Each owner or operator of an immersion batch cold solvent cleaning machine shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.
(1) Employ a tightly fitting cover that shall be closed at all times except during parts entry and removal, and a water layer at a minimum thickness of 2.5 centimeters (1.0 inch) on the surface of the solvent within the cleaning machine, or
(2) Employ a tightly fitting cover that shall be closed at all times except during parts entry and removal and a freeboard ratio of 0.75 or greater.
(b) Each owner or operator of a remote-reservoir batch cold solvent cleaning machine shall employ a tightly fitting cover over the solvent sump that shall be closed at all times except during the cleaning of parts.
(c) Each owner or operator of a batch cold solvent cleaning machine complying with paragraph (a)(2) or (b) of this section shall comply with the work and operational practice requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(9) of this section as applicable.
(1) All waste solvent shall be collected and stored in closed containers. The closed container may contain a device that allows pressure relief, but does not allow liquid solvent to drain from the container.
(2) If a flexible hose or flushing device is used, flushing shall be performed only within the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine.
(3) The owner or operator shall drain solvent cleaned parts for 15 seconds or until dripping has stopped, whichever is longer. Parts having cavities or blind holes shall be tipped or rotated while draining.
(4) The owner or operator shall ensure that the solvent level does not exceed the fill line.
(5) Spills during solvent transfer shall be wiped up immediately. The wipe rags shall be stored in covered containers meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(6) When an air- or pump-agitated solvent bath is used, the owner or operator shall ensure that the agitator is operated to produce a rolling motion of the solvent but not observable splashing against tank walls or parts being cleaned.
(7) The owner or operator shall ensure that, when the cover is open, the cold cleaning machine is not exposed to drafts greater than 40 meters per minute (132 feet per minute), as measured between 1 and 2 meters (3.3 and 6.6 feet) upwind and at the same elevation as the tank lip.
(8) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(9) of this section, sponges, fabric, wood, and paper products shall not be cleaned.
(9) The prohibition in paragraph (c)(8) of this section does not apply to the cleaning of porous materials that are part of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) laden transformers if those transformers are handled throughout the
cleaning process and disposed of in compliance with an approved PCB disposal permit issued in accordance with the Toxic Substances Control Act.
(d) Each owner or operator of a batch cold cleaning machine shall submit an initial notification report as described in § 63.468 (a) and (b) and a compliance report as described in § 63.468(c).
(e) Each owner or operator subject to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) through (8) of this section may request to use measures other than those described in these paragraphs. The owner or operator must demonstrate to the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) that the alternative measures will result in equivalent or better emissions control compared to the measures described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section. For example, storing solvent and solvent-laden materials in an enclosed area that is ventilated to a solvent recovery or destruction device may be considered an acceptable alternative.
[59 FR 61805, Dec. 2, 1994; 60 FR 29485, June 5, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 67799, Dec. 3, 1999; 68 FR 37349, June 23, 2003]
§ 63.463
Batch vapor and in-line cleaning machine standards.
(a) Except as provided in § 63.464 for all cleaning machines, each owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart shall ensure that each existing or new batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart conforms to the design requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section. The owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (g) or (h) of this section, as appropriate, in lieu of complying with this paragraph.
(1) Each cleaning machine shall be designed or operated to meet the control equipment or technique requirements in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) An idling and downtime mode cover, as described in § 63.463(d)(1)(i), that may be readily opened or closed, that completely covers the cleaning machine openings when in place, and is free of cracks, holes, and other defects.
(ii) A reduced room draft as described in § 63.463(e)(2)(ii).
(2) Each cleaning machine shall have a freeboard ratio of 0.75 or greater.
(3) Each cleaning machine shall have an automated parts handling system capable of moving parts or parts baskets at a speed of 3.4 meters per minute (11 feet per minute) or less from the initial loading of parts through removal of cleaned parts.
(4) Each vapor cleaning machine shall be equipped with a device that shuts off the sump heat if the sump liquid solvent level drops to the sump heater coils. This requirement does not apply to a vapor cleaning machine that uses steam to heat the solvent.
(5) Each vapor cleaning machine shall be equipped with a vapor level control device that shuts off sump heat if the vapor level in the vapor cleaning machine rises above the height of the primary condenser.
(6) Each vapor cleaning machine shall have a primary condenser.
(7) Each cleaning machine that uses a lip exhaust shall be designed and operated to route all collected solvent vapors through a properly operated and maintained carbon adsorber that meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(vii) of this section.
(b) Except as provided in § 63.464, each owner or operator of an existing or new batch vapor cleaning machine shall comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.
(1) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor cleaning machine with a solvent/air interface area of 1.21 square meters (13 square feet) or less shall comply with the requirements specified in either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) Employ one of the control combinations listed in table 1 of this subpart or other equivalent methods of control as determined using the procedure in § 63.469, equivalent methods of control.
Table 1—Control Combinations for Batch Vapor Solvent Cleaning Machines With a Solvent/Air Interface Area of 1.21 Square Meters (13 Square Feet) or Less
Option
Control combinations
1
Working-mode cover, freeboard ratio of 1.0, superheated vapor.
2
Freeboard refrigeration device, superheated vapor.
3
Working-mode cover, freeboard refrigeration device.
4
Reduced room draft, freeboard ratio of 1.0, superheated vapor.
5
Freeboard refrigeration device, reduced room draft.
6
Freeboard refrigeration device, freeboard ratio of 1.0.
7
Freeboard refrigeration device, dwell.
8
Reduced room draft, dwell, freeboard ratio of 1.0.
9
Freeboard refrigeration device, carbon adsorber.
10
Freeboard ratio of 1.0, superheated vapor, carbon adsorber.
Note:
Unlike most of the control techniques available for complying with this rule, carbon adsorbers are not considered to be a pollution prevention measure. Use of such units may impose additional cost and burden for a number of reasons. First, carbon adsorption units are generally more expensive than other controls listed in the options. Second, these units may present cross-media impacts such as effluent discharges if not properly operated and maintained, and spent carbon beds have to be disposed of as hazardous waste. When making decisions about what controls to install on halogenated solvent cleaning machines to meet the requirements of this rule, all of these factors should be weighed and pollution prevention measures are encouraged wherever possible.
(ii) Demonstrate that their solvent cleaning machine can achieve and maintain an idling emission limit of 0.22 kilograms per hour per square meter (0.045 pounds per hour per square foot) of solvent/air interface area as determined using the procedures in § 63.465(a) and appendix A to this part.
(2) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor cleaning machine with a solvent/air interface area greater than 1.21 square meters (13 square feet) shall comply with the requirements specified in either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) Employ one of the control combinations listed in table 2 of this subpart or other equivalent methods of control as determined using the procedure in § 63.469, equivalent methods of control.
Table 2—Control Combinations for Batch Vapor Solvent Cleaning Machines With a Solvent/Air Interface Area Greater than 1.21 Square Meters (13 Square Feet)
Option
Control combinations
1
Freeboard refrigeration device, freeboard ratio of 1.0, superheated vapor.
2
Dwell, freeboard refrigeration device, reduced room draft.
3
Working-mode cover, freeboard refrigeration device, superheated vapor.
4
Freeboard ratio of 1.0, reduced room draft, superheated vapor.
5
Freeboard refrigeration device, reduced room draft, superheated vapor.
6
Freeboard refrigeration device, reduced room draft, freeboard ratio of 1.0.
7
Freeboard refrigeration device, superheated vapor, carbon adsorber.
Note:
Unlike most of the control techniques available for complying with this rule, carbon adsorbers are not considered to be a pollution prevention measure. Use of such units may impose additional cost and burden for a number of reasons. First, carbon adsorption units are generally more expensive than other controls listed in the options. Second, these units may present cross-media impacts such as effluent discharges if not properly operated and maintained, and spent carbon beds have to be disposed of as hazardous waste. When making decisions about what controls to install on halogenated solvent cleaning machines to meet the requirements of this rule, all of these factors should be weighed and pollution prevention measures are encouraged wherever possible.
(ii) Demonstrate that their solvent cleaning machine can achieve and maintain an idling emission limit of 0.22 kilograms per hour per square meter (0.045 pounds per hour per square foot) of solvent/air interface area as determined using the procedures in § 63.465(a) and appendix A of this part.
(c) Except as provided in § 63.464 for all cleaning machines, each owner or operator of an in-line cleaning machine shall comply with paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section as appropriate. The owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (g) or (h) of this section, as appropriate, in lieu of complying with this paragraph.
(1) Each owner or operator of an existing in-line cleaning machine shall comply with the requirements specified in either paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) Employ one of the control combinations listed in table 3 of this subpart or other equivalent methods of control as determined using the procedure in § 63.469, equivalent methods of control.
Table 3—Control Combinations for Existing In-Line Solvent Cleaning Machines
Option
Control combinations
1
Superheated vapor, freeboard ratio of 1.0.
2
Freeboard refrigeration device, freeboard ratio of 1.0.
3
Dwell, freeboard refrigeration device.
4
Dwell, carbon adsorber.
Note:
Unlike most of the control techniques available for complying with this rule, carbon adsorbers are not considered to be a pollution prevention measure. Use of such units may impose additional cost and burden for a number of reasons. First, carbon adsorption units are generally more expensive than other controls listed in the options. Second, these units may present cross-media impacts such as effluent discharges if not properly operated and maintained, and spent carbon beds have to be disposed of as hazardous waste. When making decisions about what controls to install on halogenated solvent cleaning machines to meet the requirements of this rule, all of these factors should be weighed and pollution prevention measures are encouraged wherever possible.
(ii) Demonstrate that their solvent cleaning machine can achieve and maintain an idling emission limit of 0.10 kilograms per hour per square meter (0.021 pounds per hour per square foot) of solvent/air interface area as determined using the procedures in § 63.465(a) and appendix A to this part.
(2) Each owner or operator of a new in-line cleaning machine shall comply with the requirements specified in either paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (c)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) Employ one of the control combinations listed in table 4 of this subpart or other equivalent methods of control as determined using the procedure in § 63.469, equivalent methods of control section.
Table 4—Control Combinations for New In-Line Solvent Cleaning Machines
Option
Control combinations
1
Superheated vapor, freeboard refrigeration device.
2
Freeboard refrigeration device, carbon adsorber.
3
Superheated vapor, carbon adsorber.
Note:
Unlike most of the control techniques available for complying with this rule, carbon adsorbers are not considered to be a pollution prevention measure. Use of such units may impose additional cost and burden for a number of reasons. First, carbon adsorption units are generally more expensive than other controls listed in the options. Second, these units may present cross-media impacts such as effluent discharges if not properly operated and maintained, and spent carbon beds have to be disposed of as hazardous waste. When making decisions about what controls to install on halogenated solvent cleaning machines to meet the requirements of this rule, all of these factors should be weighed and pollution prevention measures are encouraged wherever possible.
(ii) Demonstrate that their solvent cleaning machine can achieve and maintain an idling emission limit of 0.10 kilograms per hour per square meter (0.021 pounds per hour per square foot) of solvent/air interface area as determined using the procedures in § 63.465(a) and appendix A to this part.
(d) Except as provided in § 63.464 for all cleaning machines, each owner or operator of an existing or new batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine shall meet all of the following required work and operational practices specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (12) of this section as applicable. The owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (g) or (h) of this section, as appropriate, in lieu of complying with this paragraph.
(1) Control air disturbances across the cleaning machine opening(s) by incorporating the control equipment or techniques in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) Cover(s) to each solvent cleaning machine shall be in place during the idling mode, and during the downtime mode unless either the solvent has been removed from the machine or maintenance or monitoring is being performed that requires the cover(s) to not be in place.
(ii) A reduced room draft as described in § 63.463(e)(2)(ii).
(2) The parts baskets or the parts being cleaned in an open-top batch vapor cleaning machine shall not occupy more than 50 percent of the solvent/air interface area unless the parts baskets or parts are introduced at a speed of 0.9 meters per minute (3 feet per minute) or less.
(3) Any spraying operations shall be done within the vapor zone or within a section of the solvent cleaning machine that is not directly exposed to the ambient air (i.e., a baffled or enclosed area of the solvent cleaning machine).
(4) Parts shall be oriented so that the solvent drains from them freely. Parts having cavities or blind holes shall be tipped or rotated before being removed from any solvent cleaning machine unless an equally effective approach has been approved by the Administrator.
(5) Parts baskets or parts shall not be removed from any solvent cleaning machine until dripping has stopped.
(6) During startup of each vapor cleaning machine, the primary condenser shall be turned on before the sump heater.
(7) During shutdown of each vapor cleaning machine, the sump heater shall be turned off and the solvent vapor layer allowed to collapse before the primary condenser is turned off.
(8) When solvent is added or drained from any solvent cleaning machine, the solvent shall be transferred using threaded or other leakproof couplings and the end of the pipe in the solvent sump shall be located beneath the liquid solvent surface.
(9) Each solvent cleaning machine and associated controls shall be maintained as recommended by the manufacturers of the equipment or using alternative maintenance practices that have been demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction to achieve the same or better results as those recommended by the manufacturer.
(10) Each operator of a solvent cleaning machine shall complete and pass the applicable sections of the test of solvent cleaning procedures in appendix A to this part if requested during an inspection by the Administrator.
(11) Waste solvent, still bottoms, and sump bottoms shall be collected and stored in closed containers. The closed containers may contain a device that would allow pressure relief, but would not allow liquid solvent to drain from the container.
(12) Sponges, fabric, wood, and paper products shall not be cleaned.
(e) Each owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine complying with paragraph (b), (c), (g), or (h) of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Conduct monitoring of each control device used to comply with § 63.463 of this subpart as provided in § 63.466.
(2) Determine during each monitoring period whether each control device used to comply with these standards meets the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (xi) of this section.
(i) If a freeboard refrigeration device is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall ensure that the chilled air blanket temperature (in °F), measured at the center of the air blanket, is no greater than 30 percent of the solvent's boiling point.
(ii) If a reduced room draft is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(A) and (e)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
(A) Ensure that the flow or movement of air across the top of the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine or within the solvent cleaning machine enclosure does not exceed 15.2 meters per minute (50 feet per minute) at any time as measured using the procedures in § 63.466(d).
(B) Establish and maintain the operating conditions under which the wind speed was demonstrated to be 15.2 meters per minute (50 feet per minute) or less as described in § 63.466(d).
(iii) If a working-mode cover is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii)(A) and (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section.
(A) Ensure that the cover opens only for part entrance and removal and completely covers the cleaning machine openings when closed.
(B) Ensure that the working-mode cover is maintained free of cracks, holes, and other defects.
(iv) If an idling-mode cover is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(iv)(A) and (e)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.
(A) Ensure that the cover is in place whenever parts are not in the solvent cleaning machine and completely covers the cleaning machine openings when in place.
(B) Ensure that the idling-mode cover is maintained free of cracks, holes, and other defects.
(v) If a dwell is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(v)(A) and (e)(2)(v)(B) of this section.
(A) Determine the appropriate dwell time for each type of part or parts basket, or determine the maximum dwell time using the most complex part type
or parts basket, as described in § 63.465(d).
(B) Ensure that, after cleaning, each part is held in the solvent cleaning machine freeboard area above the vapor zone for the dwell time determined for that particular part or parts basket, or for the maximum dwell time determined using the most complex part type or parts basket.
(vi) If a superheated vapor system is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(vi)(A) through (e)(2)(vi)(C) of this section.
(A) Ensure that the temperature of the solvent vapor at the center of the superheated vapor zone is at least 10 °F above the solvent's boiling point.
(B) Ensure that the manufacturer's specifications for determining the minimum proper dwell time within the superheated vapor system is followed.
(C) Ensure that parts remain within the superheated vapor for at least the minimum proper dwell time.
(vii) If a carbon adsorber in conjunction with a lip exhaust or other exhaust internal to the cleaning machine is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall comply with the following requirements:
(A) Ensure that the concentration of organic solvent in the exhaust from this device does not exceed 100 parts per million of any halogenated HAP compound as measured using the procedure in § 63.466(e). If the halogenated HAP solvent concentration in the carbon adsorber exhaust exceeds 100 parts per million, the owner or operator shall adjust the desorption schedule or replace the disposable canister, if not a regenerative system, so that the exhaust concentration of halogenated HAP solvent is brought below 100 parts per million.
(B) Ensure that the carbon adsorber bed is not bypassed during desorption.
(C) Ensure that the lip exhaust is located above the solvent cleaning machine cover so that the cover closes below the lip exhaust level.
(viii) If a superheated part system is used to comply with the standards for continuous web cleaning machines in paragraph (g) of this section, the owner or operator shall ensure that the temperature of the continuous web part is at least 10 degrees Fahrenheit above the solvent boiling point while the part is traveling through the cleaning machine.
(ix) If a squeegee system is used to comply with the continuous web cleaning requirements of paragraph (g)(3)(iii) or (h)(2)(i) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the following requirements.
(A) Determine the appropriate maximum product throughput for the squeegees used in the squeegee system, as described in § 63.465(f).
(B) Conduct the weekly monitoring required by § 63.466(a)(3). Record the results required by § 63.467(a)(6).
(C) Calculate the total amount of continuous web product processed since the squeegees were replaced and compare to the maximum product throughput for the squeegees.
(D) Ensure squeegees are replaced at or before the maximum product throughput is attained.
(E) Redetermine the maximum product throughput for the squeegees if any solvent film is visible on the continuous web part immediately after it exits the cleaning machine.
(x) If an air knife system is used to comply with the continuous web cleaning requirements of paragraph (g)(3)(iii) or (h)(2)(i) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the following requirements.
(A) Determine the air knife parameter and parameter value that demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the air knife is properly operating. An air knife is properly operating if no visible solvent film remains on the continuous web part after it exits the cleaning machine.
(B) Maintain the selected air knife parameter value at the level determined in paragraph (a) of this section.
(C) Conduct the weekly monitoring required by § 63.466(a)(3).
(D) Redetermine the proper air knife parameter value if any solvent film is visible on the continuous web part immediately after it exits the cleaning machine.
(xi) If a combination squeegee and air knife system is used to comply with the continuous web cleaning requirements of paragraph (g)(3)(iii) or (h)(2)(i)
of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the following requirements.
(A) Determine the system parameter and value that demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the system is properly operating.
(B) Maintain the selected parameter value at the level determined in paragraph (a) of this section.
(C) Conduct the weekly monitoring required by § 63.466(a)(3).
(D) Redetermine the proper parameter value if any solvent film is visible on the continuous web part immediately after it exits the cleaning machine.
(3) If any of the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section are not met, determine whether an exceedance has occurred using the criteria in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (e)(3)(ii) of this section.
(i) An exceedance has occurred if the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(B), (e)(2)(iii)(A), (e)(2)(iv)(A), (e)(2)(v), (e)(2)(vi)(B), (e)(2)(vi)(C), (e)(2)(vii)(B), or (e)(2)(vii)(C) of this section have not been met.
(ii) An exceedance has occurred if the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(i), (e)(2)(ii)(A), (e)(2)(iii)(B), (e)(2)(iv)(B), (e)(2)(vi)(A), or (e)(2)(vii)(A) of this section have not been met and are not corrected within 15 days of detection. Adjustments or repairs shall be made to the solvent cleaning system or control device to reestablish required levels. The parameter must be remeasured immediately upon adjustment or repair and demonstrated to be within required limits.
(4) The owner or operator shall report all exceedances and all corrections and adjustments made to avoid an exceedance as specified in § 63.468(h).
(f) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the idling emission limit standards in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(2)(ii) of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(5) of this section.
(1) Conduct an initial performance test to comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) Demonstrate compliance with the applicable idling emission limit.
(ii) Establish parameters that will be monitored to demonstrate compliance. If a control device is used that is listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, then the requirements for that control device as listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section shall be used unless the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that an alternative strategy is equally effective.
(2) Conduct the periodic monitoring of the parameters used to demonstrate compliance as described in § 63.466(f).
(3) Operate the solvent cleaning machine within parameters identified in the initial performance test.
(4) If any of the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section are not met, determine whether an exceedance has occurred using the criteria in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) and (f)(4)(ii) of this section.
(i) If using a control listed in paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the appropriate parameter values in paragraph (e)(2) and the exceedance delineations in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (e)(3)(ii) of this section.
(ii) If using a control not listed in paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall indicate whether the exceedance of the parameters that are monitored to determine the proper functioning of this control would be classified as an immediate exceedance or whether a 15 day repair period would be allowed. This information must be submitted to the Administrator for approval.
(5) The owner or operator shall report all exceedances and all corrections and adjustments made to avoid an exceedance as specified in § 63.468(h).
(g) Except as provided in § 63.464 and in paragraph (h) of this section for remote reservoir continuous web cleaning machines, each owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine shall comply with paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section for each continuous web cleaning machine.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, install, maintain, and operate one of the following control combinations on each continuous web cleaning machine.
(i) For each existing continuous web cleaning machine, the following control combinations are allowed:
(A) Superheated vapor or superheated part technology, and a freeboard ratio of 1.0 or greater.
(B) Freeboard refrigeration device and a freeboard ratio of 1.0 or greater.
(C) Carbon adsorption system meeting the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(vii) of this section.
(ii) For each new continuous web cleaning machine, the following control combinations are allowed:
(A) Superheated vapor or superheated part technology, and a freeboard refrigeration device.
(B) A freeboard refrigeration device and a carbon adsorber meeting the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(vii) of this section.
(C) Superheated vapor or superheated part technology, and a carbon adsorber meeting the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(vii) of this section.
(2) If a carbon adsorber system can be demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction to have an overall solvent control efficiency (i.e., capture efficiency removal efficiency) of 70 percent or greater, this system is equivalent to the options in paragraph (g) of this section.
(3) In lieu of complying with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine shall comply with the following provisions:
(i) Each cleaning machine shall meet one of the following control equipment or technique requirements:
(A) An idling and downtime mode cover, as described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, that may be readily opened or closed; that completely covers the cleaning machine openings when in place; and is free of cracks, holes, and other defects. A continuous web part that completely occupies an entry or exit port when the machine is idle is considered to meet this requirement.
(B) A reduced room draft as described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(C) Gasketed or leakproof doors that separate both the continuous web part feed reel and take-up reel from the room atmosphere if the doors are checked according to the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section.
(D) A cleaning machine that is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction to be under negative pressure during idling and downtime and is vented to a carbon adsorption system that meets the requirements of either paragraph (e)(2)(vii) of this section or paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(ii) Each continuous web cleaning machine shall have a freeboard ratio of 0.75 or greater unless that cleaning machine is a remote reservoir continuous web cleaning machine.
(iii) Each cleaning machine shall have an automated parts handling system capable of moving parts or parts baskets at a speed of 3.4 meters per minute (11 feet per minute) or less from the initial loading of parts through removal of cleaned parts, unless the cleaning machine is a continuous web cleaning machine that has a squeegee system or air knife system installed, maintained, and operated on the continuous web cleaning machine meeting the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(iv) Each vapor cleaning machine shall be equipped with a device that shuts off the sump heat if the sump liquid solvent level drops to the sump heater coils. This requirement does not apply to a vapor cleaning machine that uses steam to heat the solvent.
(v) Each vapor cleaning machine shall be equipped with a vapor level control device that shuts off sump heat if the vapor level in the vapor cleaning machine rises above the height of the primary condenser.
(vi) Each vapor cleaning machine shall have a primary condenser.
(vii) Each cleaning machine that uses a lip exhaust or any other exhaust within the solvent cleaning machine shall be designed and operated to route all collected solvent vapors through a properly operated and maintained carbon adsorber that meets the requirements of either paragraph (e)(2)(vii) or (g)(2) of this section.
(4) In lieu of complying with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine shall comply with the following provisions:
(i) Control air disturbances across the cleaning machine opening(s) by incorporating one of the following control equipment or techniques:
(A) Cover(s) to each solvent cleaning machine shall be in place during the idling mode and during the downtime mode unless either the solvent has been removed from the machine or maintenance or monitoring is being performed that requires the cover(s) in place. A continuous web part that completely occupies an entry or exit port when the machine is idle is considered to meet this requirement.
(B) A reduced room draft as described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(C) Gasketed or leakproof doors or covers that separate both the continuous web part feed reel and take-up reel from the room atmosphere if the doors are checked according to the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section.
(D) A cleaning machine that is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction to be under negative pressure during idling and downtime and is vented to a carbon adsorption system that meets either the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(vii) of this section or paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(ii) Any spraying operations shall be conducted in a section of the solvent cleaning machine that is not directly exposed to the ambient air (i.e., a baffled or enclosed area of the solvent cleaning machine) or within a machine having a door or cover that meets the requirements of paragraph (g)(4)(i)(C) of this section.
(iii) During startup of each vapor cleaning machine, the primary condenser shall be turned on before the sump heater.
(iv) During shutdown of each vapor cleaning machine, the sump heater shall be turned off and the solvent vapor layer allowed to collapse before the primary condenser is turned off.
(v) When solvent is added or drained from any solvent cleaning machine, the solvent shall be transferred using threaded or other leakproof couplings, and the end of the pipe in the solvent sump shall be located beneath the liquid solvent surface.
(vi) Each solvent cleaning machine and associated controls shall be maintained as recommended by the manufacturers of the equipment or using alternative maintenance practices that have been demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction to achieve the same or better results as those recommended by the manufacturer.
(vii) Waste solvent, still bottoms, sump bottoms, and waste absorbent materials used in the cleaning process for continuous web cleaning machines shall be collected and stored in waste containers. The closed containers may contain a device that would allow pressure relief, but would not allow liquid solvent to drain from the container.
(viii) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(4)(ix) of this section, sponges, fabric, wood, and paper products shall not be cleaned.
(ix) The prohibition in paragraph (g)(4)(viii) of this section does not apply to absorbent materials that are used as part of the cleaning process of continuous web cleaning machines, including rollers and roller covers.
(h) Except as provided in § 63.464, each owner or operator of a remote reservoir continuous web cleaning machine shall comply with paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, install, maintain, and operate one of the following controls on each new remote reservoir continuous web cleaning machine.
(i) Superheated vapor or superheated part technology.
(ii) A carbon adsorber meeting the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(vii) of this section.
(iii) If a carbon adsorber system can be demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction to have an overall solvent control efficiency (i.e., capture efficiency removal efficiency) of 70 percent or greater, this system is equivalent to the options in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and (h)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2) In lieu of complying with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator of a remote reservoir continuous web cleaning machine shall comply with the following provisions:
(i) Each cleaning machine shall have an automated parts handling system capable of moving parts or parts baskets at a speed of 3.4 meters per minute
(11 feet per minute) or less from the initial loading of parts through removal of cleaned parts, unless the cleaning machine is a continuous web cleaning machine that has a squeegee system or air knife system installed, maintained, and operated on the continuous web cleaning machine meeting the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(ii) Each vapor cleaning machine shall be equipped with a device that shuts off the sump heat if the sump liquid solvent level drops to the sump heater coils.
(iii) Each vapor cleaning machine shall be equipped with a vapor level control device that shuts off sump heat if the vapor level in the vapor cleaning machine rises above the height of the primary condenser.
(iv) Each vapor cleaning machine shall have a primary condenser.
(v) Each cleaning machine that uses a lip exhaust or any other exhaust within the solvent cleaning machine shall be designed and operated to route all collected solvent vapors through a properly operated and maintained carbon adsorber that meets the requirements of either paragraph (e)(2)(vii) or (g)(2) of this section.
(3) In lieu of complying with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator of a remote reservoir continuous web cleaning machine shall comply with the following provisions:
(i) Any spraying operations shall be conducted in a section of the solvent cleaning machine that is not directly exposed to the ambient air (i.e., a baffled or enclosed area of the solvent cleaning machine) or within a machine having a door or cover that meets the requirements of paragraph (g)(4)(i)(C) of this section.
(ii) During startup of each vapor cleaning machine, the primary condenser shall be turned on before the sump heater.
(iii) During shutdown of each vapor cleaning machine, the sump heater shall be turned off and the solvent vapor layer allowed to collapse before the primary condenser is turned off.
(iv) When solvent is added or drained from any solvent cleaning machine, the solvent shall be transferred using threaded or other leakproof couplings, and the end of the pipe in the solvent sump shall be located beneath the liquid solvent surface.
(v) Each solvent cleaning machine and associated controls shall be maintained as recommended by the manufacturers of the equipment or using alternative maintenance practices that have been demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction to achieve the same or better results as those recommended by the manufacturer.
(vi) Waste solvent, still bottoms, sump bottoms, and waste absorbent materials used in the cleaning process for continuous web cleaning machines shall be collected and stored in waste containers. The closed containers may contain a device that would allow pressure relief, but would not allow liquid solvent to drain from the container.
(vii) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(3)(viii) of this section, sponges, fabric, wood, and paper products shall not be cleaned.
(viii) The prohibition in paragraph (h)(3)(vii) of this section does not apply to absorbent materials that are used as part of the cleaning process of continuous web cleaning machines, including rollers and roller covers.
[59 FR 61805, Dec. 2, 1994; 60 FR 29485, June 5, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 67799, Dec. 3, 1999; 65 FR 54422, Sept. 8, 2000; 68 FR 37349, June 23, 2003]
§ 63.464
Alternative standards.
(a) As an alternative to meeting the requirements in § 63.463, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine can elect to comply with the requirements of § 63.464. An owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine who elects to comply with § 63.464 shall comply with the requirements specified in either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.
(1) If the cleaning machine has a solvent/air interface, as defined in § 63.461, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) Maintain a log of solvent additions and deletions for each solvent cleaning machine.
(ii) Ensure that the emissions from each solvent cleaning machine are equal to or less than the applicable emission limit presented in table 5 of this subpart as determined using the procedures in § 63.465(b) and (c).
Table 5—Emission Limits for Batch Vapor and In-Line Solvent Cleaning Machines With a Solvent/Air Interface
Solvent cleaning machine
3-month rolling average monthly emission limit (kilograms/square meters/month)
Batch vapor solvent cleaning machines
150
Existing in-line solvent cleaning machines
153
New in-line solvent cleaning machines
99
(2) If the cleaning machine is a batch vapor cleaning machine and does not have a solvent/air interface, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) Maintain a log of solvent additions and deletions for each solvent cleaning machine.
(ii) Ensure that the emissions from each solvent cleaning machine are equal to or less than the appropriate limits as described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
(A) For cleaning machines with a cleaning capacity, as reported in § 63.468(d), that is less than or equal to 2.95 cubic meters, the emission limit shall be determined using table 6 or equation 1. If using table 6, and the cleaning capacity of the cleaning machine falls between two cleaning capacity sizes, then the lower of the two emission limits applies.
(B) For cleaning machines with a cleaning capacity as reported in § 63.468(d), that is greater than 2.95 cubic meters, the emission limit shall be determined using equation 1.
EL = 330 * (Vol)
0.6
(1)
where:
EL = the 3-month rolling average monthly emission limit (kilograms/month).
Table 6—Emission Limits for Cleaning Machines Without a Solvent/Air Interface
Cleaning capacity (cubic meters)
3-month rolling average monthly emission limit (kilograms/month)
0.00
0
0.05
55
0.10
83
0.15
106
0.20
126
0.25
144
0.30
160
0.35
176
0.40
190
0.45
204
0.50
218
0.55
231
0.60
243
0.65
255
0.70
266
0.75
278
0.80
289
0.85
299
0.90
310
0.95
320
1.00
330
1.05
340
1.10
349
1.15
359
1.20
368
1.25
377
1.30
386
1.35
395
1.40
404
1.45
412
1.50
421
1.55
429
1.60
438
1.65
446
1.70
454
1.75
462
1.80
470
1.85
477
1.90
485
1.95
493
2.00
500
2.05
508
2.10
515
2.15
522
2.20
530
2.25
537
2.30
544
2.35
551
2.40
558
2.45
565
2.50
572
2.55
579
2.60
585
2.65
592
2.70
599
2.75
605
2.80
612
2.85
619
2.90
625
2.95
632
Vol = the cleaning capacity of the solvent cleaning machine (cubic meters).
(b) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with § 63.464(a) shall demonstrate compliance with the applicable 3-month rolling average
monthly emission limit on a monthly basis as described in § 63.465(b) and (c).
(c) If the applicable 3-month rolling average emission limit is not met, an exceedance has occurred. All exceedances shall be reported as required in § 63.468(h).
(d) As an alternative to meeting the requirements in § 63.463, each owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine can demonstrate an overall cleaning system control efficiency of 70 percent or greater using the procedures in § 63.465(g). This demonstration can be made for either a single cleaning machine or for a solvent cleaning system that contains one or more cleaning machines and ancillary equipment, such as storage tanks and distillation units. If the demonstration is made for a cleaning system, the facility must identify any modifications required to the procedures in § 63.465(g) and they must be approved by the Administrator.
[59 FR 61805, Dec. 2, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 67801, Dec. 3, 1999; 65 FR 54423, Sept. 8, 2000]
§ 63.465
Test methods.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section for continuous web cleaning machines, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with an idling emission limit standard in § 63.463(b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(2)(ii) shall determine the idling emission rate of the solvent cleaning machine using Reference Method 307 in appendix A of this part.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section for continuous web cleaning machines, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with § 63.464 shall, on the first operating day of every month ensure that the solvent cleaning machine system contains only clean liquid solvent. This includes, but is not limited to, fresh unused solvent, recycled solvent, and used solvent that has been cleaned of soils. A fill line must be indicated during the first month the measurements are made. The solvent level within the machine must be returned to the same fill-line each month, immediately prior to calculating monthly emissions as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. The solvent cleaning machine does not have to be emptied and filled with fresh unused solvent prior to the calculations.
(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section for continuous web cleaning machines, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with § 63.464 shall, on the first operating day of the month, comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Using the records of all solvent additions and deletions for the previous monthly reporting period required under § 63.464(a), determine solvent emissions (Ei) using equation 2 for cleaning machines with a solvent/air interface and equation 3 for cleaning machines without a solvent/air interface:
ER02DE94.000
ER02DE94.001
where:
E
i
= the total halogenated HAP solvent emissions from the solvent cleaning machine during the most recent monthly reporting period i, (kilograms of solvent per square meter of solvent/air interface area per month).
E
n
= the total halogenated HAP solvent emissions from the solvent cleaning machine during the most recent monthly reporting period i, (kilograms of solvent per month).
SA
i
= the total amount of halogenated HAP liquid solvent added to the solvent cleaning machine during the most recent monthly reporting period i, (kilograms of solvent per month).
LSR
i
= the total amount of halogenated HAP liquid solvent removed from the solvent cleaning machine during the most recent monthly reporting period i, (kilograms of solvent per month).
SSR
i
= the total amount of halogenated HAP solvent removed from the solvent cleaning machine in solid waste, obtained as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, during the most recent monthly reporting period i, (kilograms of solvent per month).
AREA
i
= the solvent/air interface area of the solvent cleaning machine (square meters).
(2) Determine SSR
i
using the method specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (c)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) From tests conducted using EPA reference method 25d.
(ii) By engineering calculations included in the compliance report.
(3) Determine the monthly rolling average, EA, for the 3-month period ending with the most recent reporting period using equation 4 for cleaning machines with a solvent/air interface or equation 5 for cleaning machines without a solvent/air interface:
ER02DE94.002
ER02DE94.003
Where:
EA
i
= the average halogenated HAP solvent emissions over the preceding 3 monthly reporting periods, (kilograms of solvent per square meter of solvent/air interface area per month).
EA
n
= the average halogenated HAP solvent emissions over the preceding 3 monthly reporting periods (kilograms of solvent per month).
E
i
= halogenated HAP solvent emissions for each month (j) for the most recent 3 monthly reporting periods (kilograms of solvent per square meter of solvent/air interface area).
E
n
= halogenated HAP solvent emissions for each month (j) for the most recent 3 monthly reporting periods (kilograms of solvent per month).
j = 1 = the most recent monthly reporting period.
j = 2 = the monthly reporting period immediately prior to j = 1.
j = 3 = the monthly reporting period immediately prior to j = 2.
(d) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine using a dwell to comply with § 63.463 shall determine the appropriate dwell time for each part or parts basket using the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.
(1) Determine the amount of time for the part or parts basket to cease dripping once placed in the vapor zone. The part or parts basket used for this determination must be at room temperature before being placed in the vapor zone.
(2) The proper dwell time for parts to remain in the freeboard area above the vapor zone is no less than 35 percent of the time determined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(e) An owner or operator of a source shall determine their potential to emit from all solvent cleaning operations, using the procedures described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section. A facility's total potential to emit is the sum of the HAP emissions from all solvent cleaning operations, plus all HAP emissions from other sources within the facility.
(1) Determine the potential to emit for each individual solvent cleaning using equation 6.
PTE
i
= H
i
× W
i
× SAI
i
(6)
Where:
PTE
i
= the potential to emit for solvent cleaning machine i (kilograms of solvent per year).
H
i
= hours of operation for solvent cleaning machine i (hours per year).
= 8760 hours per year, unless otherwise restricted by a Federally enforceable requirement.
W
i
= the working mode uncontrolled emission rate (kilograms per square meter per hour).
= 1.95 kilograms per square meter per hour for batch vapor and cold cleaning machines.
= 1.12 kilograms per square meter per hour for in-line cleaning machines.
SAI
i
= solvent/air interface area of solvent cleaning machine i (square meters). Section 63.461 defines the solvent/air interface area for those machines that have a solvent/air interface. Cleaning machines that do not have a solvent/air interface shall calculate a solvent/air interface area using the procedure in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(2) Cleaning machines that do not have a solvent/air interface shall calculate a solvent/air interface area using equation 7.
SAI = 2.20 * (Vol)
0.6
(7)
Where:
SAI = the solvent/air interface area (square meters).
Vol = the cleaning capacity of the solvent cleaning machine (cubic meters).
(3) Sum the PTE
i
for all solvent cleaning operations to obtain the total potential to emit for solvent cleaning operations at the facility.
(f) Each owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine using a squeegee system to comply with § 63.463(g)(3) shall determine the maximum product throughput using the method in this paragraph. The maximum product throughput for each squeegee type used at a facility must be determined prior to December 2, 1999, the compliance date for these units.
(1) Conduct daily visual inspections of the continuous web part. This monitoring shall be conducted at the point where the continuous web part exits the squeegee system. It is not necessary for the squeegees to be new at the time monitoring is begun if the following two conditions are met:
(i) The continuous web part leaving the squeegee system has no visible solvent film.
(ii) The amount of continuous web that has been processed through the squeegees since the last replacement is known.
(2) Continue daily monitoring until a visible solvent film is noted on the continuous web part.
(3) Determine the length of continuous web product that has been cleaned using the squeegee since it was installed.
(4) The maximum product throughput for the purposes of this rule is equal to the time it takes to clean 95 percent of the length of product determined in paragraph (f)(3) of this section. This time period, in days, may vary depending on the amount of continuous web product cleaned each day.
(g) Each owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine demonstrating compliance with the alternative standard of § 63.464(d) shall, on the first day of every month, ensure that the solvent cleaning machine contains only clean liquid solvent. This includes, but is not limited to, fresh unused solvent, recycled solvent, and used solvent that has been cleaned of soils. A fill-line must be indicated during the first month the measurements are made. The solvent level with the machine must be returned to the same fill-line each month, immediately prior to calculating overall cleaning system control efficiency emissions as specified in paragraph (h) in this section. The solvent cleaning machine does not need to be emptied and filled with fresh unused solvent prior to the calculation.
(h) Each owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machines complying with § 63.464(d) shall, on the first operating day of the month, comply with the following requirements.
(1) Using the records of all solvent additions, solvent deletions, and solvent recovered from the carbon adsorption system for the previous monthly reporting period required under § 63.467(e), determine the overall cleaning system control efficiency (E
o
) using Equation 8 of this section as follows:
ER08SE00.003
Where:
E
o
= overall cleaning system control efficiency.
R
i
= the total amount of halogenated HAP liquid solvent recovered from the carbon adsorption system and recycled to the solvent cleaning system during the most recent monthly reporting period, i, (kilograms of solvent per month).
Sa
i
= the total amount of halogenated HAP liquid solvent added to the solvent cleaning system during the most recent monthly reporting period, i, (kilograms of solvent per month).
SSR
i
= the total amount of halogenated HAP solvent removed from the solvent cleaning system in solid waste, obtained as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, during the most recent monthly reporting period, i, (kilograms of solvent per month).
[59 FR 61805, Dec. 2, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 67801, Dec. 3, 1999; 65 FR 54423, Sept. 8, 2000]
§ 63.466
Monitoring procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the equipment standards in § 63.463(b)(1)(i), (b)(2)(i), (c)(1)(i), (c)(2)(i), (g)(1), or (g)(2) shall conduct monitoring and record the results on a weekly basis for the control devices, as appropriate, specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) If a freeboard refrigeration device is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall use a thermometer or thermocouple to measure the temperature at the center of the air blanket during the idling mode.
(2) If a superheated vapor system is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall use a thermometer or thermocouple to measure the temperature at the center of the superheated solvent vapor zone while the solvent cleaning machine is in the idling mode.
(3) If a squeegee system, air knife system, or combination squeegee and air knife system is used to comply with the requirements of § 63.463(g) or (h), the owner or operator shall visually inspect the continuous web part exiting the solvent cleaning machine to ensure that no solvent film is visible on the part.
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, if a superheated part system is used to comply with the requirements of § 63.463(g) or (h), the owner or operator shall use a thermometer, thermocouple, or other temperature measurement device to measure the temperature of the continuous web part while it is in the solvent cleaning machine. This measurement can also be taken at the exit of the solvent cleaning machine.
(5) As an alternative to complying with paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the owner or operator can provide data, sufficient to satisfy the Administrator, that demonstrate that the part temperature remains above the boiling point of the solvent at all times that the part is within the continuous web solvent cleaning machine. This data could include design and operating conditions such as information supporting any exothermic reaction inherent in the processing.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the equipment standards of § 63.463 (b)(1)(i), (b)(2)(i), (c)(1)(i), or (c)(2)(i) shall conduct monitoring and record the results on a monthly basis for the control devices, as appropriate, specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(1) If a cover (working-mode, downtime-mode, and/or idling-mode cover) is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall conduct a visual inspection to determine if the cover is opening and closing properly, completely covers the cleaning machine openings when closed, and is free of cracks, holes, and other defects.
(2) If a dwell is used, the owner or operator shall determine the actual dwell time by measuring the period of time that parts are held within the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine after cleaning.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the equipment or idling standards in § 63.463 shall monitor the hoist speed as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall determine the hoist speed by measuring the time it takes for the hoist to travel a measured distance. The speed is equal to the distance in meters divided by the time in minutes (meters per minute).
(2) The monitoring shall be conducted monthly. If after the first year, no exceedances of the hoist speed are measured, the owner or operator may begin monitoring the hoist speed quarterly.
(3) If an exceedance of the hoist speed occurs during quarterly monitoring, the monitoring frequency returns to monthly until another year of compliance without an exceedance is demonstrated.
(4) If an owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction in the initial compliance report that the hoist cannot exceed a speed of 3.4 meters per minute (11 feet per minute), the required monitoring frequency is quarterly, including during the first year of compliance.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the equipment standards in § 63.463 (b)(1)(i),
(b)(2)(i), (c)(1)(i), or (c)(2)(i) using a reduced room draft shall conduct monitoring and record the results as specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section.
(1) If the reduced room draft is maintained by controlling room parameters (i.e., redirecting fans, closing doors and windows, etc.), the owner or operator shall conduct an initial monitoring test of the windspeed and of room parameters, quarterly monitoring of windspeed, and weekly monitoring of room parameters as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) Measure the windspeed within 6 inches above the top of the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine using the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) through (d)(1)(i)(D) of this section.
(A) Determine the direction of the wind current by slowly rotating a velometer or similar device until the maximum speed is located.
(B) Orient a velometer in the direction of the wind current at each of the four corners of the machine.
(C) Record the reading for each corner.
(D) Average the values obtained at each corner and record the average wind speed.
(ii) Monitor on a weekly basis the room parameters established during the initial compliance test that are used to achieve the reduced room draft.
(2) If an enclosure (full or partial) is used to achieve a reduced room draft, the owner or operator shall conduct an initial monitoring test and, thereafter, monthly monitoring tests of the windspeed within the enclosure using the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section and a monthly visual inspection of the enclosure to determine if it is free of cracks, holes and other defects.
(i) Determine the direction of the wind current in the enclosure by slowly rotating a velometer inside the entrance to the enclosure until the maximum speed is located.
(ii) Record the maximum wind speed.
(e) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator using a carbon adsorber to comply with this subpart shall measure and record the concentration of halogenated HAP solvent in the exhaust of the carbon adsorber weekly with a colorimetric detector tube. This test shall be conducted while the solvent cleaning machine is in the working mode and is venting to the carbon adsorber. The exhaust concentration shall be determined using the procedure specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section.
(1) Use a colorimetric detector tube designed to measure a concentration of 100 parts per million by volume of solvent in air to an accuracy of ±25 parts per million by volume.
(2) Use the colorimetric detector tube according to the manufacturer's instructions.
(3) Provide a sampling port for monitoring within the exhaust outlet of the carbon adsorber that is easily accessible and located at least 8 stack or duct diameters downstream from any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, contraction, or outlet; downstream from no other inlet; and 2 stack or duct diameters upstream from any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, contraction, inlet or outlet.
(f) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the idling emission limit standards of § 63.463 (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(2)(ii) shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.
(1) If using controls listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the monitoring frequency requirements in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(2) If using controls not listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall establish the monitoring frequency for each control and submit it to the Administrator for approval in the initial test report.
(g) Each owner or operator using a control device listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section can use alternative monitoring procedures approved by the Administrator.
[59 FR 61805, Dec. 2, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 67802, Dec. 3, 1999]
§ 63.467
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.463 shall maintain records in written or electronic form specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section for the lifetime of the machine.
(1) Owner's manuals, or if not available, written maintenance and operating procedures, for the solvent cleaning machine and control equipment.
(2) The date of installation for the solvent cleaning machine and all of its control devices. If the exact date for installation is not known, a letter certifying that the cleaning machine and its control devices were installed prior to, or on, November 29, 1993, or after November 29, 1993, may be substituted.
(3) If a dwell is used to comply with these standards, records of the tests required in § 63.465(d) to determine an appropriate dwell time for each part or parts basket.
(4) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the idling emission limit standards of § 63.463(b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(2)(ii) shall maintain records of the initial performance test, including the idling emission rate and values of the monitoring parameters measured during the test.
(5) Records of the halogenated HAP solvent content for each solvent used in a solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(6) If a squeegee system is used to comply with these standards, records of the test required by § 63.466(f) to determine the maximum product throughput for the squeegees and records of both the weekly monitoring required by § 63.466(a)(3) for visual inspection and the length of continuous web product cleaned during the previous week.
(7) If an air knife system or a combination squeegee and air knife system is used to comply with these standards, records of the determination of the proper operating parameter and parameter value for the air knife system.
(b) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with § 63.463 shall maintain records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section either in electronic or written form for a period of 5 years.
(1) The results of control device monitoring required under § 63.466.
(2) Information on the actions taken to comply with § 63.463(e) and (f). This information shall include records of written or verbal orders for replacement parts, a description of the repairs made, and additional monitoring conducted to demonstrate that monitored parameters have returned to accepted levels.
(3) Estimates of annual solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine.
(4) If a carbon adsorber is used to comply with these standards, records of the date and results of the weekly measurement of the halogenated HAP solvent concentration in the carbon adsorber exhaust required in § 63.466(e).
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section for continuous web cleaning machines, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.464 shall maintain records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section either in electronic or written form for a period of 5 years.
(1) The dates and amounts of solvent that are added to the solvent cleaning machine.
(2) The solvent composition of wastes removed from cleaning machines as determined using the procedure described in § 63.465(c)(2).
(3) Calculation sheets showing how monthly emissions and the rolling 3-month average emissions from the solvent cleaning machine were determined, and the results of all calculations.
(d) Each owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine without a solvent/air interface complying with the provisions of § 63.464 shall maintain records on the method used to determine the cleaning capacity of the cleaning machine.
(e) Each owner or operator of a continuous web cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.464(d) shall maintain the following records in either electronic or written form for a period of 5 years.
(1) The dates and amounts of solvent that are added to the solvent cleaning machine.
(2) The dates and amounts of solvent that are recovered from the desorption of the carbon adsorber system.
(3) The solvent composition of wastes removed from each cleaning machine as determined using the procedures in § 63.465(c)(2).
(4) Calculation sheets showing the calculation and results of determining the overall cleaning system control efficiency, as required by § 63.465.
[59 FR 61805, Dec. 2, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 67802, Dec. 3, 1999; 68 FR 37349, June 23, 2003]
§ 63.468
Reporting requirements.
(a) Each owner or operator of an existing solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit an initial notification report to the Administrator no later than August 29, 1995, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. This report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.
(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the solvent cleaning machine(s).
(3) A brief description of each solvent cleaning machine including machine type (batch vapor, batch cold, vapor in-line or cold in-line), solvent/air interface area, and existing controls.
(4) The date of installation for each solvent cleaning machine or a letter certifying that the solvent cleaning machine was installed prior to, or after, November 29, 1993.
(5) The anticipated compliance approach for each solvent cleaning machine.
(6) An estimate of annual halogenated HAP solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine.
(b) Each owner or operator of a new solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit an initial notification report to the Administrator. New sources for which construction or reconstruction had commenced and initial startup had not occurred before December 2, 1994, shall submit this report as soon as practicable before startup but no later than January 31, 1995, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. New sources for which the construction or reconstruction commenced after December 2, 1994, shall submit this report as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence or for sources which reclassify to major source status, no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart. This report shall include all of the information required in § 63.5(d)(1) of subpart A (General Provisions), with the revisions and additions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.
(1) The report shall include a brief description of each solvent cleaning machine including machine type (batch vapor, batch cold, vapor in-line, or cold-line), solvent/air interface area, and existing controls.
(2) The report shall include the anticipated compliance approach for each solvent cleaning machine.
(3) In lieu of § 63.5(d)(1)(ii)(H) of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator must report an estimate of annual halogenated HAP solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine.
(c) Each owner or operator of a batch cold solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit a compliance report to the Administrator. For existing sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.460(d), or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. For new sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after startup or May 1, 1995, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. This report shall include the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.
(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the solvent cleaning machine(s).
(3) A statement, signed by the owner or operator of the solvent cleaning machine, stating that the solvent cleaning machine for which the report is being submitted is in compliance with the provisions of this subpart.
(4) The compliance approach for each solvent cleaning machine.
(d) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.463 shall submit to the Administrator an initial statement of compliance for each solvent cleaning machine. For existing sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.460(d), or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. For new sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after startup or May 1, 1995, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. This statement shall include the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.
(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the solvent cleaning machine(s).
(3) A list of the control equipment used to achieve compliance for each solvent cleaning machine.
(4) For each piece of control equipment required to be monitored, a list of the parameters that are monitored and the values of these parameters measured on or during the first month after the compliance date.
(5) Conditions to maintain the wind speed requirements of § 63.463(e)(2)(ii), if applicable.
(6) Each owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine complying with the idling emission limit standards of § 63.463(b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), and (c)(2)(ii) shall submit a test report for tests of idling emissions meeting the specifications in Method 307 of appendix A to this subpart. This report shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (d)(6)(iv) of this section.
(i) This test must be on the same specific model cleaner used at the source. The test can be done by the owner or operator of the affected machine or can be supplied by the vendor of that solvent cleaning machine or a third party.
(ii) This report must clearly state the monitoring parameters, monitoring frequency and the delineation of exceedances for each parameter.
(iii) If a solvent cleaning machine vendor or third party test report is used to demonstrate compliance, it shall include the following for the solvent cleaning machine tested: Name of person(s) or company that performed the test, model name, the date the solvent cleaning machine was tested, serial number, and a diagram of the solvent cleaning machine tested.
(iv) If a solvent cleaning machine vendor or third party test report is used, the owner or operator of the solvent cleaning machine shall comply with the requirements specified in either paragraphs (d)(6)(iv)(A) and (d)(6)(iv)(B) of this section.
(A) Submit a statement by the solvent cleaning machine vendor that the unit tested is the same as the unit the report is being submitted for.
(B) Demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the solvent emissions from the solvent cleaning machine for which the test report is being submitted are equal to or less than the solvent emissions from the solvent cleaning machine in the vendor test report.
(7) If a carbon adsorber is used to comply with these standards, the date and results of the weekly measurement of the halogenated HAP solvent concentration in the carbon adsorber exhaust required in § 63.466(e).
(e) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.464 shall submit to the Administrator an initial statement of compliance for each solvent cleaning machine. For existing sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.460(d). For new sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after startup or May 1, 1995, whichever is later. The
statement shall include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(4) of this section.
(1) The name and address of the solvent cleaning machine owner or operator.
(2) The address of the solvent cleaning machine(s).
(3) The solvent/air interface area for each solvent cleaning machine or, for cleaning machines without a solvent/air interface, a description of the method used to determine the cleaning capacity and the results.
(4) The results of the first 3-month average emissions calculation.
(f) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.463 shall submit an annual report by February 1 of the year following the one for which the reporting is being made. This report shall include the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section.
(1) A signed statement from the facility owner or his designee stating that, “All operators of solvent cleaning machines have received training on the proper operation of solvent cleaning machines and their control devices sufficient to pass the test required in § 63.463(d)(10).”
(2) An estimate of solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine during the reporting period.
(3) The reports required under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section can be combined into a single report for each facility.
(g) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of § 63.464 shall submit a solvent emission report every year. This solvent emission report shall contain the requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section.
(1) The size and type of each unit subject to this subpart (solvent/air interface area or cleaning capacity).
(2) The average monthly solvent consumption for the solvent cleaning machine in kilograms per month.
(3) The 3-month monthly rolling average solvent emission estimates calculated each month using the method as described in § 63.465(c).
(4) The reports required under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section can be combined into a single report for each facility.
(h) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine shall submit an exceedance report to the Administrator semiannually except when, the Administrator determines on a case-by-case basis that more frequent reporting is necessary to accurately assess the compliance status of the source or, an exceedance occurs. Once an exceedance has occurred the owner or operator shall follow a quarterly reporting format until a request to reduce reporting frequency under paragraph (i) of this section is approved. Exceedance reports shall be delivered or postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each calendar half or quarter, as appropriate. The exceedance report shall include the applicable information in paragraphs (h) (1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Information on the actions taken to comply with § 63.463 (e) and (f). This information shall include records of written or verbal orders for replacement parts, a description of the repairs made, and additional monitoring conducted to demonstrate that monitored parameters have returned to accepted levels.
(2) If an exceedance has occurred, the reason for the exceedance and a description of the actions taken.
(3) If no exceedances of a parameter have occurred, or a piece of equipment has not been inoperative, out of control, repaired, or adjusted, such information shall be stated in the report.
(i) An owner or operator who is required to submit an exceedance report on a quarterly (or more frequent) basis may reduce the frequency of reporting to semiannual if the conditions in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(3) of this section are met.
(1) The source has demonstrated a full year of compliance without an exceedance.
(2) The owner or operator continues to comply with all relevant recordkeeping and monitoring requirements specified subpart A (General Provisions) and in this subpart.
(3) The Administrator does not object to a reduced frequency of reporting for
the affected source as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of subpart A (General Provisions).
(j) [Reserved]
(k) Each owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine requesting an equivalency determination, as described in § 63.469 shall submit an equivalency request report to the Administrator. For existing sources, this report must be submitted to the Administrator no later than June 3, 1996. For new sources, this report must be submitted and approved by the Administrator prior to startup.
[59 FR 61805, Dec. 2, 1994; 60 FR 29485, June 5, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 69643, Dec. 14, 1999; 71 FR 75346, Dec. 19, 200585 FR 73890, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.469
Equivalent methods of control.
Upon written application, the Administrator may approve the use of equipment or procedures after they have been satisfactorily demonstrated to be equivalent, in terms of reducing emissions of methylene chloride, perchloroethylene, trichloroethylene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, carbon tetrachloride or chloroform to the atmosphere, to those prescribed for compliance within a specified paragraph of this subpart. The application must contain a complete description of the equipment or procedure and the proposed equivalency testing procedure and the date, time, and location scheduled for the equivalency demonstration.
§ 63.470
Implementation and enforcement.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.460, 63.462(a) through (d), and 63.463 through 63.464 (except for the authorities in § 63.463(d)(9)). Use the procedures in § 63.469 to request the use of alternative equipment or procedures.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
[68 FR 37349, June 23, 2003]
§ 63.471
Facility-wide standards.
(a) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall comply with the requirements specified in this section. For purposes of this section, affected facility means all solvent cleaning machines, except solvent cleaning machines used in the manufacture and maintenance of aerospace products, solvent cleaning machines used in the manufacture of narrow tubing, and continuous web cleaning machines, located at a major source that are subject to the facility-wide limits in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and for area sources, affected facility means all solvent cleaning machines, except cold batch cleaning machines, located at an area source that are subject to the facility-wide limits in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(b)(1) Each owner or operator of an affected facility must maintain a log of solvent additions and deletions for each solvent cleaning machine.
(2) Each owner or operator of an affected facility must ensure that the total emissions of perchloroethylene (PCE), trichloroethylene (TCE) and
methylene chloride (MC) used at the affected facility are equal to or less than the applicable facility-wide 12-month rolling total emission limit presented in Table 1 of this section as determined using the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section.
Table 1—Facility-wide Emission Limits for Facilities With Solvent Cleaning Machines
Solvents emitted
Facility-wide annual emission limits in kg—for general population degreasing machines
Facility-wide annual emission limit in kg for military depot
maintenance facilities
PCE only
a
4,800
8,000
TCE only
14,100
23,500
MC only
60,000
100,000
Multiple solvents—Calculate the MC-weighted emissions using equation 1
60,000
100,000
a
PCE emission limit calculated using CalEPA URE.

# Note:
In the equation, the facility emissions of PCE and TCE are weighted according to their carcinogenic potency relative to that of MC. The value of A is 12.5. The value for B is 4.25.
ER03MY07.015
Where:
WE = Weighted 12-month rolling total emissions in kg (lbs).
PCE = 12-month rolling total PCE emissions from all solvent cleaning machines at the facility in kg (lbs).
TCE = 12-month rolling total TCE emission from all solvent cleaning machines at the facility in kg (lbs).
MC = 12-month rolling total MC emissions from all solvent cleaning machines at the facility in kg (lbs).
(c) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall on the first operating day of every month, demonstrate compliance with the applicable facility-wide emission limit on a 12-month rolling total basis using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph, “each solvent cleaning machine” means each solvent cleaning machine that is part of an affected facility regulated by this section.
(1) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall, on the first operating day of every month, ensure that each solvent cleaning machine system contains only clean liquid solvent. This includes, but is not limited to, fresh unused solvent, recycled solvent, and used solvent that has been cleaned of soiled materials. A fill line must be indicated during the first month the measurements are made. The solvent level within the machine must be returned to the same fill-line each month, immediately prior to calculating monthly emissions as specified in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section. The solvent cleaning machine does not have to be emptied and filled with fresh unused solvent prior to the calculations.
(2) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall, on the first operating day of the month, using the records of all solvent additions and deletions for the previous month, determine solvent emissions (E
unit
) from each solvent cleaning machine using equation 10:
ER03MY07.016
Where:
E
unit
= the total halogenated HAP solvent emissions from the solvent cleaning machine during the most recent month i, (kilograms of solvent per month).
SA
i
= the total amount of halogenated HAP liquid solvent added to the solvent cleaning machine during the most recent month i, (kilograms of solvent per month).
LSR
i
= the total amount of halogenated HAP liquid solvent removed from the solvent cleaning machine during the most recent
month i, (kilograms of solvent per month).
SSR
i
= the total amount of halogenated HAP solvent removed from the solvent cleaning machine in solid waste, obtained as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, during the most recent month i, (kilograms of solvent per month).
(3) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall, on the first operating day of the month, determine SSR
i
using the method specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i) or (c)(3)(ii) of this section.
(i) From tests conducted using EPA reference method 25d.
(ii) By engineering calculations included in the compliance report.
(4) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall on the first operating day of the month, after 12 months of emissions data are available, determine the 12-month rolling total emissions, ET
unit
, for the 12-month period ending with the most recent month using equation 11:
ER03MY07.017
Where:
ET
unit
= the total halogenated HAP solvent emissions over the preceding 12 months, (kilograms of solvent emissions per 12-month period).
E
unit
= halogenated HAP solvent emissions for each month (j) for the most recent 12 months (kilograms of solvent per month).
(5) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall on the first operating day of the month, after 12 months of emissions data are available, determine the 12-month rolling total emissions, ET
facility
, for the 12-month period ending with the most recent month using equation 12:
ER03MY07.018
Where:
ET
facility
= the total halogenated HAP solvent emissions over the preceding 12 months for all cleaning machines at the facility, (kilograms of solvent emissions per 12-month period).
ET
unit
= the total halogenated HAP solvent emissions over the preceding 12 months for each unit j, where i equals the total number of units at the facility (kilograms of solvent emissions per 12-month period).
(d) If the applicable facility-wide emission limit presented in Table 1 of paragraph (b)(2) is not met, an exceedance has occurred. All exceedances shall be reported as required in § 63.468(h).
(e) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall maintain records specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section either in electronic or written form for a period of 5 years. For purposes of this paragraph, “each solvent cleaning machine” means each solvent cleaning machine that is part of an affected facility regulated by this section.
(1) The dates and amounts of solvent that are added to each solvent cleaning machine.
(2) The solvent composition of wastes removed from each solvent cleaning machines as determined using the procedure described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(3) Calculation sheets showing how monthly emissions and the 12-month rolling total emissions from each solvent cleaning machine were determined, and the results of all calculations.
(f) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit an initial notification report to the Administrator no later than May 3, 2010. This report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) The name and address of the owner or operator of the affected facility.
(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the solvent cleaning machine(s) that is part of an affected facility regulated by this section.
(3) A brief description of each solvent cleaning machine at the affected facility including machine type (batch vapor, batch cold, vapor in-line or cold in-line), solvent/air interface area, and existing controls.
(4) The date of installation for each solvent cleaning machine.
(5) An estimate of annual halogenated HAP solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine.
(g) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit to the Administrator an initial statement of compliance on or before May 3, 2010. The statement shall include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(3) of this section.
(1) The name and address of the owner or operator of the affected facility.
(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of each solvent cleaning machine that is part of an affected facility regulated by this section.
(3) The results of the first 12-month rolling total emissions calculation.
(h) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit a solvent emission report every year. This solvent emission report shall contain the requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(3) of this section.
(1) The average monthly solvent consumption for the affected facility in kilograms per month.
(2) The 12-month rolling total solvent emission estimates calculated each month using the method as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) This report can be combined with the annual report required in § 63.468(f) and (g) into a single report for each facility.
[72 FR 25158, May 3, 2007]
Pt. 63, Subpt. T, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart T of Part 63—Test of Solvent Cleaning Procedures

# General Questions
______ 1. What is the maximum allowable speed for parts entry and removal?
A. 8.5 meters per minute (28 feet per minute).
B. 3.4 meters per minute (11 feet per minute).
C. 11 meters per minute (36 feet per minute).
D. No limit.
______ 2. How do you ensure that parts enter and exit the solvent cleaning machine at the speed required in the regulation?
A. Program on computerized hoist monitors speed.
B. Can judge the speed by looking at it.
C. Measure the time it takes the parts to travel a measured distance.
______ 3. Identify the sources of air disturbances.
A. Fans
B. Open doors
C. Open windows
D. Ventilation vents
E. All of the above
______ 4. What are the three operating modes?
A. Idling, working and downtime
B. Precleaning, cleaning, and drying
C. Startup, shutdown, off
D. None of the above
______ 5. When can parts or parts baskets be removed from the solvent cleaning machine?
A. When they are clean
B. At any time
C. When dripping stops
D. Either A or C is correct
______ 6. How must parts be oriented during cleaning?
A. It does not matter as long as they fit in the parts basket.
B. So that the solvent pools in the cavities where the dirt is concentrated.
C. So that solvent drains from them freely.
______ 7. During startup, what must be turned on first, the primary condenser or the sump heater?
A. Primary condenser
B. Sump heater
C. Turn both on at same time
D. Either A or B is correct
______ 8. During shutdown, what must be turned off first, the primary condenser or the sump heater?
A. Primary condenser
B. Sump heater
C. Turn both off at same time
D. Either A or B is correct
______ 9. In what manner must solvent be added to and removed from the solvent cleaning machine?
A. With leak proof couplings
B. With the end of the pipe in the solvent sump below the liquid solvent surface.
C. So long as the solvent does not spill, the method does not matter.
D. A and B
______ 10. What must be done with waste solvent and still and sump bottoms?
A. Pour down the drain
B. Store in closed container
C. Store in a bucket
D. A or B
______ 11. What types of materials are prohibited from being cleaned in solvent cleaning machines using halogenated HAP solvents?
A. Sponges
B. Fabrics
C. Paper
D. All of the above

# Control Device Specific Questions

# [ ] Freeboard Refrigeration Device
______ 1. What temperature must the FRD achieve?
A. Below room temperature
B. 50 °F
C. Below the solvent boiling point
D. 30 percent below the solvent boiling point

# [ ] Working-Mode Cover
______ 2. When can a cover be open?
A. While parts are in the cleaning machine
B. During parts entry and removal
C. During maintenance
D. During measurements for compliance purposes
E. A and C
F. B, C, and D
______ 3. Covers must be maintained in what condition?
A. Free of holes
B. Free of cracks
C. So that they completely seal cleaner opening
D. All of the above

# [ ] Dwell
______ 4. Where must the parts be held for the appropriate dwell time?
A. In the vapor zone
B. In the freeboard area above the vapor zone
C. Above the cleaning machine
D. In the immersion sump

# Answers

# General Questions
1. B
2. A or C
3. E
4. A
5. C
6. C
7. A
8. B
9. D
10. B
11. D

# Control Device Specific Questions
1. D
2. F
3. D
4. B
[59 FR 61818, Dec. 2, 1994; 60 FR 29485, June 5, 1995]
Pt. 63, Subpt. T, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart T of Part 63—General Provisions Applicability to Subpart T
Reference
Applies to subpart T
BCC
BVI
Comments
63.1(a) (1)-(3)
Yes
Yes
63.1(a)(4)
Yes
Yes
Subpart T (this appendix) specifies applicability of each paragraph in subpart A to subpart T.
63.1(a)(5)
No
No
63.1(a) (6)-(8)
Yes
Yes
63.1(a)(9)
No
No
63.1(a)(10)
Yes
Yes
63.1(a)(11)
No
No
Subpart T allows submittal of notifications and reports through the U.S. mail, fax, and courier. Subpart T requires that the postmark for notifications and reports submitted through the U.S. mail or other non-Governmental mail carriers be on or before deadline specified in an applicable requirement.
63.1(a) (12)-(14)
Yes
Yes
63.1(b)(1)
No
No
Subpart T specifies applicability.
63.1(b)(2)
No
Yes
63.1(b)(3)
No
No
Subpart T requires that a record of halogenated cleaning machine applicability determination be kept on site for 5 years, or until the cleaning machine changes its operations. The record shall be sufficiently detailed to allow the Administrator to make a finding about the source's applicability status with regard to subpart T.
63.1(c)(1)
Yes
Yes
63.1(c)(2)
Yes
Yes
Subpart T, § 63.460(h) exempts area sources subject to this subpart from the obligation to obtain Title V operating permits.
63.1(c)(3)
No
No
63.1(c)(4)
Yes
Yes
63.1(c)(5)
Yes
Yes
Subpart T does not require continuous monitoring systems (CMS) or continuous opacity monitoring systems. Therefore, notifications and requirements for CMS and COMS specified in subpart A do not apply to subpart T.
63.1(c)(6)
Yes
Yes
63.1(d)
No
No
63.1(e)
No
Yes
63.2
Yes
Yes
Subpart T definitions (§ 63.461) for existing and new overlap with the definitions for existing source and new source in subpart A (§ 63.2). Both subpart A and T also define Administrator.
63.3(a)-(c)
Yes
Yes
63.4(a) (1)-(3)
Yes
Yes
63.4(a)(4)
No
No
63.4(a)(5)
Yes
Yes
63.4(b)-(c)
Yes
Yes
63.5(a)(1)
Yes
Yes
63.5(a)(2)
Yes
Yes
63.5(b)(1)
Yes
Yes
63.5(b)(2)
No
No
63.5(b)(3)
No
No
Subpart T overrides the requirement for approval prior to constructing a new or reconstructing an existing major source.
63.5(b)(4)-(6)
Yes
Yes
63.5(c)
No
No
63.5 (d)-(f)
No
No
Subpart T overrides the requirement to submit an application for approval of construction or reconstruction of a halogenated solvent cleaning machine.
63.6(a)
Yes
Yes
63.6(b) (1)-(5)
Yes
Yes
Subpart T, § 63.460, specifies compliance dates.
63.6(b)(6)
No
No
63.6(b)(7)
No
No
Subpart T has the same requirements for affected halogenated HAP solvent cleaning machine subcategories that are located at area sources as it does for those located at major sources.
63.6(c)(1)-(2)
Yes
Yes
Subpart T allows 3 years from the date of promulgation for both area and major existing sources to comply.
63.6(c) (3)-(4)
No
No
63.6(c)(5)
Yes
Yes
Subpart T has the same requirements for affected halogenated HAP solvent cleaning machine subcategories that are located at area sources as it does for those located at major sources.
Subpart T allows 3 years from the date of promulgation for both area and major existing sources to comply.
63.6(d)
No
No
63.6(e)(1)-(2)
Yes
Yes
63.6(e)(3)
No
No
Subpart T overrides the requirement of a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan. Subpart T specifies startup and shutdown procedures to be followed by an owner or operator for batch vapor and in-line cleaning machines.
63.6(f)-(g)
Yes
Yes
63.6(h)
No
No
Subpart T does not require compliance with an opacity or visible emission standard.
63.6(i) (1)-(14)
Yes
Yes
63.6(i)(15)
No
No
63.6(i)(16)
Yes
Yes
63.6(j)
Yes
Yes
63.7(a)
No
Yes
Subpart T gives owners or operators the option to perform an idling emission performance test as a way of demonstrating compliance. Other options are also available that do not require a performance test.
63.7(b)
No
Yes
This is only required for those owners or operators that choose the idling emission standard as their compliance option.
63.7(c)(1)
No
Yes
This is only required for those owners or operators that choose the idling emission standard as their compliance option.
63.7(c) (2)-(3)
No
No
Subpart T does not require a site-specific test plan for the idling emission performance test.
63.7(c)(4)
No
No
Subpart T does not require a performance test that involves the retrieval of gas samples, and therefore this does not apply.
63.7(d)
No
No
Requirements do not apply to the idling emission performance test option.
63.7(e)
No
Yes
63.7(f)
No
Yes
63.7(g)
No
Yes
Subpart T specifies what is required to demonstrate idling emission standard compliance through the use of the Environmental Protection Agency test method 307 and control device monitoring. Reports and records of testing and monitoring are required for compliance verification. Three runs of the test are required for compliance, as specified in § 63.7(e) of subpart A.
63.7(h)
No
No
Subpart T does not require the use of a performance test to comply with the standard. The idling emission standard option (which requires an idling emission performance test) is an alternative option offered to owners or operators of batch vapor and in-line cleaning machines for compliance flexibility.
63.8 (a)-(b)
Yes
Yes
63.8 (c)-(e)
No
No
Subpart T does not require the use of continuous monitoring systems to demonstrate compliance.
63.8(f)
Yes
Yes
63.8(g)
No
No
Subpart T does not require continuous opacity monitoring systems and continuous monitoring systems data.
63.9(a) (1)-(4)
Yes
Yes
63.9(b)(1)
Yes
Yes
63.9(b)(2)
Yes
Yes
Subpart T includes all of those requirements stated in subpart A, except that subpart A also requires a statement as to whether the affected source is a major or an area source, and an identification of the relevant standard (including the source's compliance date). Subpart T also has some more specific information requirements specific to the affected source (see subpart T, §§ 63.468(a)-(b)).
63.9(b)(3)
Yes
Yes
The subpart A and subpart T initial notification reports differ (see above).
63.9(b)(4)
No
No
Subpart T does not require an application for approval of construction or reconstruction.
63.9(b)(5)
Yes
Yes
63.9(c)
Yes
Yes
63.9(d)
Yes
Yes
63.9(e)
Yes
Yes
Under subpart T, this requirement only applies to owners or operators choosing to comply with the idling emissions standard.
63.9(f)
No
No
Subpart T does not require opacity or visible emission observations.
63.9(g)(1)
No
No
Subpart T does not require the use of continuous monitoring systems or continuous opacity monitoring systems.
63.9(h)
No
No
Section 63.468 of subpart T requires an initial statement of compliance for existing sources to be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.460(d) of subpart T. For new sources, this report is to be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days from the date specified in § 63.460(c).
63.9(i)
Yes
Yes
63.9(j)
Yes
Yes
63.9(k)
Yes
Yes
Only as specified in § 63.9(j).
63.10(a)
Yes
Yes
63.10(b)
No
No
Recordkeeping requirements are specified in subpart T.
63.10(c) (1)-(15)
No
No
Subpart T does not require continuous monitoring systems.
63.10(d)(1)
Yes
Yes
63.10(d)(2)
No
No
Reporting requirements are specified in subpart T.
63.10(e) (l)-(2)
No
No
Subpart T does not require continuous emissions monitoring systems.
63.10(e)(3)
No
No
Subpart T does not require continuous monitoring systems.
63.10(e)(4)
No
No
Subpart T does not require continuous opacity monitoring systems.
63.10(f)
Yes
Yes
63.11(a)
Yes
Yes
63.11(b)
No
No
Flares are not a control option under subpart T.
63.12 (a)-(c)
Yes
Yes
63.13 (a)-(c)
Yes
Yes
63.14
No
No
Subpart T requirements do not require the use of the test methods incorporated by reference in subpart A.
63.15(a)-(b)
Yes
Yes
BCC = Batch Cold Cleaning Machines.
BVI = Batch Vapor and In-line Cleaning Machines.
[59 FR 61818, Dec. 2, 1994; 60 FR 29485, June 5, 1995, as amended at 70 FR 75346, Dec. 19, 2005; 85 FR 73891, Nov. 19, 2020]

# Subpart U—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group I Polymers and Resins

# Source:
62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.480
Applicability and designation of affected sources.
(a)
Definition of affected source.
The provisions of this subpart apply to each affected source. Affected sources are described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section.
(1) An affected source is either an existing affected source or a new affected source. Existing affected source is defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and new affected source is defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(2) An existing affected source is defined as each group of one or more elastomer product process units (EPPU) and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, that is
not part of a new affected source, as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, that is manufacturing the same primary product and that is located at a plant site that is a major source.
(3) A new affected source is defined by the criteria in paragraph (a)(3)(i), (a)(3)(ii), or (a)(3)(iii) of this section. The situation described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section is distinct from those situations described in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) and (a)(3)(iii) of this section and from any situation described in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i) At a site without HAP emission points before June 12, 1995 (i.e., a “greenfield” site), each group of one or more EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, that is manufacturing the same primary product and that is part of a major source on which construction commenced after June 12, 1995;
(ii) A group of one or more EPPU meeting the criteria in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section; or
(iii) A reconstructed affected source meeting the criteria in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section.
(4)
Emission points and equipment.
The affected source also includes the emission points and equipment specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(iv) of this section that are associated with each applicable group of one or more EPPU constituting an affected source.
(i) Each waste management unit.
(ii) Maintenance wastewater.
(iii) Each heat exchange system.
(iv) Equipment required by, or utilized as a method of compliance with, this subpart which may include control devices and recovery devices.
(5) EPPUs and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, that are located at plant sites that are not major sources are neither affected sources nor part of an affected source.
(b)
EPPUs without organic HAP.
The owner or operator of an EPPU that is part of an affected source, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, but that does not use or manufacture any organic HAP shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section. Such an EPPU is not subject to any other provision of this subpart and is not required to comply with the provisions of subpart A of this part.
(1) Retain information, data, and analyses used to document the basis for the determination that the EPPU does not use or manufacture any organic HAP. Types of information that could document this determination include, but are not limited to, records of chemicals purchased for the process, analyses of process stream composition, engineering calculations, or process knowledge.
(2) When requested by the Administrator, demonstrate that the EPPU does not use or manufacture any organic HAP.
(c)
Emission points not subject to the provisions of this subpart.
The affected source includes the emission points listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(9) of this section, but these emission points are not subject to the requirements of this subpart or to the provisions of subpart A of this part.
(1) Equipment that does not contain organic HAP and is located at an EPPU that is part of an affected source;
(2) Stormwater from segregated sewers;
(3) Water from fire-fighting and deluge systems in segregated sewers;
(4) Spills;
(5) Water from safety showers;
(6) Water from testing of deluge systems;
(7) Water from testing of firefighting systems;
(8) Vessels and equipment storing and/or handling material that contains no organic HAP or organic HAP as impurities only; and
(9) Equipment that is intended to operate in organic HAP service for less than 300 hours during the calendar year.
(d)
Processes exempted from the affected source.
Research and development facilities are exempted from the affected source.
(e)
Applicability determination of elastomer equipment included in a process unit producing a non-elastomer product.
If an elastomer product that is subject to this subpart is produced within a process unit that is subject to subpart JJJ of this part, and at least 50 percent of the elastomer is used in the production of the product manufactured by
the subpart JJJ process unit, the unit operations involved in the production of the elastomer are considered part of the process unit that is subject to subpart JJJ, and not this subpart.
(f)
Primary product determination and applicability.
An owner or operator of a process unit that produces or plans to produce an elastomer product shall determine if the process unit is subject to this subpart in accordance with this paragraph. The owner or operator shall initially determine whether a process unit is designated as an EPPU and subject to the provisions of this subpart in accordance with either paragraph (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section. The owner or operator of a flexible operation unit that was not initially designated as an EPPU, but in which an elastomer product is produced, shall conduct an annual re-determination of the applicability of this subpart in accordance with paragraph (f)(3) of this section. Owners or operators that anticipate the production of an elastomer product in a process unit that was not initially designated as an EPPU, and in which no elastomer products are currently produced, shall determine if the process unit is subject to this subpart in accordance with paragraph (f)(4) of this section. Paragraphs (f)(3) and (f)(5) through (f)(7) of this section discuss compliance only for flexible operation units. Other paragraphs apply to all process units, including flexible operation units, unless otherwise noted. Paragraph (f)(8) of this section contains reporting requirements associated with the applicability determinations. Paragraphs (f)(9) and (f)(10) describe criteria for removing the EPPU designation from a process unit.
(1)
Initial determination.
The owner or operator shall initially determine if a process unit is subject to the provisions of this subpart based on the primary product of the process unit in accordance with paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. If the process unit never uses or manufactures any organic HAP, regardless of the outcome of the primary product determination, the only requirements of this subpart that might apply to the process unit are contained in paragraph (b) of this section. If a flexible operation unit does not use or manufacture any organic HAP during the manufacture of one or more products, paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section applies to that flexible operation unit.
(i) If a process unit only manufactures one product, then that product shall represent the primary product of the process unit.
(ii) If a process unit produces more than one intended product at the same time, the primary product shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A) The product for which the process unit has the greatest annual design capacity on a mass basis shall represent the primary product of the process unit, or
(B) If a process unit has the same maximum annual design capacity on a mass basis for two or more products, and if one of those products is an elastomer product, then the elastomer product shall represent the primary product of the process unit.
(iii) If a process unit is designed and operated as a flexible operation unit, the primary product shall be determined as specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section based on the anticipated operations for the 5 years following September 5, 1996 at existing process units, or for the first year after the process unit begins production of any product for new process units. If operations cannot be anticipated sufficiently to allow the determination of the primary product for the specified period, applicability shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(A) If the flexible operation unit will manufacture one product for the greatest operating time over the specified five year period for existing process units, or the specified one year period for new process units, then that product shall represent the primary product of the flexible operation unit.
(B) If the flexible operation unit will manufacture multiple products equally based on operating time, then the product with the greatest expected production on a mass basis over the specified five year period for existing process units, or the specified one year period for new process units shall represent the primary product of the flexible operation unit.
(iv) If, according to paragraph (f)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, the primary product of a process unit is an elastomer product, then that process unit shall be designated as an EPPU. That EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, is either an affected source, or part of an affected source comprised of other EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, subject to this subpart with the same primary product at the same plant site that is a major source. If the primary product of a process unit is determined to be a product that is not an elastomer product, then that process unit is not an EPPU.
(2) If the primary product cannot be determined for a flexible operation unit in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section, applicability shall be determined in accordance with this paragraph.
(i) If the owner or operator cannot determine the primary product in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section, but can determine that an elastomer product is not the primary product, then that flexible operation unit is not an EPPU.
(ii) If the owner or operator cannot determine the primary product in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section, and cannot determine that an elastomer product is not the primary product as specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, applicability shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) or (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
(A) If the flexible operation unit is an existing process unit, the flexible operation unit shall be designated as an EPPU if an elastomer product was produced for 5 percent or greater of the total operating time of the flexible operation unit since March 9, 1999. That EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, is either an affected source, or part of an affected source comprised of other EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, subject to this subpart with the same primary product at the same plant site that is a major source. For a flexible operation unit that is designated as an EPPU in accordance with this paragraph, the elastomer product produced for the greatest amount of time since March 9, 1999 shall be designated as the primary product of the EPPU.
(B) If the flexible operation unit is a new process unit, the flexible operation unit shall be designated as an EPPU if the owner or operator anticipates that an elastomer product will be manufactured in the flexible operation unit at any time in the first year after the date the unit begins production of any product. That EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, is either an affected source, or part of an affected source comprised of other EPPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, subject to this subpart with the same primary product at the same plant site that is a major source. For a process unit that is designated as an EPPU in accordance with this paragraph, the elastomer product that will be produced shall be designated as the primary product of the EPPU. If more than one elastomer product will be produced, the owner or operator may select which elastomer product is designated as the primary product.
(3)
Annual applicability determination for non-EPPUs that have produced an elastomer product.
Once per year beginning September 5, 2001, the owner or operator of each flexible operation unit that is not designated as an EPPU, but that has produced an elastomer product at any time in the preceding five-year period or since the date that the unit began production of any product, whichever is shorter, shall perform the evaluation described in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (f)(3)(iii) of this section. However, an owner or operator that does not intend to produce any elastomer product in the future, in accordance with paragraph (f)(9) of this section, is not required to perform the evaluation described in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (f)(3)(iii) of this section.
(i) For each product produced in the flexible operation unit, the owner or operator shall calculate the percentage of total operating time over which the product was produced during the preceding five-year period.
(ii) The owner or operator shall identify the primary product as the product with the highest percentage of total operating time for the preceding five-year period.
(iii) If the primary product identified in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) is an elastomer product, the flexible operation unit shall be designated as an EPPU. The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator no later than 45 days after determining that the flexible operation unit is an EPPU, and shall comply with the requirements of this subpart in accordance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section for the flexible operation unit.
(4)
Applicability determination for non-EPPUs that have not produced an elastomer product.
The owner or operator that anticipates the production of an elastomer product in a process unit that is not designated as an EPPU, and in which no elastomer products have been produced in the previous 5 year period or since the date that the process unit began production of any product, whichever is shorter, shall determine if the process unit is subject to this subpart in accordance with paragraphs (f)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. Also, owners or operators who have notified the Administrator that a process unit is not an EPPU in accordance with paragraph (f)(9) of this section, that now anticipate the production of an elastomer product in the process unit, shall determine if the process unit is subject to this subpart in accordance with paragraphs (f)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator shall use the procedures in paragraph (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section to determine if the process unit is designated as an EPPU, with the following exception: for existing process units that are determining the primary product in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section, production shall be projected for the five years following the date that the owner or operator anticipates initiating the production of an elastomer product.
(ii) If the unit is designated as an EPPU in accordance with paragraph (f)(4)(i) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply in accordance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
(5)
Compliance for flexible operation units.
Owners or operators of EPPUs that are flexible operation units shall comply with the standards specified for the primary product, with the exceptions provided in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) and (f)(5)(ii) of this section.
(i) Whenever a flexible operation unit manufactures a product in which no organic HAP is used or manufactured, the owner or operator is only required to comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section to demonstrate compliance for activities associated with the manufacture of that product. This subpart does not require compliance with the provisions of subpart A of this part for activities associated with the manufacture of a product that meets the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) Whenever a flexible operation unit manufactures a product that makes it subject to subpart GGG of this part, the owner or operator is not required to comply with the provisions of this subpart during the production of that product.
(6) Owners or operators of EPPUs that are flexible operation units have the option of determining the group status of each emission point associated with the flexible operation unit, in accordance with either paragraph (f)(6)(i) or (f)(6)(ii) of this section, with the exception of batch front-end process vents. For batch front-end process vents, the owner or operator shall determine the group status in accordance with § 63.488.
(i) The owner or operator may determine the group status of each emission point based on emission point characteristics when the primary product is being manufactured.
(ii) The owner or operator may determine the group status of each emission point separately for each product produced by the flexible operation unit. For each product, the group status shall be determined using the emission point characteristics when that product is being manufactured and using the Group 1 criteria specified for the primary product. (Note: Under this scenario, it is possible that the group status, and therefore the requirement to achieve emission reductions, for an
emission point may change depending on the product being manufactured.)
(7) Owners or operators determining the group status of emission points in flexible operation units based solely on the primary product in accordance with paragraph (f)(6)(i) of this section shall establish parameter monitoring levels, as required, in accordance with either paragraph (f)(7)(i) or (f)(7)(ii) of this section. Owners or operators determining the group status of emission points in flexible operation units based on each product in accordance with paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section shall establish parameter monitoring levels, as required, in accordance with paragraph (f)(7)(i) of this section.
(i) Establish separate parameter monitoring levels in accordance with § 63.505(a) for each individual product.
(ii) Establish a single parameter monitoring level (for each parameter required to be monitored at each device subject to monitoring requirements) in accordance with § 63.505(a) that would apply for all products.
(8)
Reporting requirements.
When it is determined that a process unit is an EPPU and subject to the requirements of this subpart, the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5) shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(8)(i) and (f)(8)(ii) of this section, as applicable. If it is determined that the process unit is not subject to this subpart, the owner or operator shall either retain all information, data, and analysis used to document the basis for the determination that the primary product is not an elastomer product, or, when requested by the Administrator, demonstrate that the process unit is not subject to this subpart.
(i) If the EPPU manufactures only one elastomer product, identification of that elastomer product.
(ii) If the EPPU is designed and operated as a flexible operation unit, the information specified in paragraphs (f)(8)(ii)(A) through (f)(8)(ii)(D) of this section, as appropriate, shall be submitted.
(A) If a primary product could be determined, identification of the primary product.
(B) Identification of which compliance option, either paragraph (f)(6)(i) or (f)(6)(ii) of this section, has been selected by the owner or operator.
(C) If the option to establish separate parameter monitoring levels for each product in paragraph (f)(7)(i) of this section is selected, the identification of each product and the corresponding parameter monitoring level.
(D) If the option to establish a single parameter monitor level in paragraph (f)(7)(ii) of this section is selected, the parameter monitoring level for each parameter.
(9)
EPPUs terminating production of all elastomer products.
If an EPPU terminates the production of all elastomer products and does not anticipate the production of any elastomer products in the future, the process unit is no longer an EPPU and is not subject to this subpart after notification is made to the Administrator. This notification shall be accompanied by a rationale for why it is anticipated that no elastomer products will be produced in the process unit in the future.
(10)
Redetermination of applicability to EPPUs that are flexible operation units.
Whenever changes in production occur that could reasonably be expected to change the primary product of an EPPU that is operating as a flexible operation unit from an elastomer product to a product that would make the process unit subject to another subpart of this part, the owner or operator shall re-evaluate the status of the process unit as an EPPU in accordance with paragraphs (f)(10)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) For each product produced in the flexible operation unit, the owner or operator shall calculate the percentage of total operating time in which the product was produced for the preceding five-year period, or since the date that the process unit began production of any product, whichever is shorter.
(ii) The owner or operator shall identify the primary product as the product with the highest percentage of total operating time for the period.
(iii) If the conditions in (f)(10)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section are met, the flexible operation unit shall no longer be designated as an EPPU after the compliance date of the other subpart and shall no longer be subject to the provisions of this subpart after the
date that the process unit is required to be in compliance with the provisions of the other subpart of this part to which it is subject. If the conditions in paragraphs (f)(10)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section are not met, the flexible operation unit shall continue to be considered an EPPU and subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(A) The product identified in (f)(10)(ii) of this section is not an elastomer product; and
(B) The production of the product identified in (f)(10)(ii) of this section is subject to another subpart of this part; and
(C) The owner or operator submits a notification to the Administrator of the pending change in applicability.
(g)
Storage vessel ownership determination.
The owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(7) of this section to determine to which process unit a storage vessel shall be assigned. Paragraph (g)(8) of this section specifies when an owner or operator is required to redetermine to which process unit a storage vessel is assigned.
(1) If a storage vessel is already subject to another subpart of 40 CFR part 63 on September 5, 1996, that storage vessel shall be assigned to the process unit subject to the other subpart.
(2) If a storage vessel is dedicated to a single process unit, the storage vessel shall be assigned to that process unit.
(3) If a storage vessel is shared among process units, then the storage vessel shall be assigned to that process unit located on the same plant site as the storage vessel that has the greatest input into or output from the storage vessel (i.e., the process unit that has the predominant use of the storage vessel.)
(4) If predominant use cannot be determined for a storage vessel that is shared among process units and if only one of those process units is an EPPU subject to this subpart, the storage vessel shall be assigned to that EPPU.
(5) If predominant use cannot be determined for a storage vessel that is shared among process units and if more than one of the process units are EPPUs that have different primary products and that are subject to this subpart, then the owner or operator shall assign the storage vessel to any one of the EPPUs sharing the storage vessel.
(6) If the predominant use of a storage vessel varies from year to year, then predominant use shall be determined based on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding September 5, 1996 or based on the expected utilization for the 5 years following September 5, 1996, whichever is more representative of the expected operations for that storage vessel for existing affected sources, and based on the expected utilization for the first 5 years after initial start-up for new affected sources. The determination of predominant use shall be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status, as required by § 63.506(e)(5)(vii).
(7) Where a storage vessel is located at a major source that includes one or more process units which place material into, or receive materials from the storage vessel, but the storage vessel is located in a tank farm (including a marine tank farm), the applicability of this subpart shall be determined according to the provisions in paragraphs (g)(7)(i) through (g)(7)(iv) of this section.
(i) The storage vessel may only be assigned to a process unit that utilizes the storage vessel and does not have an intervening storage vessel for that product (or raw material, as appropriate). With respect to any process unit, an intervening storage vessel means a storage vessel connected by hard-piping both to the process unit and to the storage vessel in the tank farm so that product or raw material entering or leaving the process unit flows into (or from) the intervening storage vessel and does not flow directly into (or from) the storage vessel in the tank farm.
(ii) If there is no process unit at the major source that meets the criteria of paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section with respect to a storage vessel, this subpart does not apply to the storage vessel.
(iii) If there is only one process unit at the major source that meets the criteria of paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section with respect to a storage vessel, the storage vessel shall be assigned to that process unit. Applicability of this subpart to the storage vessel shall then
be determined according to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
(iv) If there are two or more process units at the major source that meet the criteria of paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section with respect to a storage vessel, the storage vessel shall be assigned to one of those process units according to the provisions of paragraphs (g)(3) through (g)(6) of this section. The predominant use shall be determined among only those process units that meet the criteria of paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section.
(8) If the storage vessel begins receiving material from (or sending material to) a process unit that was not included in the initial determination, or ceases to receive material from (or send material to) a process unit that was included in the initial determination, the owner or operator shall reevaluate the applicability of this subpart to that storage vessel.
(h)
Recovery operations equipment ownership determination.
The owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(6) of this section to determine to which process unit recovery operations equipment shall be assigned. Paragraph (h)(7) of this section specifies when an owner or operator is required to redetermine to which process unit the recovery operations equipment is assigned.
(1) If recovery operations equipment is already subject to another subpart of 40 CFR part 63 on September 5, 1996, that recovery operations equipment shall be assigned to the process unit subject to the other subpart.
(2) If recovery operations equipment is dedicated to a single process unit, the recovery operations equipment shall be assigned to that process unit.
(3) If recovery operations equipment is shared among process units, then the recovery operations equipment shall be assigned to that process unit located on the same plant site as the recovery operations equipment that has the greatest input into or output from the recovery operations equipment (i.e., that process unit has the predominant use of the recovery operations equipment).
(4) If predominant use cannot be determined for recovery operations equipment that is shared among process units and if one of those process units is an EPPU subject to this subpart, the recovery operations equipment shall be assigned to the EPPU subject to this subpart.
(5) If predominant use cannot be determined for recovery operation equipment that is shared among process units and if more than one of the process units are EPPUs that have different primary products and that are subject to this subpart, then the owner or operator shall assign the recovery operation equipment to any one of those EPPUs.
(6) If the predominant use of recovery operations equipment varies from year to year, then the predominant use shall be determined based on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding September 5, 1996 for existing affected sources or based on the expected utilization for the 5 years following September 5, 1996 for existing affected sources, whichever is the more representative of the expected operations for the recovery operations equipment, and based on the expected utilization for the first 5 years after initial start-up for new affected sources. The determination of predominant use shall be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status, as required by § 63.506(e)(5)(viii).
(7) If a piece of recovery operations equipment begins receiving material from a process unit that was not included in the initial determination, or ceases to receive material from a process unit that was included in the initial determination, the owner or operator shall reevaluate the applicability of this subpart to that recovery operations equipment.
(i)
Changes or additions to plant sites.
The provisions of paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(4) of this section apply to owners or operators that change or add to their plant site or affected source. Paragraph (i)(5) provides examples of what are and are not considered process changes for purposes of paragraph (i) of this section. Paragraph (i)(6) of this section discusses reporting requirements.
(1)
Adding an EPPU to a plant site.
The provisions of paragraphs (i)(1)(i) and (i)(1)(ii) of this section apply to
owners or operators that add one or more EPPUs to a plant site.
(i) If a group of one or more EPPUs that produce the same primary product is added to a plant site, the added group of one or more EPPUs and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, shall be a new affected source and shall comply with the requirements for a new affected source in this subpart upon initial start-up or by June 19, 2000, whichever is later, if the added group of one or more EPPUs meets the criteria in either paragraph (i)(1)(i)(A) or (i)(1)(i)(B) of this section, and if the criteria in either paragraph (i)(1)(i)(C) or (i)(1)(i)(D) of this section are met.
(A) The construction of the group of one or more EPPUs commenced after June 12, 1995.
(B) The construction or reconstruction, for process units that have become EPPUs, commenced after June 12, 1995.
(C) The group of one or more EPPUs and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, has the potential to emit 10 tons per year or more of any HAP or 25 tons per year or more of any combination of HAP, and the primary product of the group of one or more EPPUs is currently produced at the plant site as the primary product of an affected source; or
(D) The primary product of the group of one or more EPPUs is not currently produced at the plant site as the primary product of an affected source, and the plant site meets, or after the addition of the group of one or more EPPUs and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, will meet the definition of a major source.
(ii) If a group of one or more EPPUs that produce the same primary product is added to a plant site, and the group of one or more EPPUs does not meet the criteria specified in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section, and the plant site meets, or after the addition will meet, the definition of a major source, the group of one or more EPPUs and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, shall comply with the requirements for an existing affected source in this subpart upon initial start-up; by June 19, 2001; or by 6 months after notifying the Administrator that a process unit has been designated as an EPPU (in accordance with paragraph (f)(3)(iii) of this section), whichever is later.
(2)
Adding emission points or making process changes to existing affected sources.
The provisions of paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (i)(2)(ii) of this section apply to owners or operators that add emission points or make process changes to an existing affected source.
(i) If any components are replaced at an existing affected source such that the criteria specified in paragraphs (i)(2)(i)(A) through (i)(2)(i)(B) of this section are met, the entire affected source shall be a new affected source and shall comply with the requirements for a new affected source upon initial start-up or by June 19, 2000, whichever is later.
(A) The replacement of components meets the definition of reconstruction in § 63.482(b); and
(B) Such reconstruction commenced after June 12, 1995.
(ii) If any components are replaced at an existing affected source such that the criteria specified in paragraphs (i)(2)(i)(A) and (i)(2)(i)(B) of this section are not met and that replacement of components creates one or more emission points (i.e., either newly created Group 1 emission points or emission points that change from Group 2 to Group 1) or causes any other emission point to be added (i.e., Group 2 emission points, back-end process operations subject to §§ 63.493 and 63.500, and heat exchange systems and equipment leak components subject to § 63.502), the resulting emission point(s) shall be subject to the applicable requirements for an existing affected source. The resulting emission point(s) shall be in compliance by 120 days after the date of initial start-up or by the appropriate compliance date specified in § 63.481 (i.e., July 31, 1997 for most equipment leak components subject to § 63.502, and June 19, 2001 for emission points other than equipment leaks), whichever is later.
(iii) If an addition or process change (not including a process change that solely replaces components) is made that creates one or more Group 1 emission points (i.e., either newly created Group 1 emission points or emission
points that change group status from Group 2 to Group 1) or causes any other emission point to be added (i.e., Group 2 emission points, back-end process operations subject to §§ 63.493 through 63.500, and heat exchange systems and equipment leak components subject to § 63.502), the resulting emission point(s) shall be subject to the applicable requirements for an existing affected source. The resulting emission point(s) shall be in compliance by 120 days after the date of initial start-up or by the appropriate compliance date specified in § 63.481 (i.e., July 31, 1997 for most equipment leak components subject to § 63.502, and June 19, 2001 for emission points other than equipment leaks), whichever is later.
(3)
Existing affected source requirements for surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that become subject to subpart H requirements.
If a process change or the addition of an emission point causes a surge control vessel or bottoms receiver to become subject to § 63.170 under this paragraph (i), the owner or operator shall be in compliance upon initial start-up or by June 19, 2001, whichever is later.
(4)
Existing affected source requirements for compressors that become subject to subpart H requirements.
If a process change or the addition of an emission point causes a compressor to become subject to § 63.164 under this paragraph (i), the owner or operator shall be in compliance upon initial start-up or by the compliance date for that compressor, as specified in § 63.481(d), whichever is later.
(5)
Determining what are and are not process changes.
For purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, changes in feedstock type or process catalyst type, or whenever the replacement, removal, or addition of recovery equipment, or equipment changes that increase production capacity. For purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, process changes do not include: process upsets, unintentional temporary process changes, and changes that do not alter the equipment configuration and operating conditions.
(6)
Reporting requirements for owners or operators that change or add to their plant site or affected source.
Owners or operators that change or add to their plant site or affected source, as discussed in paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section, shall submit a report as specified in § 63.506(e)(7)(v).
(j)
Applicability of this subpart.
Paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section must be followed during periods of non-operation of the affected source or any part thereof.
(1) The emission limitations set forth in this subpart and the emission limitations referred to in this subpart shall apply at all times except during periods of non-operation of the affected source (or specific portion thereof) resulting in cessation of the emissions to which this subpart applies. However, if a period of non-operation of one portion of an affected source does not affect the ability of a particular emission point to comply with the emission limitations to which it is subject, then that emission point shall still be required to comply with the applicable emission limitations of this subpart during the period of non-operation. For example, if there is an overpressure in the reactor area, a storage vessel that is part of the affected source would still be required to be controlled in accordance with the emission limitations in § 63.484.
(2) The emission limitations set forth in subpart H of this part, as referred to in § 63.502, shall apply at all times, except during periods of non-operation of the affected source (or specific portion thereof) in which the lines are drained and depressurized, resulting in cessation of the emissions to which § 63.502 applies.
(3) The owner or operator shall not shut down items of equipment that are required or utilized for compliance with this subpart during times when emissions (or, where applicable, wastewater streams or residuals) are being routed to such items of equipment if the shutdown would contravene requirements of this subpart applicable to such items of equipment.
(4) Beginning on July 15, 2024, this paragraph (j)(4) no longer applies. In response to an action to enforce the standards set forth in this subpart, an owner or operator may assert an affirmative defense to a claim for civil
penalties for exceedances of such standards that are caused by a malfunction, as defined in § 63.2. Appropriate penalties may be assessed, however, if the owner or operator fails to meet the burden of proving all the requirements in the affirmative defense. The affirmative defense shall not be available for claims for injunctive relief.
(i) To establish the affirmative defense in any action to enforce such a limit, the owners or operators of a facility must timely meet the notification requirements of paragraph (j)(4)(ii) of this section, and must prove by a preponderance of evidence that:
(A) The excess emissions were caused by a sudden, infrequent, and unavoidable failure of air pollution control and monitoring equipment, or a process to operate in a normal and usual manner; and could not have been prevented through careful planning, proper design, or better operation and maintenance practices; did not stem from any activity or event that could have been foreseen and avoided, or planned for; and were not part of a recurring pattern indicative of inadequate design, operation, or maintenance;
(B) Repairs were made as expeditiously as possible when the applicable emission limitations were being exceeded. Off-shift and overtime labor were used, to the extent practicable to make these repairs;
(C) The frequency, amount, and duration of the excess emissions (including any bypass) were minimized to the maximum extent practicable during periods of such emissions;
(D) If the excess emissions resulted from a bypass of control equipment or a process, then the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage;
(E) All possible steps were taken to minimize the impact of the excess emissions on ambient air quality, the environment, and human health;
(F) All emissions monitoring and control systems were kept in operation, if at all possible, consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices;
(G) All of the actions in response to the excess emissions were documented by properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs;
(H) At all times, the facility was operated in a manner consistent with good practices for minimizing emissions; and
(I) The owner or operator has prepared a written root cause analysis, the purpose of which is to determine, correct, and eliminate the primary causes of the malfunction and the excess emissions resulting from the malfunction event at issue. The analysis shall also specify, using the best monitoring methods and engineering judgment, the amount of excess emissions that were the result of the malfunction.
(ii)
Notification.
The owner or operator of the facility experiencing an exceedance of its emission limit(s) during a malfunction shall notify the Administrator by telephone or facsimile (FAX) transmission as soon as possible, but no later than 2 business days after the initial occurrence of the malfunction, if it wishes to avail itself of an affirmative defense to civil penalties for that malfunction. The owner or operator seeking to assert an affirmative defense shall also submit a written report to the Administrator within 45 days of the initial occurrence of the exceedance of the standard in this subpart to demonstrate, with all necessary supporting documentation, that it has met the requirements set forth in paragraph (j)(4)(i) of this section. The owner or operator may seek an extension of this deadline for up to 30 additional days by submitting a written request to the Administrator before the expiration of the 45 day period. Until a request for an extension has been approved by the Administrator, the owner or operator is subject to the requirement to submit such report within 45 days of the initial occurrence of the exceedance.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38036, June 19, 2000; 66 FR 36927, July 16, 2001; 71 FR 20456, Apr. 20, 2006; 76 FR 22586, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43235, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.481
Compliance dates and relationship of this subpart to existing applicable rules.
(a) Affected sources are required to achieve compliance on or before the
dates specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section and paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section. Paragraph (e) of this section provides information on requesting compliance extensions. Paragraphs (f) through (l) of this section discuss the relationship of this subpart to subpart A and to other applicable rules. Where an override of another authority of the Act is indicated in this subpart, only compliance with the provisions of this subpart is required. Paragraph (m) of this section specifies the meaning of time periods.
(b) Except as specified in paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section, new affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after June 12, 1995 shall be in compliance with this subpart upon initial start-up or by June 19, 2000, whichever is later.
(c) With the exceptions provided in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section, existing affected sources shall be in compliance with this subpart no later than June 19, 2001, as provided in § 63.6(c), unless an extension has been granted as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(1) Existing affected sources producing epichlorohydrin elastomer, butyl rubber, neoprene rubber, and nitrile butadiene rubber shall be in compliance with the applicable emission limitation in § 63.494(a)(4) no later than April 23, 2012.
(2) Existing affected sources producing butyl rubber and ethylene propylene rubber shall be in compliance with § 63.485(q)(1) no later than April 23, 2012.
(3) Compliance with § 63.502 is covered by paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) Except as provided for in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(6) of this section, and paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section, existing affected sources shall be in compliance with § 63.502 no later than July 31, 1997, unless an extension has been granted pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
(1) Compliance with the compressor provisions of § 63.164 shall occur no later than September 5, 1997 for any compressor meeting one or more of the criteria in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iv) of this section, if the work can be accomplished without a process unit shutdown, as defined in § 63.161.
(i) The seal system will be replaced;
(ii) A barrier fluid system will be installed;
(iii) A new barrier fluid will be utilized which requires changes to the existing barrier fluid system; or
(iv) The compressor will be modified to permit connecting the compressor to a fuel gas system or closed vent system, or be modified so that emissions from the compressor can be routed to a process.
(2) Compliance with the compressor provisions of § 63.164 shall occur no later than March 5, 1998, for any compressor meeting all the criteria in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(iv) of this section.
(i) The compressor meets one or more of the criteria specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iv) of this section;
(ii) The work can be accomplished without a process unit shutdown as defined in § 63.161;
(iii) The additional time is actually necessary, due to the unavailability of parts beyond the control of the owner or operator; and
(iv) The owner or operator submits the request for a compliance extension to the appropriate U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Regional Office at the address listed in § 63.13 no later than 45 days before the compliance date. The request for a compliance extension shall contain the information specified in § 63.6(i)(6)(i)(A), (B), and (D). Unless the EPA Regional Office objects to the request for a compliance extension within 30 days after receipt of the request, the request shall be deemed approved.
(3) If compliance with the compressor provisions of § 63.164 cannot reasonably be achieved without a process unit shutdown, the owner or operator shall achieve compliance no later than September 5, 1998. The owner or operator who elects to use this provision shall submit a request for an extension of compliance in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section.
(4) Compliance with the compressor provisions of § 63.164 shall occur no later than September 5, 1999 for any
compressor meeting one or more of the criteria in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (d)(4)(iii) of this section. The owner or operator who elects to use these provisions shall submit a request for an extension of compliance in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section.
(i) Compliance cannot be achieved without replacing the compressor;
(ii) Compliance cannot be achieved without recasting the distance piece; or
(iii) Design modifications are required to connect to a closed-vent or recovery system.
(5) Compliance with the surge control vessel and bottoms receiver provisions of § 63.170 shall occur no later than June 19, 2001.
(6) Compliance with the heat exchange system provisions of § 63.104 shall occur no later than June 19, 2001.
(e) Pursuant to section 112(i)(3)(B) of the Act, an owner or operator may request an extension allowing the existing affected source up to 1 additional year to comply with section 112(d) standards. For purposes of this subpart, a request for an extension shall be submitted to the permitting authority as part of the operating permit application, or to the Administrator as a separate submittal or as part of the Precompliance Report. Requests for extensions shall be submitted no later than 120 days prior to the compliance dates specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, or as specified elsewhere in this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The dates specified in § 63.6(i) for submittal of requests for extensions shall not apply to this subpart.
(1) A request for an extension of compliance shall include the data described in § 63.6(i)(6)(i)(A), (B), and (D).
(2) The requirements in §§ 63.6(i)(8) through 63.6(i)(14) shall govern the review and approval of requests for extensions of compliance with this subpart.
(3) An owner or operator may submit a compliance extension request after the date specified in paragraph (e) of this section, provided that the need for the compliance extension arose after that date, and the need arose due to circumstances beyond reasonable control of the owner or operator. This request shall include, in addition to the information specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a statement of the reasons additional time is needed and the date when the owner or operator first learned of the circumstances necessitating a request for a compliance extension under this paragraph (e)(3).
(f) Table 1 of this subpart specifies the provisions of subpart A that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of affected sources subject to this subpart. For the purposes of this subpart, Table 3 of subpart F is not applicable.
(g) Table 2 of this subpart summarizes the provisions of subparts F, G, and H that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of affected sources subject to this subpart.
(h)(1) After the compliance dates specified in this section, an affected source subject to this subpart that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart I, is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart.
(2) Sources subject to 40 CFR part 63, subpart I that have elected to comply through a quality improvement program, as specified in § 63.175 or § 63.176 or both, may elect to continue these programs without interruption as a means of complying with this subpart. In other words, becoming subject to this subpart does not restart or reset the “compliance clock” as it relates to reduced burden earned through a quality improvement program.
(i) After the compliance dates specified in this section, a storage vessel that is assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart and that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. After the compliance dates specified in this section, that storage vessel shall no longer be subject to 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb.
(j) After the compliance dates specified in this section, an affected source subject to this subpart that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV, is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. After the compliance dates specified in this section, the source shall no longer
be subject to 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV.
(k)
Applicability of other regulations for monitoring, recordkeeping or reporting with respect to combustion devices, recovery devices, or recapture devices.
(1) After the compliance dates specified in this subpart, if any combustion device, recovery device or recapture device subject to this subpart is also subject to monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in 40 CFR part 264 subpart AA or CC, or is subject to monitoring and recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR part 265 subpart AA or CC and the owner or operator complies with the periodic reporting requirements under 40 CFR part 264 subpart AA or CC that would apply to the device if the facility had final-permitted status, the owner or operator may elect to comply either with the monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart, or with the monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements in 40 CFR parts 264 and/or 265, as described in this paragraph, which shall constitute compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart. The owner or operator shall identify which option has been selected in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5).
(2) Owners and operators of flares that are subject to the flare related requirements of this subpart and are also subject to flare related requirements of any other regulation in this part or 40 CFR part 61 or 63, may elect to comply with the requirements in § 63.508 in lieu of all flare related requirements in any other regulation in this part or 40 CFR part 61 or 63.
(l)
Applicability of other requirements for heat exchange systems or waste management units.
Paragraphs (l)(1) and (l)(2) of this section address instances in which certain requirements from other regulations also apply for the same heat exchange system(s) or waste management unit(s) that are subject to this subpart.
(1) After the applicable compliance date specified in this subpart, if a heat exchange system subject to this subpart is also subject to a standard identified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, compliance with the applicable provisions of the standard identified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section shall constitute compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart with respect to that heat exchange system.
(i) Subpart F of this part.
(ii) A subpart of this part which requires compliance with § 63.104 (e.g., subpart JJJ of this part).
(2) After the applicable compliance date specified in this subpart, if any waste management unit subject to this subpart is also subject to a standard identified in paragraph (l)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, compliance with the applicable provisions of the standard identified in paragraph (l)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section shall constitute compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart with respect to that waste management unit.
(i) Subpart G of this part.
(ii) A subpart of this part which requires compliance with §§ 63.132 through 63.147 (e.g., subpart JJJ of this part).
(m) All terms in this subpart that define a period of time for completion of required tasks (e.g., monthly, quarterly, annual), unless specified otherwise in the section or paragraph that imposes the requirement, refer to the standard calendar periods.
(1) Notwithstanding time periods specified in this subpart for completion of required tasks, such time periods may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator, as specified in subpart A of this part (e.g., a period could begin on the compliance date or another date, rather than on the first day of the standard calendar period). For each time period that is changed by agreement, the revised period shall remain in effect until it is changed. A new request is not necessary for each recurring period.
(2) Where the period specified for compliance is a standard calendar period, if the initial compliance date occurs after the beginning of the period, compliance shall be required according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) or (m)(2)(ii) of this section, as appropriate.
(i) Compliance shall be required before the end of the standard calendar
period within which the compliance deadline occurs, if there remain at least 2 weeks for tasks that shall be performed monthly, at least 1 month for tasks that shall be performed each quarter, or at least 3 months for tasks that shall be performed annually; or
(ii) In all other cases, compliance shall be required before the end of the first full standard calendar period after the period within which the initial compliance deadline occurs.
(3) In all instances where a provision of this subpart requires completion of a task during each of multiple successive periods, an owner or operator may perform the required task at any time during the specified period, provided that the task is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the task during the previous period.
(n) All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before April 25, 2023, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (n)(1) through (9) of this section upon initial startup or on July 15, 2027, whichever is later. All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after April 25, 2023, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (n)(1) through (9) of this section upon initial startup, or on July 15, 2024, whichever is later.
(1) The general requirements specified in § 63.483(e), § 63.504(a), § 63.504(a)(1)(iii), and § 63.506(e)(6)(iii)(C).
(2) For flares, the requirements specified in § 63.508.
(3) For storage vessels, the requirements specified in § 63.484(t) and § 63.506(e)(4)(ii)(F)(
6
).
(4) For continuous front-end process vents, the requirements specified in §§ 63.485(l)(6), (o)(6), (p)(5), (q)(1)(vii), (x), § 63.503(g)(2)(iii)(B)(
4
), and § 63.506(e)(4)(ii)(F)(
6
).
(5) For batch front-end process vents, the requirements specified in §§ 63.487(a)(3), (b)(3), and (e)(1)(iv) and (i), §§ 63.488(d)(2), (e)(4), (f)(2), and (g)(3), §§ 63.489(b)(10) and (d)(3), §§ 63.491(d)(1)(iii), (e)(6), and (h), § 63.492(g), and Table 6 to this subpart, item 3 in column 3 for diversion to the atmosphere and monthly inspections of sealed valves for all control devices.
(6) For back-end processes, the requirements specified in §§ 63.497(a)(8) and (d)(3), and § 63.498(d)(5)(v).
(7) For wastewater, the requirements specified in §§ 63.501(d), (e), and (f).
(8) For equipment leaks, the requirements specified in §§ 63.502(a)(2) and (k)(2).
(9) For heat exchange systems, the requirements specified in §§ 63.502(n)(7) and (n)(8).
(o) All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before April 25, 2023, must be in compliance with the chloroprene requirements in §§ 63.484(u), 63.485(y) and (z), 63.487(j), 63.494(a)(7), 63.501(a)(10)(iv), 63.502(a)(3) and (a)(7), 63.509, and 63.510 upon initial startup or on October 15, 2024, whichever is later. All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after April 25, 2023, must be in compliance with the chloroprene requirements in §§ 63.484(u), 63.485(x) and (z), 63.487(j), 63.494(a)(7), § 63.501(a)(10)(iv), 63.502(q), 63.502(a)(3) and (a)(7), 63.509, and 63.510 upon initial startup, or on July 15, 2024, whichever is later.
(p) The compliance schedule for fenceline monitoring is specified in paragraphs (p)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Except as specified in paragraph (p)(2) of this section, all affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before April 25, 2023, must commence fenceline monitoring according to the requirements in § 63.502(a)(4) by no later than July 15, 2026, however requirements for corrective actions are not required until on or after July 15, 2027. All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after April 25, 2023, must be in compliance with the fenceline monitoring requirements listed in § 63.502(a)(4) upon initial startup, or on July 15, 2024, whichever is later.
(2) For affected sources producing neoprene, the compliance schedule specified in paragraph (p)(1) of this section does not apply for chloroprene. Instead, all affected sources producing neoprene that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before April 25, 2023, must be in compliance with the fenceline monitoring requirements for chloroprene listed in § 63.502(a)(4) and
(a)(7) upon initial startup or on October 15, 2024, whichever is later. All affected sources producing neoprene that commenced construction or reconstruction after April 25, 2023, must be in compliance with the fenceline monitoring requirements for chloroprene listed in § 63.502(a)(4) and (a)(7) upon initial startup, or on July 15, 2024, whichever is later.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 1837, Jan. 14, 1997; 64 FR 11542, Mar. 9, 1999; 64 FR 35028, June 30, 1999; 65 FR 38042, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22587, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43236, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.482
Definitions.
(a) The following terms used in this subpart shall have the meaning given them in § 63.2, § 63.101, or the Act, as specified after each term:
Act (§ 63.2)
Administrator (§ 63.2)
Automated monitoring and recording system (§ 63.101)
Boiler (§ 63.101)
Bottoms receiver (§ 63.101)
Breakthrough (§ 63.101)
By compound (§ 63.101)
By-product (§ 63.101)
Car-seal (§ 63.101)
Closed-vent system (§ 63.101)
Combustion device (§ 63.101)
Commenced (§ 63.2)
Compliance date (§ 63.2)
Connector (§ 63.101)
Continuous monitoring system (§ 63.2)
Distillation unit (§ 63.101)
Duct work (§ 63.101)
Emission limitation (Section 302(k) of the Act)
Emission standard (§ 63.2)
Emissions averaging (§ 63.2)
EPA (§ 63.2)
Equipment leak (§ 63.101)
External floating roof (§ 63.101)
Fill or filling (§ 63.101)
Fixed capital cost (§ 63.2)
Flame zone (§ 63.101)
Floating roof (§ 63.101)
Flow indicator (§ 63.101)
Fuel gas system (§ 63.101)
Halogens and hydrogen halides (§ 63.101)
Hard-piping (§ 63.101)
Hazardous air pollutant (§ 63.2)
Heat exchange system (§ 63.101)
Impurity (§ 63.101)
Incinerator (§ 63.101)
In organic hazardous air pollutant service or in organic HAP service (§ 63.101)
Instrumentation system (§ 63.101)
Internal floating roof (§ 63.101)
Lesser quantity (§ 63.2)
Major source (§ 63.2)
Malfunction (§ 63.2)
Oil-water separator or organic-water separator (§ 63.101)
Open-ended valve or line (§ 63.101)
Operating permit (§ 63.101)
Organic monitoring device (§ 63.101)
Owner or operator (§ 63.2)
Performance evaluation (§ 63.2)
Performance test (§ 63.2)
Permitting authority (§ 63.2)
Plant site (§ 63.101)
Potential to emit (§ 63.2)
Pressure release (§ 63.101)
Primary fuel (§ 63.101)
Pressure release (§ 63.101)
Pressure relief device (§ 63.101)
Pressure vessel (§ 63.101)
Process heater (§ 63.101)
Process unit shutdown (§ 63.101)
Process wastewater (§ 63.101)
Process wastewater stream (§ 63.101)
Reactor (§ 63.101)
Recapture device (§ 63.101)
Relief valve (§ 63.101)
Repaired (§ 63.101)
Research and development facility (§ 63.101)
Routed to a process or route to a process (§ 63.101)
Run (§ 63.2)
Secondary fuel (§ 63.101)
Sensor (§ 63.101)
Specific gravity monitoring device (§ 63.101)
Start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan (§ 63.101) On and after July 15, 2027, this definition no longer applies.
State (§ 63.2)
Stationary Source (§ 63.2)
Surge control vessel (§ 63.101)
Temperature monitoring device (§ 63.101)
Test method (§ 63.2)
Treatment process (§ 63.101)
Unit operation (§ 63.101)
Visible emission (§ 63.2)
Secondary fuel (§ 63.101)
Sensor (§ 63.101)
Specific gravity monitoring device (§ 63.101)
Start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan (§ 63.101) On and after July 15, 2027, this definition no longer applies.
State (§ 63.2)
Stationary Source (§ 63.2)
Surge control vessel (§ 63.101)
Temperature monitoring device (§ 63.101)
Test method (§ 63.2)
Treatment process (§ 63.101)
Unit operation (§ 63.101)
Visible emission (§ 63.2)
(b) All other terms used in this subpart shall have the meaning given them in this section. If a term is defined in a subpart referenced in this section, it shall have the meaning given in this section for purposes of this subpart.
Affected source
is defined in § 63.480(a).
Affirmative defense
means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or a defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding. Beginning on July 15, 2024, this definition of
affirmative defense
no longer applies.
Aggregate batch vent stream
means a gaseous emission stream containing only the exhausts from two or more batch front-end process vents that are ducted, hard-piped, or otherwise connected together for a continuous flow.
Annual average batch vent concentration
is determined using Equation 17, as described in § 63.488(h)(2) for halogenated compounds.
Annual average batch vent flow rate
is determined by the procedures in § 63.488(e)(3).
Annual average concentration,
as used in the wastewater provisions, means the flow-weighted annual average concentration, as determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.144(b), with the exceptions noted in § 63.501, for the purposes of this subpart.
Annual average flow rate,
as used in the wastewater provisions, means the annual average flow rate, as determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.144(c), with the exceptions noted in § 63.501, for the purposes of this subpart.
Average batch vent concentration
is determined by the procedures in § 63.488(b)(5)(iii) for HAP concentrations and is determined by the procedures in § 63.488(h)(1)(iii) for organic compounds containing halogens and hydrogen halides.
Average batch vent flow rate
is determined by the procedures in § 63.488(e)(1) and (2).
Back-end
refers to the unit operations in an EPPU following the stripping operations. Back-end process operations include, but are not limited to, filtering, coagulation, blending, concentration, drying, separating, and other finishing operations, as well as latex and crumb storage. Back-end does not include storage and loading of finished product or emission points that are regulated under § 63.484, § 63.501, or § 63.502.
Batch cycle
means the operational step or steps, from start to finish, that occur as part of a batch unit operation.
Batch emission episode
means a discrete emission venting episode associated with a single batch unit operation. Multiple batch emission episodes may occur from a single batch unit operation.
Batch front-end process vent
means a process vent with annual organic HAP emissions greater than 225 kilograms per year from a batch unit operation within an affected source and located in the front-end of a process unit. Annual organic HAP emissions are determined as specified in § 63.488(b) at the location specified in § 63.488(a)(2).
Batch mass input limitation
means an enforceable restriction on the total mass of HAP or material that can be input to a batch unit operation in one year.
Batch mode
means the discontinuous bulk movement of material through a unit operation. Mass, temperature, concentration, and other properties may vary with time. For a unit operation operated in a batch mode (
i.e.,
batch unit operation), the addition of material and withdrawal of material do not typically occur simultaneously.
Batch process
means, for the purposes of this subpart, a process where the reactor(s) is operated in a batch mode.
Batch unit operation
means a unit operation operated in a batch mode.
Block polymer
means a polymer where the polymerization is controlled, usually by performing discrete polymerization steps, such that the final
polymer is arranged in a distinct pattern of repeating units of the same monomer.
Butyl rubber
means a copolymer of isobutylene and other monomers. Typical other monomers include isoprene and methylstyrene. A typical composition of butyl rubber is approximately 85- to 99-percent isobutylene, and 1- to 15-percent other monomers. Most butyl rubber is produced by precipitation polymerization, although other methods may be used. Halobutyl rubber is a type of butyl rubber elastomer produced using halogenated copolymers.
Combined vent stream,
as used in reference to batch front-end process vents, continuous front-end process vents, and aggregate batch vent streams, means the emissions from a combination of two or more of the aforementioned types of process vents. The primary occurrence of a combined vent stream is as combined emissions from a continuous front-end process vent and a batch front-end process vent.
Combustion device burner
means a device designed to mix and ignite fuel and air to provide a flame to heat and oxidize waste organic vapors in a combustion device.
Compounding unit
means a unit operation which blends, melts, and resolidifies solid polymers for the purpose of incorporating additives, colorants, or stabilizers into the final elastomer product. A unit operation whose primary purpose is to remove residual monomers from polymers is not a compounding unit.
Construction
means the on-site fabrication, erection, or installation of an affected source. Construction also means the on-site fabrication, erection, or installation of a process unit or combination of process units which subsequently becomes an affected source or part of an affected source, due to a change in primary product.
Continuous front-end process vent
means a process vent located in the front-end of a process unit and containing greater than 0.005 weight percent total organic HAP from a continuous unit operation within an affected source. The total organic HAP weight percent is determined after the last recovery device, as described in § 63.115(a), and is determined as specified in § 63.115(c).
Continuous mode
means the continuous movement of material through a unit operation. Mass, temperature, concentration, and other properties typically approach steady-state conditions. For a unit operation operated in a continuous mode (
i.e.,
continuous unit operation), the simultaneous addition of raw material and withdrawal of product is typical.
Continuous process
means, for the purposes of this subpart, a process where the reactor(s) is operated in a continuous mode.
Continuous record
means documentation, either in hard copy or computer readable form, of data values measured at least once every 15 minutes and recorded at the frequency specified in § 63.506(d) or (h).
Continuous recorder
means a data recording device that either records an instantaneous data value at least once every 15 minutes or records 1—hour or more frequent block average values.
Continuous unit operation
means a unit operation operated in a continuous mode.
Control device
is defined in § 63.111, except that the term “continuous front-end process vent” shall apply instead of the term “process vent,” for the purpose of this subpart.
Crumb rubber dry weight
means the weight of the polymer, minus the weight of water and residual organics.
Dioxins and furans
means total tetra- through octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.
Drawing unit
means a unit operation which converts polymer into a different shape by melting or mixing the polymer and then pulling it through an orifice to create a continuously extruded product.
Elastomer
means any polymer having a glass transition temperature lower than −10 °C, or a glass transition temperature between −10 °C and 25 °C that is capable of undergoing deformation (stretching) of several hundred percent and recovering essentially when the stress is removed. For the purposes of this subpart, resins are not considered to be elastomers.
Elastomer product
means one of the following types of products, as they are defined in this section:
(i) Butyl Rubber;
(ii) Epichlorohydrin Elastomer;
(iii) Ethylene Propylene Rubber;
(iv) Hypalon
TM
;
(v) Neoprene;
(vi) Nitrile Butadiene Rubber;
(vii) Nitrile Butadiene Latex;
(viii) Polybutadiene Rubber/Styrene Butadiene Rubber by Solution;
(ix) Polysulfide Rubber;
(x) Styrene Butadiene Rubber by Emulsion; and
(xi) Styrene Butadiene Latex.
Elastomer product process unit (EPPU)
means a collection of equipment assembled and connected by hard-piping or duct work, used to process raw materials and to manufacture an elastomer product as its primary product. This collection of equipment includes unit operations; recovery operations equipment; process vents; storage vessels, as determined in § 63.480(g); equipment that is identified in § 63.149; and the equipment that is subject to the equipment leak provisions as specified in § 63.502. Utilities, lines and equipment not containing process fluids, and other non-process lines, such as heating and cooling systems which do not combine their materials with those in the processes they serve, are not part of an elastomer product process unit. An elastomer product process unit consists of more than one unit operation.
Elastomer type
means one of the elastomers listed under “elastomer product” in this section. Each elastomer identified in that definition represents a different elastomer type.
Emission point
means an individual continuous front-end process vent, batch front-end process vent, back-end process vent, storage vessel, waste management unit, heat exchange system, or equipment leak, or equipment subject to § 63.149.
Emulsion process
means a process where the monomer(s) is dispersed in droplets throughout a water phase, with the aid of an emulsifying agent such as soap or a synthetic emulsifier. The polymerization occurs either within the emulsion droplet or in the aqueous phase.
Epichlorohydrin elastomer
means an elastomer formed from the polymerization or copolymerization of epichlorohydrin (EPI). The main epichlorohydrin elastomers are polyepichlorohydrin, epi-ethylene oxide (EO) copolymer, epi-allyl glycidyl ether (AGE) copolymer, and epi-EO-AGE terpolymer. Epoxies produced by the copolymerization of EPI and bisphenol A are not epichlorohydrin elastomers.
Equipment
means, for the purposes of the provisions in § 63.502(a) through (m) and the requirements in subpart H that are referred to in § 63.502(a) through (m), each pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, connector, surge control vessel, bottoms receiver, and instrumentation system in organic hazardous air pollutant service; and any control devices or systems required by subpart H of this part.
Ethylene-propylene rubber
means an ethylene-propylene copolymer or an ethylene-propylene terpolymer. Ethylene-propylene copolymers (EPM) result from the polymerization of ethylene and propylene and contain a saturated chain of the polymethylene type. Ethylene-propylene terpolymers (EPDM) are produced in a similar manner as EPM, except that a third monomer is added to the reaction sequence. Typical third monomers include ethylidene norbornene, 1,4-hexadiene, or dicyclopentadiene. Ethylidene norbornene is the most commonly used. The production process includes, but is not limited to, polymerization, recycle, recovery, and packaging operations. The polymerization reaction may occur in either a solution process or a suspension process.
Existing affected source
is defined in § 63.480(a)(3).
Existing process unit
means any process unit that is not a new process unit.
Extruding unit
means a unit operation which converts polymer into a different shape by melting or mixing the polymer and then forcing it through an orifice to create a continuously extruded product.
Flexible operation unit
means a process unit that manufactures different chemical products, polymers, or resins
periodically by alternating raw materials or operating conditions. These units are also referred to as campaign plants or blocked operations.
Front-end
refers to the unit operations in an EPPU prior to, and including, the stripping operations. For all gas-phased reaction processes, all unit operations are considered to be front-end.
Gas-phased reaction process
means an elastomer production process where the reaction occurs in a gas phase, fluidized bed.
Glass transition temperature
means the temperature at which an elastomer polymer becomes rigid and brittle.
Grade
means a group of recipes of an elastomer type having similar characteristics such as molecular weight, monomer composition, significant mooney values, and the presence or absence of extender oil and/or carbon black. More than one recipe may be used to produce the same grade.
Group 1 batch front-end process vent
means, before July 15, 2027, a batch front-end process vent releasing annual organic HAP emissions greater than or equal to 11,800 kg/yr and with a cutoff flow rate, calculated in accordance with § 63.488(f), greater than or equal to the annual average batch vent flow rate. Annual organic HAP emissions and annual average batch vent flow rate are determined at the exit of the batch unit operation, as described in § 63.488(a)(2). Annual organic HAP emissions are determined as specified in § 63.488(b), and annual average batch vent flow rate is determined as specified in § 63.488(e). On and after July 15, 2027, Group 1 batch front-end process vent means, each batch front-end process vent that, when combined, the sum of all these process vents would release annual organic HAP emissions greater than or equal to 4,536 kg/yr (10,000 lb/yr) as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.488(b).
Group 2 batch front-end process vent
means a batch front-end process vent that does not fall within the definition of a Group 1 batch front-end process vent.
Group 1 continuous front-end process vent
means, before July 15, 2027, a continuous front-end process vent for which the flow rate is greater than or equal to 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute, the total organic HAP concentration is greater than or equal to 50 parts per million by volume, and the total resource effectiveness index value, calculated according to § 63.115, is less than or equal to 1.0. On and after July 15, 2027, Group 1 continuous front-end process vent means a process vent that emits greater than or equal to 1.0 pound per hour of total organic HAP.
Group 2 continuous front-end process vent
means, before July 15, 2027, a continuous front-end process vent for which the flow rate is less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute, the total organic HAP concentration is less than 50 parts per million by volume, or the total resource effectiveness index value, calculated according to § 63.115, is greater than 1.0. On and after July 15, 2027, Group 2 continuous front-end process vent means a process vent that emits less than 1.0 pound per hour of total organic HAP.
Group 1 storage vessel
means a storage vessel at an existing affected source that meets the applicability criteria specified in Table 3 of this subpart, or a storage vessel at a new affected source that meets the applicability criteria specified in Table 4 of this subpart.
Group 2 storage vessel
means a storage vessel that does not fall within the definition of a Group 1 storage vessel.
Group 1 wastewater stream
means a wastewater stream consisting of process wastewater from an existing or new affected source that meets the criteria for Group 1 status in § 63.132(c), with the exceptions listed in § 63.501(a)(10) for the purposes of this subpart (
i.e.,
for organic HAP as defined in this section).
Group 2 wastewater stream
means any process wastewater stream that does not meet the definition of a Group 1 wastewater stream.
Halogenated aggregate batch vent stream
means an aggregate batch vent stream determined to have a total mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds of 3,750 kg/yr or greater determined by the procedures presented in § 63.488(h).
Halogenated batch front-end process vent
means a batch front-end process vent determined to have a mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in
organic compounds of 3,750 kg/yr or greater determined by the procedures presented in § 63.488(h).
Halogenated continuous front-end process vent
means a continuous front-end process vent determined to have a mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds of 0.45 kg/hr or greater determined by the procedures presented in § 63.115(d)(2)(v).
High conversion latex
means a latex where all monomers are reacted to at least 95 percent conversion.
Highest-HAP recipe
for a product means the recipe of the product with the highest total mass of HAP charged to the reactor during the production of a single batch of product.
Hypalon
TM
means a chlorosulfonated polyethylene that is a synthetic rubber produced for uses such as wire and cable insulation, shoe soles and heels, automotive components, and building products.
In chloroprene service
means the following:
(i) For process vents, each continuous front-end process vent, each batch front-end process vent, and each back-end process vent in a process at affected sources producing neoprene that, when uncontrolled, contains a concentration of greater than or equal to 1 ppmv undiluted chloroprene, and when combined, the sum of all these process vents within the process would emit uncontrolled, chloroprene emissions greater than or equal to 5 lb/yr (2.27 kg/yr). If information exists that suggests chloroprene could be present in a continuous front-end process vent, batch front-end process vent, or back-end process vent, then the process vent is considered to be “in chloroprene service” unless an analysis is performed as specified in § 63.509 to demonstrate that the process vent does not meet the definition of being “in chloroprene service”. Examples of information that could suggest chloroprene could be present in a process vent, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.
(ii) For storage vessels, storage vessels of any capacity and vapor pressure in a process at affected sources producing neoprene storing a liquid that is at least 0.1 percent by weight of chloroprene. If knowledge exists that suggests chloroprene could be present in a storage vessel, then the storage vessel is considered to be “in chloroprene service” unless the procedures specified in § 63.509 are performed to demonstrate that the storage vessel does not meet the definition of being “in chloroprene service”. The exemption for vessels “storing and/or handling material that contains no organic HAP, or organic HAP as impurities only” listed in the definition of “storage vessel” in this section does not apply for storage vessels that are in chloroprene service. Examples of information that could suggest chloroprene could be present in a storage vessel, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.
(iii) For wastewater streams, any wastewater stream in a process at affected sources producing neoprene that contains total annual average concentration of chloroprene greater than or equal to 10 parts per million by weight at any flow rate. If knowledge exists that suggests chloroprene could be present in a wastewater stream, then the wastewater stream is considered to be “in chloroprene service” unless sampling and analysis is performed as specified in § 63.509 to demonstrate that the wastewater stream does not meet the definition of being “in chloroprene service”. Examples of information that could suggest chloroprene could be present in a wastewater stream, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.
Initial start-up
means the first time a new or reconstructed affected source begins production of an elastomer product, or, for equipment added or changed as described in § 63.480(i), the first time the equipment is put into operation to produce an elastomer product. Initial start-up does not include operation solely for testing equipment.
Initial start-up does not include subsequent start-ups of an affected source or portion thereof following shutdowns, or following changes in product for flexible operation units, or following recharging of equipment in batch operation.
Latex
means a colloidal aqueous emulsion of elastomer. A latex may be further processed into finished products by direct use as a coating or as a foam, or it may be precipitated to separate the rubber particles, which are then used in dry state to prepare finished products.
Latex weight
includes the weight of the polymer and the weight of the water solution.
Maintenance wastewater
is defined in § 63.101, except that the term “elastomer product process unit” shall apply whenever the term “chemical manufacturing process unit” is used. Further, the generation of wastewater from the routine rinsing or washing of equipment in batch operation between batches is not maintenance wastewater, but is considered to be process wastewater, for the purposes of this subpart.
Maximum true vapor pressure
is defined in § 63.111, except that the terms “transfer” and “transferred” shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart.
Multicomponent system
means, as used in conjunction with batch front-end process vents, a stream whose liquid and/or vapor contains more than one compound.
Neoprene
means a polymer of chloroprene (2-chloro-1,3-butadiene). The free radical emulsion process is generally used to produce neoprene, although other methods may be used.
New process unit
means a process unit for which the construction or reconstruction commenced after June 12, 1995.
Nitrile butadiene latex
means a polymer consisting primarily of unsaturated nitriles and dienes, usually acrylonitrile and 1,3-butadiene, that is sold as a latex.
Nitrile butadiene rubber
means a polymer consisting primarily of unsaturated nitriles and dienes, usually acrylonitrile and 1,3-butadiene, not including nitrile butadiene latex.
On-site or on site
means, with respect to records required to be maintained by this subpart or required by another subpart referenced by this subpart, that records are stored at a location within a major source which encompasses the affected source. On-site includes, but is not limited to, storage at the affected source or EPPU to which the records pertain, or storage in central files elsewhere at the major source.
Operating day
means the period defined by the owner or operator in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5). The operating day is the period for which daily average monitoring values and batch cycle daily average monitoring values are determined.
Organic hazardous air pollutant(s) (organic HAP)
means one or more of the chemicals listed in table 5 to this subpart or any other chemical which:
(i) Is knowingly produced or introduced into the manufacturing process other than as an impurity; and
(ii) Is listed in table 2 to subpart F of this part.
Polybutadiene rubber by solution
means a polymer of 1,3-butadiene produced using a solution process.
Polysulfide rubber
means a polymer produced by reacting sodium polysulfide and chloroethyl formal. Polysulfide rubber may be produced as latexes or solid product.
Primary product
is defined in and determined by the procedures specified in § 63.480(f).
Process section
means the equipment designed to accomplish a general but well-defined task in polymers production. Process sections include raw materials preparation, polymerization reaction, and material recovery. A process section may be dedicated to a single EPPU or may be common to more than one EPPU.
Process unit
means a collection of equipment assembled and connected by hard-piping or duct work, used to process raw materials and to manufacture a product.
Process vent
means a gaseous emission stream from a unit operation that is discharged to the atmosphere either directly or after passing through one or more control, recovery, or recapture
devices. Unit operations that may have process vents are condensers, distillation units, reactors, or other unit operations within the EPPU. Process vents exclude pressure releases, gaseous streams routed to a fuel gas system(s), and leaks from equipment regulated under § 63.502. A gaseous emission stream is no longer considered to be a process vent after the stream has been controlled and monitored in accordance with the applicable provisions of this subpart.
Product
means a polymer produced using the same monomers, and varying in additives (
e.g.,
initiators, terminators, etc.); catalysts; or in the relative proportions of monomers, that is manufactured by a process unit. With respect to polymers, more than one recipe may be used to produce the same product, and there can be more than one grade of a product. As an example, styrene butadiene latex and butyl rubber each represent a different product. Product also means a chemical that is not a polymer, is manufactured by a process unit. By-products, isolated intermediates, impurities, wastes, and trace contaminants are not considered products.
Recipe
means a specific composition, from among the range of possible compositions that may occur within a product, as defined in this section. A recipe is determined by the proportions of monomers and, if present, other reactants and additives that are used to make the recipe. For example, styrene butadiene latex without additives; styrene butadiene latex with an additive; and styrene butadiene latex with different proportions of styrene to butadiene are all different recipes of the same product, styrene butadiene latex.
Reconstruction
means the replacement of components of an affected source or of a previously unaffected stationary source that becomes an affected source as a result of the replacement, to such an extent that:
(i) The fixed capital cost of the new components exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost that would be required to construct a comparable new source; and
(ii) It is technologically and economically feasible for the reconstructed source to meet the provisions of this subpart.
Recovery device
means:
(i) An individual unit of equipment capable of and normally used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for:
(A) Use;
(B) Reuse;
(C) Fuel value (
i.e.,
net heating value); or
(D) For sale for use, reuse, or fuel value (
i.e.,
net heating value).
(ii) Examples of equipment that may be recovery devices include absorbers, carbon adsorbers, condensers, oil-water separators or organic-water separators, or organic removal devices such as decanters, strippers, or thin film evaporation units. For the purposes of the monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting requirements of this subpart, recapture devices are considered recovery devices.
Recovery operations equipment
means the equipment used to separate the components of process streams. Recovery operations equipment includes distillation units, condensers, etc. Equipment used for wastewater treatment and recovery or recapture devices used as control devices shall not be considered recovery operations equipment.
Residual
is defined in § 63.111, except that when the definition in § 63.111 uses the term “table 9 compounds,” the term “organic HAP listed in table 5 to subpart U of this part” shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.
Resin,
for the purposes of this subpart, means a polymer with the following characteristics:
(i) The polymer is a block polymer;
(ii) The manufactured polymer does not require vulcanization to make useful products;
(iii) The polymer production process is operated to achieve at least 99 percent monomer conversion; and
(iv) The polymer process unit does not recycle unreacted monomer back to the process.
Shutdown
means for purposes including, but not limited to, periodic maintenance, replacement of equipment, or repair, the cessation of operation of an affected source, an EPPU within an affected source, a waste management unit or unit operation within an affected source, or equipment required or
used to comply with this subpart, or the emptying or degassing of a storage vessel. For purposes of the wastewater provisions of § 63.501, shutdown does not include the routine rinsing or washing of equipment in batch operation between batches. For purposes of the batch front-end process vent provisions in §§ 63.486 through 63.492, the cessation of equipment in batch operation is not a shutdown, unless the equipment undergoes maintenance, is replaced, or is repaired.
Solution process
means a process where both the monomers and the resulting polymers are dissolved in an organic solvent.
Start-up
means the setting into operation of an affected source, an EPPU within the affected source, a waste management unit or unit operation within an affected source, or equipment required or used to comply with this subpart, or a storage vessel after emptying and degassing. For both continuous and batch front-end processes, start-up includes initial start-up and operation solely for testing equipment. For both continuous and batch front-end processes, start-up does not include the recharging of equipment in batch operation. For continuous front-end processes, start-up includes transitional conditions due to changes in product for flexible operation units. For batch front-end processes, start-up does not include transitional conditions due to changes in product for flexible operation units.
Steady-state conditions
means that all variables (temperatures, pressures, volumes, flow rates, etc.) in a process do not vary significantly with time; minor fluctuations about constant mean values may occur.
Storage vessel
means a tank or other vessel that is used to store liquids that contain one or more organic HAP. Storage vessels do not include:
(i) Vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships;
(ii) Except for storage vessels in chloroprene service, vessels with capacities smaller than 38 cubic meters;
(iii) Except for storage vessels in chloroprene service, vessels and equipment storing and/or handling material that contains no organic HAP, or organic HAP as impurities only;
(iv) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers; and
(v) Wastewater storage tanks.
Stripper
means a unit operation where stripping occurs.
Stripping
means the removal of organic compounds from a raw elastomer product. In the production of an elastomer, stripping is a discrete step that occurs after the reactors and before the dryers (other than those dryers with a primary purpose of devolitalization) and other finishing operations. Examples of types of stripping include steam stripping, direct volatilization, chemical stripping, and other methods of devolatilization. For the purposes of this subpart, devolatilization that occurs in dryers (other than those dryers with a primary purpose of devolatilization), extruders, and other finishing operations is not stripping.
Styrene butadiene latex
means a polymer consisting primarily of styrene and butadiene monomer units produced using an emulsion process and sold as a latex.
Styrene butadiene rubber by emulsion
means a polymer consisting primarily of styrene and butadiene monomer units produced using an emulsion process. Styrene butadiene rubber by emulsion does not include styrene butadiene latex.
Styrene butadiene rubber by solution
means a polymer that consists primarily of styrene and butadiene monomer units and is produced using a solution process.
Supplemental combustion air
means the air that is added to a vent stream after the vent stream leaves the unit operation. Air that is part of the vent stream as a result of the nature of the unit operation is not considered supplemental combustion air. Air required to operate combustion device burner(s) is not considered supplemental combustion air. Air required to ensure the proper operation of catalytic oxidizers, to include the intermittent addition of air upstream of the catalyst bed to maintain a minimum threshold flow rate through the catalyst bed or to avoid excessive temperatures in the catalyst bed, is not considered to be supplemental combustion air.
Suspension process
means a polymerization process where the monomer(s) is in a state of suspension, with the help of suspending agents in a medium other than water (typically an organic solvent). The resulting polymers are not soluble in the reactor medium.
Total organic compounds (TOC)
means those compounds, excluding methane and ethane, measured according to the procedures of Method 18 or Method 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, respectively, or ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) as specified in this subpart.
Total resource effectiveness index value or TRE index value
means a measure of the supplemental total resource requirement per unit reduction of organic HAP associated with a continuous front-end process vent stream, based on vent stream flow rate, emission rate of organic HAP, net heating value, and corrosion properties (whether or not the continuous front-end process vent stream contains halogenated compounds), as quantified by the equations given under § 63.115, with the exceptions noted in § 63.485.
Vent stream,
as used in reference to batch front-end process vents, continuous front-end process vents, and aggregate batch vent streams, means the emissions from one or more process vents.
Waste management unit
is defined in § 63.111, except that where the definition in § 63.111 uses the term “chemical manufacturing process unit,” the term “EPPU” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
Wastewater
means water that:
(i) Contains either:
(A) An annual average concentration of organic HAP listed in table 5 to this subpart of at least 5 parts per million by weight and has an annual average flow rate of 0.02 liter per minute or greater; or
(B) An annual average concentration of organic HAP listed in table 5 to this subpart of at least 10,000 parts per million by weight at any flow rate; and
(ii) Is discarded from an EPPU that is part of an affected source. Wastewater is process wastewater or maintenance wastewater.
Wastewater stream
means a stream that contains wastewater as defined in this section.
[89 FR 43237, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.483
Emission standards.
(a) At all times, each owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source subject to the requirements of this subpart, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by this standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source. Except as allowed under paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the owner or operator of an existing or new affected source shall comply with the provisions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(9) of this section.
(1) Section 63.484 for storage vessels;
(2) Section 63.485 for continuous front-end process vents;
(3) Sections 63.486 through 63.492 for batch front-end process vents;
(4) Sections 63.493 through 63.500 for back-end process operations;
(5) Section 63.501 for wastewater;
(6) Section 63.502 for equipment leaks;
(7) Section 63.504 for additional test methods and procedures;
(8) Section 63.505 for monitoring levels and excursions; and
(9) Section 63.506 for general reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(b) When emissions of different kinds (i.e., emissions from continuous front-end process vents, batch front-end process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, storage vessels, process wastewater, and/or in-process equipment subject to § 63.149) are combined, and at least one of the emission streams
would be classified as Group 1 in the absence of combination with other emission streams, the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, as appropriate. For purposes of this paragraph (b), owners or operators of affected sources with combined emission streams containing one or more batch front-end process vents and containing one or more continuous front-end process vents may comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, as appropriate. For purposes of this paragraph (b), owners or operators of affected sources with combined emission streams containing one or more batch front-end process vents but not containing one or more continuous process vents shall comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(1) Comply with the applicable requirements of this subpart for each kind of emission in the stream as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section.
(2) Comply with the first set of requirements, identified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v) of this section, which applies to any individual emission stream that is included in the combined stream, where either that emission stream would be classified as Group 1 in the absence of combination with other emission streams, or the owner or operator chooses to consider that emission stream to be Group 1 for purposes of this paragraph. Compliance with the first applicable set of requirements identified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v) of this section constitutes compliance with all other requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v) of this section applicable to other types of emissions in the combined stream.
(i) The requirements of this subpart for Group 1 continuous front-end process vents, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting;
(ii) The requirements of § 63.119(e), as specified in § 63.484, for control of emissions from Group 1 storage vessels, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting;
(iii) The requirements of § 63.139, as specified in § 63.501, for control devices used to control emissions from waste management units, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting;
(iv) The requirements of § 63.139, as specified in § 63.501, for closed vent systems for control of emissions from in-process equipment subject to § 63.149, as specified in § 63.501, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting; or
(v) The requirements of this subpart for aggregate batch vent streams, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting.
(3) The owner or operator of an affected source with combined emission streams containing one or more batch front-end process vents, but not containing one or more continuous front-end process vents, shall comply with paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with § 63.486 for the batch front-end process vent stream(s).
(ii) The owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, as appropriate, for the remaining emission streams.
(c) Instead of complying with §§ 63.484, 63.485, 63.493, and 63.501, the owner or operator of an existing affected source may elect to control any or all of the storage vessels, continuous front-end process vents, batch front-end process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, back-end process emissions, and wastewater streams and associated waste management units within the affected source, to different levels using an emissions averaging compliance approach that uses the procedures specified in § 63.503. The restrictions concerning which emission points may be included in an emissions average, including how many emission points may be included, are specified in § 63.503(a)(1). An owner or operator electing to use emissions averaging shall still comply with the provisions of §§ 63.484, 63.485, 63. 486, 63.493, and 63.501 for affected source emission points not included in the emissions average.
(d) A State may decide not to allow the use of the emissions averaging
compliance approach specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), owners and operators of sources as defined in § 63.480 shall comply with the requirements of this subpart at all times, except during periods of nonoperation of the source (or specific portion thereof) resulting in cessation of the emissions to which this subpart applies.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38048, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22588, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43242, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.484
Storage vessel provisions.
(a) This section applies to each storage vessel that is assigned to an affected source, as determined by § 63.480(g). Except for those storage vessels exempted by paragraph (b) of this section, the owner or operator of affected sources shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.119 through 63.123 and 63.148, with the differences noted in paragraphs (c) through (u) of this section, for the purposes of this subpart.
(b) Storage vessels described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section are exempt from the storage vessel requirements of this section.
(1) Storage vessels containing styrene-butadiene latex;
(2) Storage vessels containing latex products other than styrene-butadiene latex, located downstream of the stripping operations;
(3) Storage vessels containing high conversion latex products;
(4) Storage vessels located downstream of the stripping operations at affected sources subject to the back-end residual organic HAP limitation located in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), that are complying through the use of stripping technology, as specified in § 63.495;
(5) Storage vessels containing styrene;
(6) Storage vessels containing acrylamide; and
(7) Storage vessels containing epichlorohydrin.
(c) When the term “storage vessel” is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(d) When the term “Group 1 storage vessel” is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(e) When the term “Group 2 storage vessel” is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(f) When the emissions averaging provisions of § 63.150 are referred to in § 63.119 and § 63.123, the emissions averaging provisions contained in § 63.503 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(g) When December 31, 1992 is referred to in § 63.119, June 12, 1995 shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart.
(h) When April 22, 1994 is referred to in § 63.119, June 19, 2000 shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart.
(i) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with this paragraph instead of § 63.120(d)(1)(ii) for the purposes of this subpart. If the control device used to comply with § 63.119(e) is also used to comply with any of the requirements found in §§ 63.485 through 63.501, the performance test required in or accepted by the applicable requirements in §§ 63.485 through 63.501 is acceptable for demonstrating compliance with § 63.119(e), for the purposes of this subpart. The owner or operator will not be required to prepare a design evaluation for the control device as described in § 63.120(d)(1)(i), if the performance test meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section.
(1) The performance test demonstrates that the control device achieves greater than or equal to the required control efficiency specified in § 63.119(e)(1) or § 63.119(e)(2), as applicable; and
(2) The performance test is submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5). If the performance test report is submitted electronically through the EPA's CEDRI in accordance with § 63.152(h), the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the notification of compliance status report in
lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the notification of compliance status report is submitted.
(j) When the term “range” is used in §§ 63.120(d)(3)(i), 63.120(d)(5), and 63.122(g)(2), the term “level” shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart.
(k) For purposes of this subpart, the monitoring plan required by § 63.120(d)(2) shall specify for which control devices the owner or operator has selected to follow the procedures for continuous monitoring specified in § 63.505. For those control devices for which the owner or operator has selected to not follow the procedures for continuous monitoring specified in § 63.505, the monitoring plan shall include a description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control device is being properly operated and maintained, an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters), and the frequency with which monitoring will be performed (e.g., when the liquid level in the storage vessel is being raised), as specified in § 63.120(d)(2)(i).
(l) For purposes of this subpart, the monitoring plan required by § 63.122(b) shall be included in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5).
(m) When the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.152(b) are referred to in §§ 63.120, 63.122, and 63.123, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(5) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(n) When the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) are referred to in §§ 63.120 and 63.122, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(6) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(o) When other reports as required in § 63.152(d) are referred to in § 63.122, the reporting requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(7) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(p) When the Initial Notification requirements contained in § 63.151(b) are referred to in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, for the purposes of this subpart the owner or operator of an affected source need not comply.
(q) When the determination of equivalence criteria in § 63.102(b) are referred to in § 63.121(a), the provisions in § 63.6(g) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(r) When § 63.119(a) requires compliance according to the schedule provisions in § 63.100, owners and operators of affected sources shall instead comply with the requirements in §§ 63.119(a)(1) through 63.119(a)(4) by the compliance date for storage vessels, which is specified in § 63.481.
(s) In § 63.120(e)(1), instead of the reference to § 63.11(b), the requirements of § 63.504(c) shall apply.
(t) Owners and operators of affected sources must make the substitutions as specified in paragraphs (t)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480” for each occurrence of the phrase “For each source as defined in § 63.101”.
(2) Substitute “beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n)” for each occurrence of the phrase “beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10)”.
(3) Substitute “owners and operators of affected sources as described in § 63.480” for each occurrence of the phrase “owners and operators of sources as defined in § 63.101”.
(4) Substitute “§ 63.508” for each occurrence of “§ 63.108”.
(u) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(o), if the storage vessel (of any capacity and vapor pressure) stores liquid containing chloroprene such that the storage vessel is considered to be in chloroprene service, as defined in § 63.482, then the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (u)(1) through (3) of this section in addition to all other applicable requirements specified in § 63.483 and elsewhere in this section.
(1) Reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene by greater than or equal to 98 percent by weight, or to a concentration less than
1 ppmv for each storage vessel vent. If a combustion device is used, the chloroprene concentration of 1 ppmv must be corrected to 3 percent oxygen.
(2) To demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified in paragraph (u)(1) of this section for storage vessels in chloroprene service, owners and operators must meet the requirements specified in § 63.510.
(3) Owners and operators must keep the records specified in paragraphs (u)(3)(i) and (u)(3)(ii) of this section in addition to those records specified elsewhere in this section.
(i) For storage vessels in chloroprene service, records of the concentration of chloroprene of the fluid stored in each storage vessel.
(ii) The owner or operator must keep records of all periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.510(b)(4) through (6) when regulated material is being routed to the non-flare control device. The record must specify the operating parameter, the applicable limit, and the highest (for maximum operating limits) or lowest (for minimum operating limits) value recorded during the period.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38049, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22588, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43242, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.485
Continuous front-end process vent provisions.
(a) For each continuous front-end process vent located at an affected source, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.113 through 63.118, except as provided for in paragraphs (b) through (z) of this section. The owner or operator of continuous front-end process vents that are combined with one or more batch front-end process vents shall comply with paragraph (o) or (p) of this section.
(b) When the term “process vent” is used in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, the term “continuous front-end process vent,” and the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(c) When the term “halogenated process vent” is used in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, the term “halogenated continuous front-end process vent,” and the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(d) When the term “Group 1 process vent” is used in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, the term “Group 1 continuous front-end process vent,” and the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(e) When the term “Group 2 process vent” is used in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, the term “Group 2 continuous front-end process vent,” and the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(f) When December 31, 1992 (i.e., the proposal date for subpart G of this part) is referred to in § 63.113, June 12, 1995 shall instead apply, for the purposes of this subpart.
(g) When §§ 63.151(f), alternative monitoring parameters, and 63.152(e), submission of an operating permit, are referred to in §§ 63.114(c) and 63.117(e), 63.506(f), alternative monitoring parameters, and § 63.506(e)(8), submission of an operating permit, respectively, shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(h) When the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.152(b) are referred to in §§ 63.114, 63.117, and 63.118, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(5) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(i) When the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) are referred to in §§ 63.117 and 63.118, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(6) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(j) When the definition of excursion in § 63.152(c)(2)(ii)(A) is referred to in § 63.118(f)(2), the definition of excursion in § 63.505(g) and (h) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(k) When § 63.114(e) or § 63.117(f) specifies that an owner or operator shall submit the information required in § 63.152(b) in order to establish the parameter monitoring range, the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the provisions of § 63.505 for establishing the parameter monitoring level and shall comply with § 63.506(e)(5) for the purposes of reporting information related to the establishment of the parameter monitoring level, for the purposes of this subpart. Further, the term “level” shall apply
whenever the term “range” is used in §§ 63.114, 63.117, and 63.118.
(l) When reports of process changes are required under § 63.118(g), (h), (i), or (j), paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(4) of this section shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, for the purposes of this subpart paragraph (l)(5) of this section applies, and § 63.118(k) does not apply to owners or operators of affected sources.
(1) For the purposes of this subpart, whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent to become a Group 1 continuous front-end process vent, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report of the process change, and the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the Group 1 provisions in §§ 63.113 through 63.118 in accordance with § 63.480(i)(2)(ii) or (i)(2)(iii), as applicable.
(2) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent with a TRE greater than 4.0 to become a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent with a TRE less than 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report of the process change, and the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in § 63.113(d) by the dates specified in § 63.481.
(3) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent with a flow rate less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute (scmm) to become a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent with a flow rate of 0.005 scmm or greater and a TRE index value less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report of the process change, and the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in § 63.113(d) by the dates specified in § 63.481.
(4) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent with an organic HAP concentration less than 50 parts per million by volume (ppmv) to become a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent with an organic HAP concentration of 50 ppmv or greater and a TRE index value less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report of the process change, and the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in § 63.113(d) by the dates specified in § 63.481.
(5) The owner or operator is not required to submit a report of a process change if one of the conditions listed in paragraphs (l)(5)(i), (l)(5)(ii), (l)(5)(iii), or (l)(5)(iv) of this section is met.
(i) The change does not meet the description of a process change in § 63.115(e);
(ii) The vent stream flow rate is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) and the recalculated value is less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute;
(iii) The organic HAP concentration of the vent stream is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) and the recalculated value is less than 50 parts per million by volume; or
(iv) The TRE index value is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) and the recalculated value is greater than 4.0.
(m) When § 63.118 (periodic reporting and recordkeeping requirements) refers to § 63.152(f), the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.506(d) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(n) When §§ 63.115 and 63.116 refer to Table 2 of subpart F of this part, the owner or operator is only required to consider organic HAP listed on Table 5 of this subpart, for the purposes of this subpart.
(o) If a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous front-end process vent, the owner or operator of the
affected source containing the combined vent stream shall comply with paragraph (o)(1); with paragraph (o)(2) and with paragraph (o)(3) or (o)(4); or with paragraph (o)(5) of this section, as appropriate.
(1) If a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 1 continuous front-end process vent prior to the combined vent stream being routed to a control device, the owner or operator of the affected source containing the combined vent stream shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (o)(1)(i) or (o)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) All requirements for a Group 1 process vent stream in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, except as otherwise provided in this section. As specified in § 63.504(a)(1), performance tests shall be conducted at maximum representative operating conditions. For the purpose of conducting a performance test on a combined vent stream, maximum representative operating conditions shall be when batch emission episodes are occurring that result in the highest organic HAP emission rate (for the combined vent stream) that is achievable during one of the periods listed in § 63.504(a)(1)(i) or § 63.504(a)(1)(ii), without causing any of the situations described in paragraphs (o)(1)(i)(A) through (o)(1)(i)(C) of this section to occur.
(A) Causing damage to equipment;
(B) Necessitating that the owner or operator make product that does not meet an existing specification for sale to a customer; or
(C) Necessitating that the owner or operator make product in excess of demand.
(ii) Comply with the provisions in § 63.483(b)(1), as allowed under § 63.483(b).
(2) If a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous front-end process vent prior to the combined vent stream being routed to a recovery device, the TRE index value for the combined vent stream shall be calculated at the exit of the last recovery device. The TRE shall be calculated during periods when one or more batch emission episodes are occurring that result in the highest organic HAP emission rate (in the combined vent stream that is being routed to the recovery device) that is achievable during the 6-month period that begins 3 months before and ends 3 months after the TRE calculation, without causing any of the situations described in paragraphs (o)(2)(i) through (o)(2)(iii) of this section to occur.
(i) Causing damage to equipment;
(ii) Necessitating that the owner or operator make product that does not meet an existing specification for sale to a customer; or
(iii) Necessitating that the owner or operator make product in excess of demand.
(3) If the combined vent stream described in paragraph (o)(2) of this section meets the requirements in paragraphs (o)(3)(i), (o)(3)(ii), and (o)(3)(iii) of this section, the combined vent stream shall be subject to the requirements for Group 1 process vents in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, except as otherwise provided in this section, as applicable. Performance tests for the combined vent stream shall be conducted at maximum representative operating conditions, as described in paragraph (o)(1) of this section.
(i) The TRE index value of the combined stream is less than or equal to 1.0;
(ii) The flow rate of the combined vent stream is greater than or equal to 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute; and
(iii) The total organic HAP concentration is greater than or equal to 50 parts per million by volume for the combined vent stream.
(4) If the combined vent stream described in paragraph (o)(2) of this section meets the requirements in paragraph (o)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, the combined vent stream shall be subject to the requirements for Group 2 process vents in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, except as otherwise provided in this section, as applicable.
(i) The TRE index value of the combined vent stream is greater than 1.0;
(ii) The flow rate of the combined vent stream is less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute; or
(iii) The total organic HAP concentration is less than 50 parts per million by volume for the combined vent stream.
(5) If a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in either paragraph (o)(5)(i) or (o)(5)(ii) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in §§ 63.113 through 63.118 for Group 1 process vents; or
(ii) The owner or operator shall comply with § 63.487(e)(2) for batch front-end process vents and aggregate batch vent streams.
(p) If any gas stream that originates outside of an affected source that is subject to this subpart is normally conducted through the same final recovery device as any continuous front-end process vent stream subject to this subpart, the combined vent stream shall comply with all requirements in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, except as otherwise provided in this section, as applicable.
(1) Instead of measuring the vent stream flow rate at the sampling site specified in § 63.115(b)(1), the sampling site for vent stream flow rate shall be prior to the final recovery device and prior to the point at which the gas stream that is not controlled under this subpart is introduced into the combined vent stream.
(2) Instead of measuring total organic HAP or TOC concentrations at the sampling site specified in § 63.115(c)(1), the sampling site for total organic HAP or TOC concentration shall be prior to the final recovery device and prior to the point at which the gas stream that is not controlled under this subpart is introduced into the combined vent stream.
(3) Except as specified in paragraph (p)(5) of this section, the efficiency of the final recovery device (determined according to paragraph (p)(4) of this section) shall be applied to the total organic HAP or TOC concentration measured at the sampling site described in paragraph (p)(2) of this section to determine the exit concentration. This exit concentration of total organic HAP or TOC shall then be used to perform the calculations outlined in § 63.115(d)(2)(iii) and § 63.115(d)(2)(iv), for the combined vent stream exiting the final recovery device.
(4) The efficiency of the final recovery device is determined by measuring the total organic HAP or TOC concentration using Method 18 or 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, at the inlet to the final recovery device after the introduction of any gas stream that is not controlled under this subpart, and at the outlet of the final recovery device.
(5) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), the last sentence in paragraph (p)(3) of this section: “This exit concentration of total organic HAP or TOC shall then be used to perform the calculations outlined in § 63.115(d)(2)(iii) and § 63.115(d)(2)(iv), for the combined vent stream exiting the final recovery device.” no longer applies.
(q) Group 1 halogenated continuous front-end process vents must comply with the provisions of § 63.113(a)(1)(ii) and § 63.113(c), with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (q)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Group 1 halogenated continuous front-end process vents at existing affected sources producing butyl rubber or ethylene propylene rubber using a solution process are exempt from the provisions of § 63.113(a)(1)(ii) and § 63.113(c) if the conditions in paragraphs (q)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section are met, and shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (q)(1)(iii) through (vi) of this section. Group 1 halogenated continuous front-end process vents at new affected sources producing butyl rubber or ethylene propylene rubber using a solution process are not exempt from § 63.113(a)(1)(ii) and § 63.113(c).
(i) If the halogenated continuous front-end process vent stream was controlled by a combustion device prior to June 12, 1995; and
(ii) Except as specified in paragraph (q)(3) of this section, if the requirements of § 63.113(a)(2); § 63.113(a)(3);
§ 63.113(b) and the associated testing requirements in § 63.116; or § 63.11(b) and § 63.504(c) are met.
(iii) The average HCl emissions from all front-end process operations at affected sources producing butyl rubber and ethylene propylene rubber using a solution process shall not exceed the limits determined in accordance with paragraphs (q)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section for any consecutive 12-month period. The specific limitation for each elastomer type shall be determined based on the calculation or the emissions level provided in paragraphs (q)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section divided by the base year elastomer product that leaves the stripping operation (or the reactor(s), if the plant has no stripper(s)). The limitation shall be calculated and submitted in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(iv) of this section.
(A) For butyl rubber, the HCl emission limitation shall be calculated using the following equation:
ER21AP11.002
Where:
HCl
2010
= HCl emissions in 2010, megagrams per year (Mg/yr)
BRHClEL = Butyl rubber HCl emission limit, Mg HCl emissions/Mg butyl rubber produced
P
2010
= Total elastomer product leaving the stripper in 2010, Mg/yr
1.74 = variability factor, unitless
(B) For ethylene propylene rubber using a solution process, the HCl emission limitation, in units of Mg HCl emissions per Mg of ethylene propylene rubber produced, shall be calculated by dividing 27 Mg/yr by the mass of ethylene propylene rubber produced in 2010, in Mg.
(iv) If the front-end process operation is subject to a HCl emission limitation in paragraph (q)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner and operator must submit the information specified in paragraphs (q)(1)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) The applicable HCl emission limitation determined in accordance with paragraphs (q)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section shall be submitted no later than 180 days from the date of publication of the final rule amendments in the
Federal Register.
(B) Beginning with the first periodic report required to be submitted by § 63.506(e)(6) that is at least 13 months after the compliance date, the total mass of HCl emitted for each of the rolling 12-month periods in the reporting period divided by the total mass of elastomer produced during the corresponding 12-month period, determined in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(v) of this section.
(v) Compliance with the HCl emission limitations determined in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(iii) of this section shall be demonstrated in accordance with paragraphs (q)(1)(v)(A) through (E) of this section.
(A) Calculate your HCl emission limitation in accordance with paragraphs (q)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section, as applicable, record it, and submit it in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(iv) of this section.
(B) Each month, calculate and record the HCl emissions from all front-end process operations using engineering assessment. Engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(
1
) Use of material balances;
(
2
) Estimation of flow rate based on physical equipment design, such as pump or blower capacities;
(
3
) Estimation of HCl concentrations based on saturation conditions; and
(
4
) Estimation of HCl concentrations based on grab samples of the liquid or vapor.
(C) Each month, record the mass of elastomer product produced.
(D) Each month, calculate and record the sum of the HCl emissions and the mass of elastomer produced for the previous calendar 12-month period.
(E) Each month, divide the total mass of HCl emitted for the previous calendar 12-month period by the total
mass of elastomer produced during this 12-month period. This value must be recorded in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(vi) of this section and reported in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(iv) of this section.
(vi) If the front-end process operation is subject to an HCl emission limitation in paragraph (q)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (q)(1)(vi)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) The applicable HCl emission limitation determined in accordance with paragraphs (q)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(B) The HCl emissions from all front-end process operations for each month, along with documentation of all calculations, and other information used in the engineering assessment to estimate these emissions.
(C) The mass of elastomer product produced each month.
(D) The total mass of HCl emitted for each 12-month period divided by the total mass of elastomer produced during the 12-month period, determined in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(v) of this section.
(2) Except as specified in paragraph (q)(3) of this section, Group 1 halogenated continuous front-end process vents at new and existing affected sources producing an elastomer using a gas-phased reaction process, provided that the requirements of § 63.113(a)(2); § 63.113(a)(3); § 63.113(b) and the associated testing requirements in § 63.116; or § 63.11(b) and § 63.504(c) are met.
(3) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraphs (q)(1)(ii) and (q)(2) of this section no longer apply. Instead, the requirements of § 63.113(a)(2); §§ 63.113(b) and the associated testing requirements in § 63.116; or § 63.508 must be met.
(r) The compliance date for continuous front-end process vents subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.481.
(s)
Internal combustion engines.
In addition to the three options for the control of a Group 1 continuous front-end process vent listed in § 63.113(a)(1) through (3), except as specified in § 63.113(a)(4) of subpart G of this part, an owner or operator will be permitted to route emissions of organic HAP to an internal combustion engine, provided the conditions listed in paragraphs (s)(1) through (s)(5) of this section are met.
(1) The vent stream routed to the internal combustion engine shall not be a halogenated continuous front-end process vent stream.
(2) The organic HAP is introduced with the primary fuel.
(3) The internal combustion engine is operating at all times that organic HAP emissions are being routed to it. The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the internal combustion engine is operating by continuously monitoring the on/off status of the internal combustion engine.
(4) The owner or operator shall maintain hourly records verifying that the internal combustion engine was operating at all times that emissions were routed to it.
(5) The owner or operator shall include in the Periodic Report a report of all times that the internal combustion engine was not operating while emissions were being routed to it. Include the start date and time and end date and time for all such periods.
(6) If an internal combustion engine meeting the requirements of paragraphs (s)(1) through (5) of this section is used to comply with the provisions of § 63.113(a), the internal combustion engine is exempt from the source testing requirements of § 63.116.
(t) When the provisions of § 63.116(c)(3) and (4) specify that Method 18 of appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60 must be used, Method 18 or Method 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, respectively, may be used for the purposes of this subpart. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. The use of Method 25A must conform with the requirements in paragraphs (t)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of appendix
A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 must be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.
(2) [Reserved]
(u) In § 63.116(a), instead of the reference to § 63.11(b), the requirements in § 63.504(c) shall apply.
(v) When a combustion device is used to comply with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard specified in § 63.113(a)(2), the correction to 3 percent oxygen is only required when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, the correction to 3 percent oxygen specified in § 63.116(c)(3) and (c)(3)(iii) is only required when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart. Finally, when a combustion device is used to comply with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard specified in § 63.113(a)(2), an owner or operator shall record and report the outlet concentration required in § 63.117(a)(4)(ii) and (a)(4)(iv) corrected to 3 percent oxygen when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart. When supplemental combustion air is not used to combust the emissions, an owner or operator may record and report the outlet concentration required in § 63.117(a)(4)(ii) and (a)(4)(iv) on an uncorrected basis or corrected to 3 percent oxygen, for the purposes of this subpart.
(w)
Shutdown.
(1) During periods of shutdown, a Group 1 continuous front-end process vent at an existing affected source producing butyl rubber or ethylene propylene rubber using a solution process must be routed to a flare until either the organic HAP concentration in the vent is less than 50 ppmv, or the vent pressure is below 103.421 kPa.
(x) Owners and operators of affected sources must make the substitutions as specified in paragraphs (x)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480” for each occurrence of the phrase “For each source as defined in § 63.101”.
(2) Substitute “beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n)” for each occurrence of the phrase “beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10)”.
(3) Substitute “owners and operators of affected sources as described in § 63.480” for each occurrence of the phrase “owners and operators of sources as defined in § 63.101”.
(4) Substitute “§ 63.508” for each occurrence of “§ 63.108”.
(y) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(o), if the Group 1 or Group 2 continuous front-end process vent contains chloroprene such that it is considered to be in chloroprene service, as defined in § 63.482, then the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (y)(1) through (4) of this section in addition to all other applicable requirements specified in § 63.483 and elsewhere in this section.
(1) Reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene by greater than or equal to 98 percent by weight, or to a concentration less than 1 ppmv for each process vent or to less than 5 pounds per year for all combined process vents within the process. If a combustion device is used, the chloroprene concentration of 1 ppmv must be corrected to 3 percent oxygen.
(2) To demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified in paragraph (y)(1) of this section for continuous front-end process vents in chloroprene service, owners and operators must meet the requirements specified in § 63.510.
(3) Owners and operators must keep the records specified in paragraphs (y)(3)(i) and (y)(3)(ii) of this section in addition to those records specified elsewhere in this section.
(i) For process vents, include all uncontrolled, undiluted chloroprene concentration measurements, and the calculations used to determine the total uncontrolled chloroprene mass emission rate for the sum of all vent gas streams.
(ii) The owner or operator must keep records of all periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in
§ 63.510(b)(4) through (6) when regulated material is being routed to the non-flare control device. The record must specify the operating parameter, the applicable limit, and the highest (for maximum operating limits) or lowest (for minimum operating limits) value recorded during the period.
(4) The Periodic Report must include the records for the periods specified in paragraph (y)(3)(ii) of this section. Indicate the start date, start time and duration in hours for each period.
(z) For continuous front-end process vents that are in chloroprene service and subject to the requirements of § 63.510, the requirements in 40 CFR 63.113(k)(4) do not apply. Instead, in addition to complying with the requirements in paragraphs 40 CFR 63.113(k)(1) through (3), for continuous front-end process vents that are in chloroprene service and subject to the requirements of § 63.510 that are designated as maintenance vents, owners and operators may not release more than 1.0 tons of chloroprene from all maintenance vents combined (
i.e.,
including maintenance vents subject to this paragraph (z), § 63.487(i)(4), or § 63.494(a)(7)(iii)) per any consecutive 12-month period. The owner or operator must keep monthly records of the quantity in tons of chloroprene released from each maintenance vent and include a description of the method used to estimate this quantity.
[65 FR 38049, June 19, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 36928, July 16, 2001; 76 FR 22588, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43243, May 16, 2024]

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 43243, May 16, 2024, § 63.485 was amended in part by revising paragraphs (l) and (o). However, the amendments could not be incorporated due to inaccurate amendatory instructions.
§ 63.486
Batch front-end process vent provisions.
(a)
Batch front-end process vents.
Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, owners and operators of new and existing affected sources with batch front-end process vents shall comply with the requirements in §§ 63.487 through 63.492. The batch front-end process vent group status shall be determined in accordance with § 63.488. Owners or operators of affected sources with batch front-end process vents classified as Group 1 shall comply with the reference control technology requirements for Group 1 batch front-end process vents in § 63.487, the monitoring requirements in § 63.489, the performance test methods and procedures to determine compliance in § 63.490, the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.491, and the reporting requirements in § 63.492. Owners and operators of all Group 2 batch front-end process vents shall comply with the applicable reference control technology requirements in § 63.487, the applicable recordkeeping requirements in § 63.491, and the applicable reporting requirements in § 63.492.
(b)
Aggregate batch vent streams.
Aggregate batch vent streams, as defined in § 63.482, are subject to the control requirements specified in § 63.487(b), as well as the monitoring, testing, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements specified in §§ 63.489 through 63.492 for aggregate batch vent streams.
[65 FR 38052, June 19, 2000]
§ 63.487
Batch front-end process vents—reference control technology.
(a)
Batch front-end process vents.
Except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source with a Group 1 batch front-end process vent, as determined using the procedures in § 63.488, shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, and paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Compliance may be based on either organic HAP or TOC.
(1) For each batch front-end process vent, reduce organic HAP emissions using a flare.
(i) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator of the affected sources shall comply with the requirements of § 63.504(c) for the flare.
(ii) Halogenated batch front-end process vents, as defined in § 63.482, shall not be vented to a flare.
(iii) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected
sources must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.
(2) For each batch front-end process vent, reduce organic HAP emissions for the batch cycle by 90 weight percent using a control device. Owners or operators may achieve compliance with this paragraph through the control of selected batch emission episodes or the control of portions of selected batch emission episodes. Documentation demonstrating how the 90 weight percent emission reduction is achieved is required by § 63.490(c)(2).
(3) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), for each batch front-end process vent that contains chlorine, HCl, or any other chlorinated compound, reduce emissions of dioxins and furans (toxic equivalency basis) to a concentration of 0.054 nanograms per standard cubic meter on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.
(b)
Aggregate batch vent streams.
Except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section the owner or operator of an aggregate batch vent stream that contains one or more Group 1 batch front-end process vents shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, and paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Compliance may be based on either organic HAP or TOC.
(1) For each aggregate batch vent stream, reduce organic HAP emissions using a flare.
(i) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the requirements of § 63.504(c) for the flare.
(ii) Halogenated aggregate batch vent streams, as defined in § 63.482, shall not be vented to a flare.
(iii) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.
(2) For each aggregate batch vent stream, reduce organic HAP emissions by 90 weight percent or to a concentration of 20 ppmv, on a continuous basis using a control device. For purposes of complying with the 20 ppmv outlet concentration standard, the outlet concentration shall be calculated on a dry basis. When a combustion device is used for purposes of complying with the 20 ppmv outlet concentration standard, the concentration shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen if supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions. If supplemental combustion air is not used, a correction to 3 percent oxygen is not required.
(3) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), for each aggregate batch vent stream that contains chlorine, HCl, or any other chlorinated compound, reduce emissions of dioxins and furans (toxic equivalency basis) to a concentration of 0.054 nanograms per standard cubic meter on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen
(c)
Halogenated emissions.
Halogenated Group 1 batch front-end process vents, halogenated aggregate batch vent streams, and halogenated continuous front-end process vents that are combusted as part of complying with paragraph (a)(2), (a)(3), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section, shall be controlled according to either paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.
(1) If a combustion device is used to comply with paragraph (a)(2), (a)(3), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section for a halogenated batch front-end process vent or halogenated aggregate batch vent stream, the emissions exiting the combustion device shall be ducted to a halogen reduction device that reduces overall emissions of hydrogen halides and halogens by at least 99 percent before discharge to the atmosphere.
(2) A halogen reduction device may be used to reduce the halogen atom mass emission rate to less than 3,750 kg/yr for batch front-end process vents or aggregate batch vent streams and thus make the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream nonhalogenated. The nonhalogenated batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream shall then comply with the requirements of either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, as appropriate.
(d) If a boiler or process heater is used to comply with the percent reduction requirement specified in paragraph (a)(2) or (b)(2) of this section, the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of such a device.
(e)
Combination of batch front-end process vents or aggregate batch vent streams with continuous front-end process vents.
If a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous front-end process vent, the owner or operator shall determine whether the combined vent stream is subject to the provisions of §§ 63.486 through 63.492 according to paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.
(1) A batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream combined with a continuous front-end process vent stream is not subject to the provisions of §§ 63.486 through 63.492, if the requirements in paragraph (e)(1)(i) and in either paragraph (e)(1)(ii) or (e)(1)(iii) are met.
(i) The only emissions to the atmosphere from the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream prior to being combined with the continuous front-end process vent are from equipment subject to § 63.502.
(ii) The batch front-end vent stream or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 1 continuous front-end process vent stream prior to the combined vent stream being routed to a control device. In this paragraph (e)(1)(ii), the definition of control device as it relates to continuous front-end process vents shall be used. Furthermore, the combined vent stream discussed in this paragraph (e)(1)(ii) shall be subject to § 63.485(o)(1).
(iii) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section, the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous front-end process vent stream prior to being routed to a recovery device. In this paragraph (e)(1)(iii), the definition of recovery device as it relates to continuous front-end process vents shall be used. Furthermore, the combined vent stream discussed in this paragraph (e)(1)(iii) shall be subject to § 63.485(o)(2).
(iv) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section no longer applies.
(2) If the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent, the group status of the batch front-end process vent shall be determined prior to its combination with the Group 2 continuous front-end process vent, in accordance with § 63.488, and the combined vent stream shall be subject to the requirements for aggregate batch vent streams in §§ 63.486 through 63.492.
(f)
Group 2 batch front-end process vents with annual emissions greater than or equal to the level specified in § 63.488(d).
Except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section, the owner or operator of a Group 2 batch front-end process vent with annual emissions greater than or equal to the level specified in § 63.488(d) shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (f)(1), (f)(2), or (h) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iv) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator shall establish a batch mass input limitation that ensures that the Group 2 batch front-end process vent does not become a Group 1 batch front-end process vent.
(ii) Over the course of the affected source's “year,” as reported in the Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.506(e)(5)(ix), the owner or operator shall not charge a mass of HAP or material to the batch unit operation that is greater than the level established as the batch mass input limitation.
(iii) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.491(d)(2), and the reporting requirements in § 63.492(a)(3), (b) and (c).
(iv) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with § 63.488(i) when process changes are made.
(2) Comply with the requirements of this subpart for Group 1 batch front-end process vents.
(g)
Group 2 batch front-end process vents with annual emissions less than the level specified in § 63.488(d).
Except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section, the owner or operator of a Group 2 batch front-end process vent with annual organic HAP emissions less than the level specified in § 63.488(d), shall comply with paragraph (g)(1), (g)(2), (g)(3), or (g)(4) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(iv) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator shall establish a batch mass input limitation that ensures emissions do not exceed the appropriate level specified in § 63.488(d).
(ii) Over the course of the affected source's “year,” as reported in the Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.506(e)(5)(ix), the owner or operator shall not charge a mass of HAP or material to the batch unit operation that is greater than the level established as the batch mass input limitation.
(iii) The owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.491(d)(1), and the reporting requirements in § 63.492(a)(2), (b), and (c).
(iv) The owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with § 63.488(i) when process changes are made.
(2) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section;
(3) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section; or
(4) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section.
(h) Owners or operators of Group 2 batch front-end process vents are not required to establish a batch mass input limitation if the batch front-end process vent is Group 2 at the conditions specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section and if the owner or operator complies with the recordkeeping provisions in §§ 63.491(a)(1) through (3), 63.491(a)(9), and 63.491(a)(4) through (6) as applicable, and the reporting requirements in § 63.492(a)(5) and (6) and (b).
(1) Emissions for the single highest-HAP recipe (considering all products that are produced in the batch unit operation) are used in the group determination; and
(2) The group determination assumes that the batch unit operation is operating at the maximum design capacity of the EPPU for 12 months.
(i) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), an owner or operator may designate a batch front-end process vent as a maintenance vent if the vent is only used as a result of startup, shutdown, maintenance, or inspection of equipment where equipment is emptied, depressurized, degassed, or placed into service. The owner or operator must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(4) of this section for each maintenance vent. Any vent designated as a maintenance vent is only subject to the maintenance vent provisions in this paragraph (i) and the associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.491(h) and § 63.492(g), respectively. The owner or operator does not need to designate a maintenance vent as a Group 1 or Group 2 batch front-end process vent nor identify maintenance vents in a Notification of Compliance Status report.
(1) Prior to venting to the atmosphere, remove process liquids from the equipment as much as practical and depressurize the equipment to either: A flare meeting the requirements of § 63.508, as applicable, or using any combination of a non-flare combustion, recovery, and/or recapture device meeting the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section until one of the following conditions, as applicable, is met.
(i) The concentration of the vapor in the equipment served by the maintenance vent is less than 10 percent of its lower explosive limit (LEL) and has an outlet concentration less than or equal to 20 ppmv hydrogen halide and halogen HAP.
(ii) If there is no ability to measure the concentration of the vapor in the equipment based on the design of the equipment, the pressure in the equipment served by the maintenance vent is reduced to 5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) or less. Upon opening the maintenance vent, active purging of
the equipment cannot be used until the concentration of the vapors in the maintenance vent (or inside the equipment if the maintenance is a hatch or similar type of opening) is less than 10 percent of its LEL.
(iii) The equipment served by the maintenance vent contains less than 50 pounds of total volatile organic compounds (VOC).
(iv) If, after applying best practices to isolate and purge equipment served by a maintenance vent, none of the applicable criterion in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (i)(1)(iii) of this section can be met prior to installing or removing a blind flange or similar equipment blind, then the pressure in the equipment served by the maintenance vent must be reduced to 2 psig or less before installing or removing the equipment blind. During installation or removal of the equipment blind, active purging of the equipment may be used provided the equipment pressure at the location where purge gas is introduced remains at 2 psig or less.
(2) Except for maintenance vents complying with the alternative in paragraph (i)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator must determine the concentration or, if applicable, equipment pressure using process instrumentation or portable measurement devices and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications.
(3) For maintenance vents complying with the alternative in paragraph (i)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator must determine mass of VOC in the equipment served by the maintenance vent based on the equipment size and contents after considering any contents drained or purged from the equipment. Equipment size may be determined from equipment design specifications. Equipment contents may be determined using process knowledge.
(4) In addition to complying with the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(3) of this section, for batch front-end process vents that are in chloroprene service and subject to the requirements of § 63.510 that are designated as maintenance vents, owners and operators may not release more than 1.0 tons of chloroprene from all maintenance vents combined (
i.e.,
including maintenance vents subject to this paragraph (i)(4), § 63.485(z), or § 63.494(a)(7)(iii)) per any consecutive 12-month period. The owner or operator must keep monthly records of the quantity in tons of chloroprene released from each maintenance vent and include a description of the method used to estimate this quantity.
(j) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(o), if the Group 1 or Group 2 batch front-end process vent contains chloroprene such that it is considered to be in chloroprene service, as defined in § 63.482, then the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (j)(1) through (j)(4) of this section in addition to all other applicable requirements specified in § 63.483 and elsewhere in this section.
(1) Reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene by greater than or equal to 98 percent by weight, or to a concentration less than 1 ppmv for each process vent or to less than 5 pounds per year for all combined process vents within the process. If a combustion device is used, the chloroprene concentration of 1 ppmv must be corrected to 3 percent oxygen.
(2) To demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section for batch front-end process vents in chloroprene service, owners and operators must meet the requirements specified in § 63.510.
(3) Owners and operators must keep the records specified in paragraphs (j)(3)(i) and (j)(3)(ii) of this section in addition to those records specified elsewhere in this section.
(i) For process vents, include all uncontrolled, undiluted chloroprene concentration measurements, and the calculations used to determine the total uncontrolled chloroprene mass emission rate for the sum of all vent gas streams.
(ii) The owner or operator must keep records of all periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.510(b)(4) through (6) when regulated material is being routed to the non-
flare control device. The record must specify the operating parameter, the applicable limit, and the highest (for maximum operating limits) or lowest (for minimum operating limits) value recorded during the period.
(4) The Periodic Report must include the records of periods specified in paragraph (j)(3)(ii) of this section. Indicate the start date, start time and duration in hours for each period.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 11542, Mar. 9, 1999; 65 FR 38052, June 19, 2000; 66 FR 36928, July 16, 2001; 89 FR 43245, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.488
Methods and procedures for batch front-end process vent group determination.
(a)
General requirements.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the owner or operator of batch front-end process vents at affected sources shall determine the group status of each batch front-end process vent in accordance with the provisions of this section. This determination may be based on either organic HAP or TOC emissions.
(1) The procedures specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) shall be followed to determine the group status of each batch front-end process vent. This determination shall be made in accordance with either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) An owner or operator may choose to determine the group status of a batch front-end process vent based on the expected mix of products. For each product, emission characteristics of the single highest-HAP recipe, as defined in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, for that product, shall be used in the procedures in paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section.
(ii) An owner or operator may choose to determine the group status of a batch front-end process vent based on annualized production of the single highest-HAP recipe, as defined in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, considering all products produced or processed in the batch unit operation. The annualized production of the highest-HAP recipe shall be based exclusively on the production of the single highest-HAP recipe of all products produced or processed in the batch unit operation for a 12 month period. The production level used may be the actual production rate. It is not necessary to assume a maximum production rate (i.e., 8,760 hours per year at maximum design production).
(iii) The single highest-HAP recipe for a product means the recipe of the product with the highest total mass of HAP charged to the reactor during the production of a single batch of product.
(2) The annual uncontrolled organic HAP or TOC emissions and annual average batch vent flow rate shall be determined at the exit from the batch unit operation. For the purposes of these determinations, the primary condenser operating as a reflux condenser on a reactor or distillation column, the primary condenser recovering monomer, reaction products, by-products, or solvent from a stripper operated in batch mode, and the primary condenser recovering monomer, reaction products, by-products, or solvent from a distillation operation operated in batch mode shall be considered part of the batch unit operation. All other devices that recover or oxidize organic HAP or TOC vapors shall be considered control devices as defined in § 63.482.
(3) The owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent complying with the flare provisions in § 63.487(a)(1) or § 63.487(b)(1) or routing the batch front-end process vent to a control device to comply with the requirements in § 63.487(a)(2) or § 63.487(b)(2) is not required to perform the batch front-end process vent group determination described in this section, but shall comply with all requirements applicable to Group 1 batch front-end process vents.
(b)
Determination of annual emissions.
The owner or operator shall calculate annual uncontrolled TOC or organic HAP emissions for each batch front-end process vent using the methods described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section. To estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode, owners or operators may use either the emissions estimation equations in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section, or direct measurement as specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. Engineering assessment may also be used to estimate emissions from a batch emission episode, but only under
the conditions described in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. In using the emissions estimation equations in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section, individual component vapor pressure and molecular weight may be obtained from standard references. Methods to determine individual HAP partial pressures in multicomponent systems are described in paragraph (b)(9) of this section. Other variables in the emissions estimation equations may be obtained through direct measurement, as defined in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, through engineering assessment, as defined in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, by process knowledge, or by any other appropriate means. Assumptions used in determining these variables must be documented. Once emissions for the batch emission episode have been determined using either the emissions estimation equations, direct measurement, or engineering assessment, emissions from a batch cycle shall be calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section, and annual emissions from the batch front-end process vent shall be calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(8) of this section.
(1) TOC or organic HAP emissions from the purging of an empty vessel shall be calculated using Equation 1. This equation does not take into account evaporation of any residual liquid in the vessel.
ER19JN00.000
Where:
E
episode
= Emissions, kg/episode.
V
ves
= Volume of vessel, m
3
.
P = TOC or total organic HAP partial pressure, kPa.
MW
WAVG
= Weighted average molecular weight of TOC or organic HAP in vapor, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i)(D) of this section, kg/kmol.
R = Ideal gas constant, 8.314 m
3
·kPa/kmol·°K.
T = Temperature of vessel vapor space, °K.
m = Number of volumes of purge gas used.
(2) TOC or organic HAP emissions from the purging of a filled vessel shall be calculated using Equation 2.
ER19JN00.001
Where:
E
episode
= Emissions, kg/episode.
y = Saturated mole fraction of all TOC or organic HAP in vapor phase.
V
dr
= Volumetric gas displacement rate, m
3
/min.
P = Pressure in vessel vapor space, kPa.
MW
WAVG
= Weighted average molecular weight of TOC or organic HAP in vapor, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i)(D) of this section, kg/kmol.
R = Ideal gas constant, 8.314 m
3
·kPa/kmol·°K.
T = Temperature of vessel vapor space, °K.
P
i
= Vapor pressure of TOC or individual organic HAP i, kPa.
x
i
= Mole fraction of TOC or organic HAP i in the liquid.
n = Number of organic HAP in stream. Note: Summation is not applicable if TOC emissions are being estimated.
T
m
= Minutes/episode.
(3) Emissions from vapor displacement due to transfer of material into or out of a vessel shall be calculated using Equation 3.
ER19JN00.002
Where:
E
episode
= Emissions, kg/episode.
y = Saturated mole fraction of all TOC or organic HAP in vapor phase.
V = Volume of gas displaced from the vessel, m
3
.
P = Pressure of vessel vapor space, kPa.
MW
WAVG
= Weighted average molecular weight of TOC or organic HAP in vapor, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i)(D) of this section, kg/kmol.
R = Ideal gas constant, 8.314 m
3
·kPa/kmol·°K.
T = Temperature of vessel vapor space, °K.
(4) Emissions caused by the heating of a vessel shall be calculated using the procedures in either paragraph (b)(4)(i), (b)(4)(ii), or (b)(4)(iii) of this section, as appropriate.
(i) If the final temperature to which the vessel contents is heated is lower than 50 K below the boiling point of the HAP in the vessel, then emissions shall be calculated using the equations in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) through (b)(4)(i)(D) of this section.
(A) Emissions caused by heating of a vessel shall be calculated using Equation 4. The assumptions made for this calculation are atmospheric pressure of 760 mm Hg and the displaced gas is always saturated with VOC vapor in equilibrium with the liquid mixture.
ER19jn00.003
Where:
E
episode
= Emissions, kg/episode.
(P
i
)
T1
, (P
i
)
T2
= Partial pressure (kPa) TOC or each organic HAP in the vessel headspace at initial (T1) and final (T2) temperature.
n = Number of organic HAP in stream. Note: Summation is not applicable if TOC emissions are being estimated.
Δη = Number of kilogram-moles (kg-moles) of gas displaced, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) of this section.
101.325 = Constant, kPa.
(MW
WAVG,T1
), (MW
WAVG,T2
) = Weighted average molecular weight of TOC or total organic HAP in the displaced gas stream, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i)(D) of this section.
(B) The moles of gas displaced, Δη, is calculated using equation 5.
ER19jn00.004
Where:
Δη = Number of kg-moles of gas displaced.
V
fs
= Volume of free space in the vessel, m
3
.
R = Ideal gas constant, 8.314 m
3
·kPa/kmol·K.
Pa
1
= Initial noncondensible gas partial pressure in the vessel, kPa.
Pa
2
= Final noncondensible gas partial pressure, kPa.
T
1
= Initial temperature of vessel, K.
T
2
= Final temperature of vessel, K.
(C) The initial and final pressure of the noncondensible gas in the vessel shall be calculated using equation 6.
ER19jn00.005
Where:
Pa = Initial or final partial pressure of noncondensible gas in the vessel headspace, kPa.
101.325 = Constant, kPa.
(P
i
)
T
= Partial pressure of TOC or each organic HAP i in the vessel headspace, kPa, at the initial or final temperature (T
1
or T
2
).
n = Number of organic HAP in stream. Note: Summation is not applicable if TOC emissions are being estimated.
(D) The weighted average molecular weight of TOC or organic HAP in the displaced gas, MW
WAVG
, shall be calculated using equation 7:
ER19jn00.006
Where:
c = TOC or organic HAP component
n = Number of TOC or organic HAP components in stream.
(ii) If the vessel contents are heated to a temperature greater than 50 K below the boiling point, then emissions from the heating of a vessel shall be calculated as the sum of the emissions calculated in accordance with paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) and (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
(A) For the interval from the initial temperature to the temperature 50 K below the boiling point, emissions shall be calculated using Equation 4, where T
2
is the temperature 50 K below the boiling point.
(B) For the interval from the temperature 50 K below the boiling point to the final temperature, emissions shall be calculated as the summation of emissions for each 5 K increment, where the emissions for each increment shall be calculated using Equation 4.
(
1
) If the final temperature of the heatup is at or lower than 5 K below the boiling point, the final temperature for the last increment shall be the final temperature for the heatup, even if the last increment is less than 5 K.
(
2
) If the final temperature of the heatup is higher than 5 K below the boiling point, the final temperature for the last increment shall be the temperature 5 K below the boiling point, even if the last increment is less than 5 K.
(
3
) If the vessel contents are heated to the boiling point and the vessel is not operating with a condenser, the final temperature for the final increment shall be the temperature 5 K below the boiling point, even if the last increment is less than 5 K.
(iii) If the vessel is operating with a condenser, and the vessel contents are heated to the boiling point, the primary condenser is considered part of the process, as described in § 63.488(a)(2). Emissions shall be calculated as the sum of Equation 4, which calculates emissions due to heating the vessel contents to the temperature of the gas exiting the condenser, and Equation 3, which calculates emissions due to the displacement of the remaining saturated noncondensible gas in the vessel. The final temperature in Equation 4 shall be set equal to the exit gas temperature of the condenser. Equation 3 shall be used as written below in Equation 3a, using free space volume, and T
2
is set equal to the condenser exit gas temperature.
ER19jn00.007
Where:
E
episode
= Emissions, kg/episode.
y
i
= Saturated mole fraction of all TOC or organic HAP in the vapor phase.
V
fs
= Volume of the free space in the vessel, m
3
.
P
T
= Pressure of the vessel vapor space, kPa.
MW
WAVG
= Weighted average molecular weight of TOC or organic HAP in vapor, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i)(D) of this section.
R = Ideal gas constant, 8.314 m
3
·kPa/kmol·K.
T = Temperature of condenser exit stream K.
(5) The owner or operator may estimate annual emissions for a batch emission episode by direct measurement. If direct measurement is used, the owner or operator shall either perform a test for the duration of a representative batch emission episode or perform a test during only those periods of the batch emission episode for which the emission rate for the entire episode can be determined or for which the emissions are greater than the average emission rate of the batch emission episode. The owner or operator choosing either of these options shall develop an emission profile for the entire batch emission episode, based on either process knowledge or test data collected, to demonstrate that test periods are representative. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances and process stoichiometry. Previous test results may be used provided the results are still relevant to the current batch front-end process vent conditions. Performance tests shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(iii) of this section. The procedures in either paragraph (b)(5)(iv) or (b)(5)(v) of this section shall be used to calculate the emissions per batch emission episode.
(i) Method 1 or 1A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites if the flow measuring device is a pitot tube. No traverse is necessary when Method 2A or 2D, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is used to determine gas stream volumetric flow rate.
(ii) Annual average batch vent flow rate shall be determined as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(iii) Method 18 or Method 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, respectively, must be used to determine the concentration of TOC or organic HAP, as appropriate. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. The use of Method 25A must conform with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(5)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 must be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.
(iv) If an integrated sample is taken over the entire batch emission episode to determine average batch vent concentration of TOC or total organic HAP, emissions shall be calculated using Equation 8.
ER19jn00.008
Where:
E
pisode
= Emissions, kg/episode
K = Constant, 2.494 × 10
−6
(ppmv)
−1
(gm-mole/scm) (kg/gm) (min/hr), where standard temperature is 20 °C.
C
j
= Average batch vent concentration of TOC or sample organic HAP component j of the gas stream for the batch emission episode, dry basis, ppmv.
M
j
= Molecular weight of TOC or sample organic HAP component j of the gas stream, dry basis, gm/gm-mole.
AFR = Average batch vent flow rate of gas stream, dry basis, scmm.
T
h
= Hours/episode
n = Number of organic HAP in stream. Note: Summation not applicable if TOC emissions are being estimated using a TOC concentration measured using Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.
(v) If grab samples are taken to determine the average batch vent concentration of TOC or total organic HAP, emissions shall be calculated according to paragraphs (b)(5)(v)(A) and (b)(5)(v)(B) of this section.
(A) For each measurement point, the emission rate shall be calculated using Equation 9.
ER19jn00.009
Where:
E
point
= Emission rate for individual measurement point, kg/hr.
K = Constant, 2.494 × 10
−6
(ppmv)
−1
(gm-mole/scm) (kg/gm) (min/hr), where standard temperature is 20 °C.
C
j
= Concentration of TOC or sample organic HAP component j of the gas stream, dry basis, ppmv.
M
j
= Molecular weight of TOC or sample organic HAP component j of the gas stream, gm/gm-mole.
FR = Flow rate of gas stream for the measurement point, dry basis, scmm.
n = Number of organic HAP in stream. Note: Summation not applicable if TOC emissions are being estimated using a TOC concentration measured using Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.
(B) The emissions per batch emission episode shall be calculated using Equation 10.
ER05SE96.010
where:
E
episode
= Emissions, kg/episode.
DUR = Duration of the batch emission episode, hr/episode.
E
i
= Emissions for measurement point i, kg/hr.
n = Number of measurements.
(6) Engineering assessment may be used to estimate emissions from a batch emission episode, if the criteria in paragraph (b)(6)(i) are met. Data or other information used to demonstrate that the criteria in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section have been met shall be reported as specified in paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section. Paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section defines engineering assessment, for the purposes of estimating emissions from a batch emissions episode. All data, assumptions, and procedures used in an engineering assessment shall be documented.
(i) If the criteria specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i)(A), (B), or (C) are met for a specific batch emission episode, the owner or operator may use engineering assessment, as described in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, to estimate emissions from that batch emission episode, and the owner or operator is not required to use the emissions estimation equations described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section to estimate emissions from that batch emission episode.
(A) Previous test data, where the measurement of organic HAP or TOC emissions was an outcome of the test, show a greater than 20 percent discrepancy between the test value and the value estimated using the applicable equations in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section. Paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section describe test data that will be acceptable under this paragraph (b)(6)(i)(A).
(
1
) Test data for the batch emission episode obtained during production of the product for which the demonstration is being made.
(
2
) Test data obtained for a batch emission episode from another process train, where the test data were obtained during production of the product for which the demonstration is being made. Test data from another process train may be used only if the owner or operator can demonstrate that the data are representative of the batch emission episode for which the demonstration is being made, taking into account the nature, size, operating conditions, production rate, and sequence of process steps (e.g., reaction, distillation, etc.) of the equipment in the other process train.
(B) Previous test data obtained during the production of the product for which the demonstration is being made, for the batch emission episode with the highest organic HAP emissions on a mass basis, show a greater than 20 percent discrepancy between
the test value and the value estimated using the applicable equations in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section. If the criteria in this paragraph (b)(6)(i)(B) are met, then engineering assessment may be used for all batch emission episodes associated with that batch cycle for that batch unit operation.
(C) The owner or operator has requested approval to use engineering assessment to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode. The request to use engineering assessment to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode shall contain sufficient information and data to demonstrate to the Administrator that engineering assessment is an accurate means of estimating emissions for that particular batch emissions episode. The request to use engineering assessment to estimate emissions for a batch emissions episode shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report required under § 63.506(e)(3).
(ii) Engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(A) Previous test results, provided the test was representative of current operating practices.
(B) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data obtained under conditions representative of current process operating conditions.
(C) Flow rate, TOC emission rate, or organic HAP emission rate specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the batch front-end process vent.
(D) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:
(
1
) Use of material balances;
(
2
) Estimation of flow rate based on physical equipment design, such as pump or blower capacities;
(
3
) Estimation of TOC or organic HAP concentrations based on saturation conditions; and
(
4
) Estimation of TOC or organic HAP concentrations based on grab samples of the liquid or vapor.
(iii) Data or other information used to demonstrate that the criteria in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section have been met shall be reported as specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(iii)(A) and (b)(6)(iii)(B) of this section.
(A) Data or other information used to demonstrate that the criteria in paragraph (b)(6)(i)(A) or (b)(6)(i)(B) of this section have been met shall be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status, as required in § 63.492(a)(6).
(B) The request for approval to use engineering assessment to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode as allowed under paragraph (b)(6)(i)(C) of this section, and sufficient data or other information for demonstrating to the Administrator that engineering assessment is an accurate means of estimating emissions for that particular batch emissions episode shall be submitted with the Precompliance Report, as required in § 63.506(e)(3).
(7) For each batch front-end process vent, the TOC or organic HAP emissions associated with a single batch cycle shall be calculated using Equation 11.
ER05SE96.011
where:
E
cycle
= Emissions for an individual batch cycle, kg/batch cycle.
E
episodei
= Emissions from a batch emission episode i, kg/episode.
n = Number of batch emission episodes for the batch cycle.
(8) Annual TOC or organic HAP emissions from a batch front-end process vent shall be calculated using Equation 12.
ER05SE96.012
where:
AE = Annual emissions from a batch front-end process vent, kg/yr.
N
i
= Number of type i batch cycles performed annually, cycles/year.
E
cyclei
= Emissions from the batch front-end process vent associated with single type i batch cycle, as determined in paragraph (b)(7) of this section, kg/batch cycle.
n = Number of different types of batch cycles that cause the emission of TOC or organic HAP from the batch front-end process vent.
(9) Individual HAP partial pressures in multicomponent systems shall be
determined using the appropriate method specified in paragraphs (b)(9)(i) through (b)(9)(iii) of this section.
(i) If the components are miscible, use Raoult's law to calculate the partial pressures;
(ii) If the solution is a dilute aqueous mixture, use Henry's law constants to calculate partial pressures;
(iii) If Raoult's law or Henry's law are not appropriate or available, the owner or operator may use any of the options in paragraphs (b)(9)(iii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.
(A) Experimentally obtained activity coefficients, Henry's law constants, or solubility data;
(B) Models, such as group-contribution models, to predict activity coefficients; or
(C) Assume the components of the system behave independently and use the summation of all vapor pressures from the HAP as the total HAP partial pressure.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Minimum emission level exemption.
(1) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a batch front-end process vent with annual emissions of TOC or organic HAP less than 11,800 kg/yr is considered a Group 2 batch front-end process vent and the owner or operator of that batch front-end process vent shall comply with the requirements in § 63.487(f) or (g). Annual emissions of TOC or organic HAP are determined at the exit of the batch unit operation, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and are determined as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The owner or operator of that batch front-end process vent is not required to comply with the provisions in paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section.
(2) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (d)(1) of this section no longer applies and instead the collection of all batch front-end process vents with combined total annual emissions of TOC or organic HAP less than 4,536 kg/yr (10,000 lb/yr) are considered Group 2 batch front-end process vents. Annual emissions of TOC or organic HAP are determined at the exit of each batch unit operation, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and are determined as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Determination of average batch vent flow rate and annual average batch vent flow rate.
Except as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine the average batch vent flow rate for each batch emission episode in accordance with one of the procedures provided in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(2) of this section. The annual average batch vent flow rate for a batch front-end process vent shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(1) Determination of the average batch vent flow rate for a batch emission episode by direct measurement shall be made using the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) of this section.
(i) The vent stream volumetric flow rate (FR
i
) for a batch emission episode, in scmm at 20 °C, shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.
(ii) The volumetric flow rate of a representative batch emission episode shall be measured every 15 minutes.
(iii) The average batch vent flow rate for a batch emission episode shall be calculated using Equation 13.
ER19JN00.010
Where:
AFR
episode
= Average batch vent flow rate for the batch emission episode, scmm.
FR
i
= Flow rate for individual measurement i, scmm.
n = Number of flow rate measurements taken during the batch emission episode.
(2) The average batch vent flow rate for a batch emission episode may be determined by engineering assessment, as defined in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section. All data, assumptions, and procedures used shall be documented.
(3) The annual average batch vent flow rate for a batch front-end process vent shall be calculated using Equation 14.
ER19JN00.011
Where:
AFR = Annual average batch vent flow rate for the batch front-end process vent, scmm.
DUR
i
= Duration of type i batch emission episodes annually, hr/yr.
AFR
episode,i
= Average batch vent flow rate for type i batch emission episode, scmm.
n = Number of types of batch emission episodes venting from the batch front-end process vent.
(4) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (e) of this section no longer applies.
(f)
Determination of cutoff flow rate.
(1) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, for each batch front-end process vent, the owner or operator shall calculate the cutoff flow rate using Equation 15.

# Equation 15 to Paragraph (f)
CFR=(0.00437)(AE)−51.6 [Eq. 15]
Where:
CFR = Cutoff flow rate, scmm.
AE = Annual TOC or organic HAP emissions, as determined in paragraph (b)(8) of this section, kg/yr.
(2) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (f) of this section no longer applies.
(g)
Group 1/Group 2 status determination.
Except as specified in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall compare the cutoff flow rate, calculated in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, with the annual average batch vent flow rate, determined in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The group determination status for each batch front-end process vent shall be made using the criteria specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section.
(1) If the cutoff flow rate is greater than or equal to the annual average batch vent flow rate of the stream, the batch front-end process vent is classified as a Group 1 batch front-end process vent.
(2) If the cutoff flow rate is less than the annual average batch vent flow rate of the stream, the batch front-end process vent is classified as a Group 2 batch front-end process vent.
(3) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (g) of this section no longer applies.
(h)
Determination of halogenation status.
To determine whether a batch front-end process vent or an aggregate batch vent stream is halogenated, the annual mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds shall be calculated using the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(3) of this section.
(1) The concentration of each organic compound containing halogen atoms (ppmv, by compound) for each batch emission episode shall be determined after the last recovery device (if any recovery devices are present), based on any one of the following procedures:
(i) Process knowledge that no halogens or hydrogen halides are present in the process may be used to demonstrate that a batch emission episode is nonhalogenated. Halogens or hydrogen halides that are unintentionally introduced into the process shall not be considered in making a finding that a batch emission episode is nonhalogenated.
(ii) Engineering assessment as discussed in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section.
(iii) Average concentration of organic compounds containing halogens and hydrogen halides as measured by Method 26 or 26A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.
(iv) Any other method or data that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301, 40 CFR part 63, appendix A.
(2) The annual mass emissions of halogen atoms for a batch front-end process vent shall be calculated using Equation 16.
ER19JN00.012
Where:
E
halogen
= Mass of halogen atoms, dry basis, kg/yr.
K = Constant, 0.022 (ppmv)
−1
(kg-mole per scm) (min/yr), where standard temperature is 20 °C.
AFR = Annual average batch vent flow rate of the batch front-end process vent, determined according to paragraph (e) of this section, scmm.
M
j,i
= Molecular weight of halogen atom i in compound j, kg/kg-mole.
L
j,i
= Number of atoms of halogen i in compound j.
n = Number of halogenated compounds j in the batch front-end process vent.
m = Number of different halogens i in each compound j of the batch front-end process vent.
C
avgj
= Annual average batch vent concentration of halogenated compound j in the batch front-end process vent, as determined by using Equation 17, dry basis, ppmv.
where:
ER19JN00.013
Where:
DUR
i
= Duration of type i batch emission episodes annually, hr/yr.
C
i
= Average batch vent concentration of halogenated compound j in type i batch emission episode, ppmv.
n = Number of types of batch emission episodes venting from the batch front-end process vent.
(3) The annual mass emissions of halogen atoms for an aggregate batch vent stream shall be the sum of the annual mass emissions of halogen atoms for all batch front-end process vents included in the aggregate batch vent stream.
(i)
Process changes affecting Group 2 batch front-end process vents.
Whenever process changes, as described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, are made that affect one or more Group 2 batch front-end process vents and that could reasonably be expected to change one or more Group 2 batch front-end process vents to Group 1 batch front-end process vents or that could reasonably be expected to reduce the batch mass input limitation for one or more Group 2 batch front-end process vents, the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section.
(1) Examples of process changes include the changes listed in paragraphs (i)(1)(i), (i)(1)(ii), and (i)(1)(iii) of this section.
(i) For all batch front-end process vents, examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, changes in feedstock type or catalyst type; or whenever there is replacement, removal, or modification of recovery equipment considered part of the batch unit operation as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; or increases in production capacity or production rate. For purposes of this paragraph, process changes do not include: Process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; and changes that are within the margin of variation on which the original group determination was based.
(ii) For Group 2 batch front-end process vents where the group determination and batch mass input limitation are based on the expected mix of products, the situations described in paragraphs (i)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section shall be considered to be process changes.
(A) The production of combinations of products not considered in establishing the batch mass input limitation.
(B) The production of a recipe of a product with a total mass of HAP charged to the reactor during the production of a single batch of product that is higher than the total mass of HAP for the recipe used as the single highest-HAP recipe for that product in the batch mass input limitation determination.
(iii) For Group 2 batch front-end process vents where the group determination and batch mass input limitation are based on the single highest-HAP recipe (considering all products produced or processed in the batch unit operation), the production of a recipe having a total mass of HAP charged to the reactor (during the production of a single batch of product) that is higher than the total mass of HAP for the highest-HAP recipe used in the batch mass input limitation determination shall be considered to be a process change.
(2) For each batch front-end process vent affected by a process change, the owner or operator shall redetermine the group status by repeating the procedures specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, as applicable. Alternatively, engineering assessment, as described in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, may be used to determine the effects of the process change.
(3) Based on the results of paragraph (i)(2) of this section, owners or operators of affected sources shall comply with either paragraph (i)(3)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(i) If the group redetermination described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section indicates that a Group 2 batch front-end process vent has become a Group 1 batch front-end process vent as a result of the process change, the owner or operator of the affected source shall submit a report as specified in § 63.492(b) and shall comply with the Group 1 provisions in §§ 63.487 through 63.492 in accordance with § 63.480(i)(2)(ii) or (i)(2)(iii), as applicable.
(ii) If the redetermination described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section indicates that a Group 2 batch front-end process vent with annual emissions less than the applicable level specified in paragraph (d) of this section, and that is in compliance with § 63.487(g), now has annual emissions greater than or equal to the applicable level specified by paragraph (d) of this section but remains a Group 2 batch front-end process vent, the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the provisions in paragraphs (i)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) Redetermine the batch mass input limitation;
(B) Submit a report as specified in § 63.492(c); and
(C) Comply with § 63.487(f), beginning with the year following the submittal of the report submitted according to paragraph (i)(3)(ii)(B) of this section.
(iii) If the group redetermination described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section indicates no change in group status or no change in the relation of annual emissions to the levels specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with paragraphs (i)(3)(iii)(A) and (i)(3)(iii)(B) of this section.
(A) The owner or operator shall redetermine the batch mass input limitation; and
(B) The owner or operator shall submit the new batch mass input limitation in accordance with § 63.492(c).
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 11542, Mar. 9, 1999; 65 FR 38054, June 19, 2000; 89 FR 43247, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.489
Batch front-end process vents—monitoring equipment.
(a)
General requirements.
Each owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream that uses a control device to comply with the requirements in § 63.487(a)(2) or (3) or § 63.487(b)(2) or (3) shall install the monitoring equipment specified in paragraph (b) of this section. All monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to the manufacturer's specifications or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.
(1) This monitoring equipment shall be in operation at all times when batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, that the owner or operator has selected to control are vented to the control device, or at all times when an aggregate batch vent stream is vented to the control device.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, the owner or operator shall operate control devices such that the daily average of monitored parameters, established as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, remains above the minimum level or below the maximum level, as appropriate.
(b)
Batch front-end process vent and aggregate batch vent stream monitoring equipment.
The monitoring equipment specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(11) of this section shall be installed as specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The parameters to be monitored are specified in Table 6 of this subpart.
(1) Where an incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.
(i) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, the temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(ii) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.
(2) Where a flare is used, except as specified in paragraph (b)(9) of this section, a device (including, but not limited to, a thermocouple, ultra-violet beam sensor, or infrared sensor) capable of continuously detecting the presence of a pilot flame is required.
(3) Where a boiler or process heater of less than 44 megawatts design heat input capacity is used, a temperature monitoring device in the firebox equipped with a continuous recorder is required. Any boiler or process heater in which all batch front-end process vents or aggregate batch vent streams are introduced with the primary fuel or are used as the primary fuel is exempt from this requirement.
(4) Where a scrubber is used with an incinerator, boiler, or process heater in concert with the combustion of halogenated batch front-end process vents or halogenated aggregate batch vent streams, the following monitoring equipment is required for the scrubber:
(i) A pH monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder to monitor the pH of the scrubber effluent; and
(ii) A flow measurement device equipped with a continuous recorder shall be located at the scrubber influent for liquid flow. Gas stream flow shall be determined using one of the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (b)(4)(ii)(C) of this section.
(A) The owner or operator may determine gas stream flow using the design blower capacity, with appropriate adjustments for pressure drop.
(B) If the scrubber is subject to regulations in 40 CFR parts 264 through 266 that have required a determination of the liquid to gas (L/G) ratio prior to the applicable compliance date for this subpart, the owner or operator may determine gas stream flow by the method that had been utilized to comply with those regulations. A determination that was conducted prior to the compliance date for this subpart may be utilized to comply with this subpart if it is still representative.
(C) The owner or operator may prepare and implement a gas stream flow determination plan that documents an appropriate method which will be used to determine the gas stream flow. The plan shall require determination of gas stream flow by a method which will at least provide a value for either a representative or the highest gas stream flow anticipated in the scrubber during representative operating conditions. The plan shall include a description of the methodology to be followed and an explanation of how the selected methodology will reliably determine the gas stream flow, and a description of the records that will be maintained to document the determination of gas stream flow. The owner or operator shall maintain the plan as specified in § 63.506(a).
(5) Where an absorber is used, a scrubbing liquid temperature monitoring device and a specific gravity
monitoring device are required, each equipped with a continuous recorder.
(6) Where a condenser is used, a condenser exit temperature (product side) monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.
(7) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(10) of this section, where a carbon adsorber is used, an integrating regeneration steam flow, nitrogen flow, or pressure monitoring device having an accuracy of ±10 percent of the flow rate, level, or pressure, or better, capable of recording the total regeneration steam flow or nitrogen flow, or pressure (gauge or absolute) for each regeneration cycle; and a carbon bed temperature monitoring device, capable of recording the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle are required.
(8) As an alternate to paragraphs (b)(5) through (b)(7) of this section, the owner or operator may install an organic monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder.
(9) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (b)(2) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.
(10) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), if the owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to an adsorber(s) that cannot be regenerated or a regenerative adsorber(s) that is regenerated offsite, then the owner or operator must install a system of two or more adsorber units in series and comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (b)(10)(iii) of this section.
(i) Conduct an initial performance test or design evaluation of the adsorber and establish the breakthrough limit and adsorber bed life.
(ii) Monitor the HAP or total organic compound (TOC) concentration through a sample port at the outlet of the first adsorber bed in series according to the schedule in paragraph (b)(10)(iii)(B) of this section. The owner or operator must measure the concentration of HAP or TOC using either a portable analyzer, in accordance with Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 using methane, propane, isobutylene, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 using methane, propane, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas.
(iii) Comply with paragraph (b)(10)(iii)(A) of this section, and comply with the monitoring frequency according to paragraph (b)(10)(iii)(B) of this section.
(A) The first adsorber in series must be replaced immediately when breakthrough, as defined in § 63.482, is detected between the first and second adsorber. The original second adsorber (or a fresh canister) will become the new first adsorber and a fresh adsorber will become the second adsorber. For purposes of this paragraph, “immediately” means within 8 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers of 55 gallons or less, and within 24 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers greater than 55 gallons. The owner or operator must monitor at the outlet of the first adsorber within 3 days of replacement to confirm it is performing properly.
(B) Based on the adsorber bed life established according to paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this section and the date the adsorbent was last replaced, conduct monitoring to detect breakthrough at least monthly if the adsorbent has more than 2 months of life remaining, at least weekly if the adsorbent has between 2 months and 2 weeks of life remaining, and at least daily if the adsorbent has 2 weeks or less of life remaining.
(11) Where sorbent injection is used, the following monitoring equipment is required for the sorbent injection system:
(i) A sorbent injection rate monitoring device (
e.g.,
weigh belt, weigh hopper, hopper flow measurement device) installed in a position that provides a representative measurement equipped with a continuous recorder to monitor the sorbent injection rate; and
(ii) A flow measurement device equipped with a continuous recorder to monitor the carrier gas flow rate.
(c)
Alternative monitoring parameters.
An owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream may request approval to monitor parameters other than those required by paragraph (b) of this section. The request shall be submitted according to the procedures specified in § 63.492(e) and § 63.506(f). Approval shall be requested if the owner or operator:
(1) Uses a control device other than those included in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(2) Uses one of the control devices included in paragraph (b) of this section, but seeks to monitor a parameter other than those specified in Table 6 of this subpart and paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Monitoring of bypass lines.
The owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream using a vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from a control device used to comply with § 63.487(a) or § 63.487(b) shall comply with either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section. Except as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, equipment such as low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and pressure relief valves needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph (d).
(1) Properly install, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes. Records shall be generated as specified in § 63.491(e)(3). The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert emissions away from the control device and to the atmosphere; or
(2) Secure the bypass line damper or valve in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the damper or valve is maintained in the non-diverting position and emissions are not diverted through the bypass line. Records shall be generated as specified in § 63.491(e)(4).
(3) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n):
(i) The use of a bypass line at any time on a closed vent system to divert emissions (subject to the emission standards in § 63.487) to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements specified in this subpart is an emissions standards violation.
(ii) The last sentence in paragraph (d) of this section no longer applies. Instead, the exemptions specified in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) and (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section apply.
(A) Except for pressure relief devices subject to § 63.165(e)(4) of subpart H of this part, equipment such as low leg drains and equipment subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part are not subject to this paragraph (d).
(B) Open-ended valves or lines that use a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve and follow the requirements specified in 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) or follow requirements codified in another regulation that are the same as 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) are not subject to this paragraph (d) of this section.
(e)
Establishment of parameter monitoring levels.
Parameter monitoring levels for batch front-end process vents and aggregate batch vent streams shall be established as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section.
(1) For each parameter monitored under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the owner or operator shall establish a level, defined as either a maximum or minimum operating parameter as denoted in Table 7 of this subpart, that indicates proper operation of the control device. The level shall be established in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.505. The level may be based upon a prior performance test conducted for determining compliance with a regulation promulgated by the EPA, and the owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test under § 63.490, provided that the prior performance test meets the conditions of § 63.490(b)(3).
(i) For batch front-end process vents using a control device to comply with § 63.487(a)(2), the established level shall
reflect the control efficiency established as part of the most recent compliance demonstration specified in § 63.490(c)(2).
(ii) For aggregate batch vent streams using a control device to comply with § 63.487(b)(2), the established level shall reflect the emission reduction requirement of either 90 percent or 20 ppmv specified in § 63.487(b)(2).
(iii) For batch front-end process vents using a control device to comply with § 63.487(a)(3) and aggregate batch vent streams using a control device to comply with § 63.487 (b)(3), the established level shall reflect the level of control established as part of the most recent compliance demonstration specified in § 63.490(g).
(2) The established level, along with supporting documentation, shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status or the operating permit application as required in § 63.506(e)(5) or § 63.506(e)(8), respectively.
(3) The operating day shall be defined as part of establishing the parameter monitoring level and shall be submitted with the information in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. The definition of operating day shall specify the time(s) at which an operating day begins and ends. The operating day shall not exceed 24 hours.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38059, June 19, 2000; 66 FR 36928, July 16, 2001; 76 FR 22589, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43247, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.490
Batch front-end process vents—performance test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
(a)
Use of a flare.
(1) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, when a flare is used to comply with § 63.487(a)(1) or (b)(1), the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with § 63.504(c).
(2) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (a)(1) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.
(b)
Exceptions to performance tests.
An owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test when a control device specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section is used to comply with § 63.487(a)(2).
(1) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts or greater.
(2) A boiler or process heater where the vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel or is used as the primary fuel.
(3) A control device for which a performance test was conducted for determining compliance with a regulation promulgated by the EPA and the test was conducted using the same Methods specified in this section and either no deliberate process changes have been made since the test, or the owner or operator can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.
(4) A boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste for which the owner or operator:
(i) Has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H; or
(ii) Has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.
(5) A hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O, or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.
(c)
Batch front-end process vent testing and procedures for compliance with § 63.487(a)(2).
Except as provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, an owner or operator using a control device to comply with § 63.487(a)(2) shall conduct a performance test using the procedures specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in order to determine the control efficiency of the control device. An owner or operator shall determine the percent reduction for the batch cycle using the control efficiency of the control device as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section and the procedures specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
Compliance may be based on either total organic HAP or TOC. For purposes of this paragraph (c), the term “batch emission episode” shall have the meaning “period of the batch emission episode selected for control,” which may be the entire batch emission episode or may only be a portion of the batch emission episode.
(1) Performance tests shall be conducted as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(v) of this section.
(i) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section, a test shall be performed for the entire period of each batch emission episode in the batch cycle that the owner or operator selects to control as part of achieving the required 90 percent emission reduction for the batch cycle specified in § 63.487(a)(2). Only one test is required for each batch emission episode selected by the owner or operator for control. The owner or operator shall follow the procedures listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(B) through (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section.
(A) Alternatively, an owner or operator may choose to test only those periods of the batch emission episode during which the emission rate for the entire episode can be determined or during which the emissions are greater than the average emission rate of the batch emission episode. The owner or operator choosing either of these options shall develop an emission profile for the entire batch emission episode, based on either process knowledge or test data collected, to demonstrate that test periods are representative. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances and process stoichiometry. Previous test results may be used, provided the results are still relevant to the current batch front-end process vent conditions.
(B) Method 1 or 1A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites if the flow measuring device is a pitot tube, except that references to particulate matter in Method 1A do not apply for the purposes of this subpart. No traverse is necessary when Method 2A or 2D, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is used to determine gas stream volumetric flow rate. Inlet sampling sites shall be located as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(B)(
1
) and (c)(1)(i)(B)(
2
) of this section. Outlet sampling sites shall be located at the outlet of the final control device prior to release to the atmosphere.
(
1
) The control device inlet sampling site shall be located at the exit from the batch unit operation before any control device. Section 63.488(a)(2) describes those recovery devices considered part of the unit operation. Inlet sampling sites would be after these specified recovery devices.
(
2
) If a batch process vent is introduced with the combustion air or as a secondary fuel into a boiler or process heater with a design capacity less than 44 megawatts, selection of the location of the inlet sampling sites shall ensure the measurement of total organic HAP or TOC (minus methane and ethane) concentrations in all batch front-end process vents and primary and secondary fuels introduced into the boiler or process heater.
(C) Gas stream volumetric flow rate and/or average batch vent flow rate shall be determined as specified in § 63.488(e).
(D) Method 18 or Method 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, respectively must be used to determine the concentration of organic HAP or TOC, as appropriate. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. Alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 of appendix A to this part may be used. The use of Method 25A must conform with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(D)(1) and (2) of this section.
(
1
) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 must be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.
(
2
) The use of Method 25A appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 is acceptable if
the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.
(ii) If an integrated sample is taken over the entire batch emission episode to determine the average batch vent concentration of TOC or total organic HAP, emissions per batch emission episode shall be calculated using Equations 18 and 19.
ER19JN00.014
ER19JN00.015
Where:
E
episode
= Inlet or outlet emissions, kg/episode.
K = Constant, 2.494 × 10
−6
(ppmv)
−1
(gm-mole/scm) (kg/gm) (min/hr), where standard temperature is 20 °C.
C
j
= Average inlet or outlet concentration of TOC or sample organic HAP component j of the gas stream for the batch emission episode, dry basis, ppmv.
M
j
= Molecular weight of TOC or sample organic HAP component j of the gas stream, gm/gm-mole.
AFR = Average inlet or outlet flow rate of gas stream for the batch emission episode, dry basis, scmm.
T
h
= Hours/episode.
n = Number of organic HAP in stream. Note: Summation is not applicable if TOC emissions are being estimated using a TOC concentration measured using Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.
(iii) If grab samples are taken to determine the average batch vent concentration of TOC or total organic HAP, emissions shall be calculated according to paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A) and (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section.
(A) For each measurement point, the emission rates shall be calculated using Equations 20 and 21.
ER19JN00.016
ER19JN00.017
Where:
E
point
= Inlet or outlet emission rate for the measurement point, kg/hr.
K = Constant, 2.494 × 10
−6
(ppmv)
−1
(gm-mole/scm) (kg/gm) (min/hr), where standard temperature is 20 °C.
C
j
= Inlet or outlet concentration of TOC or sample organic HAP component j of the gas stream, dry basis, ppmv.
M
j
= Molecular weight of TOC or sample organic HAP component j of the gas stream, gm/gm-mole.
FR = Inlet or outlet flow rate of gas stream for the measurement point, dry basis, scmm.
n = Number of organic HAP in stream. Note: Summation is not applicable if TOC emissions are being estimated using a TOC concentration measured using Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.
(B) The emissions per batch emission episode shall be calculated using Equations 22 and 23.
ER05SE96.021
ER05SE96.022
where:
E
episode
= Inlet or outlet emissions, kg/episode.
DUR = Duration of the batch emission episode, hr/episode.
E
point,i
= Inlet or outlet emissions for measurement point i, kg/hr.
n = Number of measurements.
(iv) The control efficiency for the control device shall be calculated using Equation 24.
ER05SE96.023
Where:
R = Control efficiency of control device, percent.
E
inlet
i
= Mass rate of TOC or total organic HAP for batch emission episode i at the inlet to the control device as calculated under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) or (c)(1)(iii) of this section, kg/hr.
E
outlet
i
= Mass rate of TOC or total organic HAP for batch emission episode i at the outlet of the control device, as calculated under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) or (c)(1)(iii) of this section, kg/hr.
n = Number of batch emission episodes in the batch cycle selected to be controlled.
(v) If the batch front-end process vent entering a boiler or process heater with a design capacity less than 44 megawatts is introduced with the combustion air or as a secondary fuel, the weight-percent reduction of total organic HAP or TOC across the device shall be determined by comparing the TOC or total organic HAP in all combusted batch front-end process vents and primary and secondary fuels with the TOC or total organic HAP, respectively, exiting the combustion device.
(2) The percent reduction for the batch cycle shall be determined using Equation 25 and the control device efficiencies specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section. All information used to calculate the batch cycle percent reduction, including a definition of the batch cycle identifying all batch emission episodes, shall be recorded as specified in § 63.491(b)(2). This information shall include identification of those batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, selected for control.
ER19JN00.018
Where:
E
unc
= Mass rate of TOC or total organic HAP for uncontrolled batch emission episode i, kg/hr.
E
inlet
con
= Mass rate of TOC or total organic HAP for controlled batch emission episode i at the inlet to the control device, kg/hr.
R = Control efficiency of control device as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section.
n = Number of uncontrolled batch emission episodes, controlled batch emission episodes, and control devices. The value of n is not necessarily the same for these three items.
(i) If a performance test is required by paragraph (c) of this section, the control efficiency of the control device shall be as determined in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section.
(ii) If a performance test is not required by paragraph (c) of this section for a combustion control device, as
specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the control efficiency of the control device shall be 98 percent. The control efficiency for a flare shall be 98 percent.
(iii) If a performance test is not required by paragraph (c) of this section for a noncombustion control device, the control efficiency shall be determined by the owner or operator based on engineering assessment.
(d)
Batch process vent and aggregate batch vent stream testing for compliance with § 63.487(c) [halogenated emission streams].
An owner or operator controlling halogenated emissions in compliance with § 63.487(c) shall conduct a performance test to determine compliance with the control efficiency specified in § 63.487(c)(1) or the emission limit specified in § 63.487(c)(2) for hydrogen halides and halogens.
(1) Sampling sites shall be located at the inlet and outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device used to reduce halogen emissions in complying with § 63.487(c)(1) or at the outlet of the halogen reduction device used to reduce halogen emissions in complying with § 63.487(c)(2).
(2) The mass emissions of each hydrogen halide and halogen compound for the batch cycle or aggregate batch vent stream shall be calculated from the measured concentrations and the gas stream flow rate(s) determined by the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(i) Method 26 or Method 26A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used to determine the concentration, in Mg per dry scm, of total hydrogen halides and halogens present in the emissions stream.
(ii) Gas stream volumetric flow rate and/or average batch vent flow rate shall be determined as specified in § 63.488(e).
(3) To determine compliance with the percent reduction specified in § 63.487(c)(1), the mass emissions for any hydrogen halides and halogens present at the inlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device shall be summed together. The mass emissions of any hydrogen halides or halogens present at the outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device shall be summed together. Percent reduction shall be determined by subtracting the outlet mass emissions from the inlet mass emissions and then dividing the result by the inlet mass emissions and multiplying by 100.
(4) To determine compliance with the emission limit specified in § 63.487(c)(2), the annual mass emissions for any hydrogen halides and halogens present at the outlet of the halogen reduction device and prior to any combustion device shall be summed together and compared to the emission limit specified in § 63.487(c)(2).
(5) The owner or operator may use any other method to demonstrate compliance if the method or data has been validated according to the applicable procedures of Method 301, 40 CFR part 63, appendix A.
(e)
Aggregate batch vent stream testing for compliance with § 63.487(b)(2).
Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section, owners or operators of aggregate batch vent streams complying with § 63.487(b)(2) shall conduct a performance test using the performance testing procedures for continuous front-end process vents in § 63.116(c).
(1) For the purposes of this subpart, when the provisions of § 63.116(c) specify that Method 18 of appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60 must be used, Method 18 or Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 may be used. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. The use of Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 must conform with the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 must be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.
(ii) The use of Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the
standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.
(2) When § 63.116(c)(4) refers to complying with an emission reduction of 98 percent, for the purposes of this subpart, the 90 percent reduction requirement specified in § 63.487(b)(2) shall apply.
(3) When a combustion device is used to comply with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard specified in § 63.487(b)(2), the correction to 3 percent oxygen specified in the performance testing procedures of § 63.116(c)(3) and (c)(3)(iii) is only required when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart.
(f)
Batch mass input limitation.
The batch mass input limitation required by § 63.487(g)(1) shall be determined by the owner or operator such that annual emissions for the batch front-end process vent remain less than the level specified in § 63.488(d). The batch mass input limitation required by § 63.487(f)(1) shall be determined by the owner or operator such that annual emissions remain at a level that ensures that the batch front-end process vent remains a Group 2 batch front-end process vent, given the actual annual flow rate for that batch front-end process vent determined according to § 63.488(e)(3). The batch mass input limitation shall be determined using the same basis, as described in § 63.488(a)(1), used to make the group determination (i.e., expected mix of products or highest-HAP recipe). The establishment of the batch mass input limitation is not dependent upon any past production or activity level.
(1) If the expected mix of products serves as the basis for the batch mass input limitation, the batch mass input limitation shall be determined based on any foreseeable combination of products that the owner or operator expects to manufacture.
(2) If the single highest-HAP recipe serves as the basis for the batch mass input limitation, the batch mass input limitation shall be determined based solely on the production of the single highest-HAP recipe, considering all products produced or processed in the batch unit operation.
(g)
Testing for compliance with § 63.487(a)(3) and (b)(3) [dioxins and furans].
Except as specified in paragraph (g)(7) of this section, an owner or operator complying with § 63.487(a)(3) and/or (b)(3) must conduct a performance test using the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) of this section. Conduct subsequent performance tests no later than 60 calendar months after the previous performance test.
(1) The performance test must consist of three test runs. Collect at least 3 dry standard cubic meters of gas per test run.
(2) Use Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60 to select the sampling sites at the sampling location. The sampling location must be at the outlet of the final control device.
(3) Determine the gas volumetric flowrate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60.
(4) Use Method 4 of appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60 to convert the volumetric flowrate to a dry basis.
(5) Measure the concentration of each tetra- through octa-chlorinated dioxin and furan congener emitted using Method 23 of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60.
(i) For each dioxin and furan congener, multiply the congener concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in table 10 to this subpart. For determination of toxic equivalency, zero may be used for congeners with a concentration less than the estimated detection limit (EDL). For congeners with estimated maximum pollutant concentration (EMPC) results, if the value is less than the EDL, zero may be used. Otherwise, the EMPC value must be used in the calculation of toxic equivalency.
(ii) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins and furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.
(6) The concentration of dioxins and furans shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen. Use Method 3A of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60 or the manual method in ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) to determine the oxygen concentration
(%O2d). The oxygen concentration must be determined concurrently with Method 23 of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60. The concentration corrected to 3 percent oxygen (Cc) shall be computed using the following equation:
ER16MY24.064
Where:
C
c
= Concentration of dioxins and furans corrected to 3 percent oxygen, dry basis, nanograms per standard cubic meter.
C
m
= Concentration of dioxins and furans, dry basis, nanograms per standard cubic meter.
%O
2
d = Concentration of oxygen, dry basis, percent by volume.
(7) An owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test when either a boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste, or hazardous waste incinerator, is used for which the owner or operator:
(i) Has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H;
(ii) Has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H;
(iii) Meets the requirement specified in paragraph (g)(7)(v) of this section, and has submitted a Notification of Compliance under § 63.1207(j) and complies with the requirements of subpart EEE of this part; or
(iv) Meets the requirement specified in paragraph (g)(7)(v) of this section, complies with subpart EEE of this part, and will submit a Notification of Compliance under § 63.1207(j) by the date the owner or operator would have been required to submit the initial performance test report for this subpart.
(v) The owner and operator may not waive performance testing pursuant to § 63.1207(d)(4) and each performance test required by § 63.1207(d) must show compliance with the dioxins and furans emission limit specified in § 63.487(a)(3) and (b)(3), as applicable.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 11542, Mar. 9, 1999; 65 FR 38060, June 19, 2000; 89 FR 43248, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.491
Batch front-end process vents—recordkeeping requirements.
(a)
Group determination records for batch front-end process vents.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(7) and (a)(8) of this section, each owner or operator of an affected source shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section for each batch front-end process vent subject to the group determination procedures of § 63.488. Except for paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the records required to be maintained by this paragraph are limited to the information developed and used to make the group determination under §§ 63.488(b) through 63.488(g), as appropriate. If an owner or operator did not need to develop certain information (e.g., annual average batch vent flow rate) to determine the group status, this paragraph does not require that additional information be developed. Paragraph (a)(9) of this section specifies the recordkeeping requirements for Group 2 batch front-end process vents that are exempt from the batch mass input limitation provisions, as allowed under § 63.487(h).
(1) An identification of each unique product that has emissions from one or more batch emission episodes venting from the batch front-end process vent, along with an identification of the single highest-HAP recipe for each product and the mass of HAP fed to the reactor for that recipe.
(2) A description of, and an emission estimate for, each batch emission episode, and the total emissions associated with one batch cycle, as described in either paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section, as appropriate.
(i) If the group determination is based on the expected mix of products,
records shall include the emission estimates for the single highest-HAP recipe of each unique product identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section that was considered in making the group determination under § 63.488.
(ii) If the group determination is based on the single highest-HAP recipe (considering all products produced or processed in the batch unit operation), records shall include the emission estimates for the single highest-HAP recipe.
(3) Total annual uncontrolled TOC or organic HAP emissions, determined at the exit from the batch unit operation before any emission control, as determined in accordance with § 63.488(b).
(i) For Group 2 batch front-end process vents, emissions shall be determined at the batch mass input limitation.
(ii) For Group 1 batch front-end process vents, emissions shall be those used to determine the group status of the batch front-end process vent.
(4) The annual average batch vent flow rate for the batch front-end process vent as determined in accordance with § 63.488(e).
(5) The cutoff flow rate, determined in accordance with § 63.488(f).
(6) The results of the batch front-end process vent group determination, conducted in accordance with § 63.488(g).
(7) If a batch front-end process vent is subject to § 63.487(a) or § 63.487(b), none of the records in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section are required.
(8) If the total annual emissions from the batch front-end process vent during the group determination are less than the appropriate level specified in § 63.488(d), only the records in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section are required.
(9) For each Group 2 batch front-end process vent that is exempt from the batch mass input limitation provisions because it meets the criteria of § 63.487(h), the records specified in paragraphs (a)(9)(i) and (ii) shall be maintained.
(i) Documentation of the maximum design capacity of the EPPU; and
(ii) The mass of HAP or material that can be charged annually to the batch unit operation at the maximum design capacity.
(b)
Compliance demonstration records.
Each owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream complying with § 63.487(a) or (b), shall keep the following records, as applicable, readily accessible:
(1) The annual mass emissions of halogen atoms in the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.488(h).
(2) If the owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent has chosen to comply with § 63.487(a)(2), records documenting the batch cycle percent reduction as specified in § 63.490(c)(2).
(3) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, when using a flare to comply with § 63.487(a)(1):
(i) The flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted);
(ii) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by § 63.504(c); and
(iii) Periods when all pilot flames were absent.
(iv) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (b)(3)(iii) of this section no longer apply and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must keep the records specified in § 63.108(m) of subpart F of this part and § 63.508, readily accessible when using a flare to comply with § 63.487(a)(1).
(4) The following information when using a control device to meet the percent reduction requirement specified in § 63.487 (a)(2) or (b)(2):
(i) For an incinerator or non-combustion control device, the percent reduction of organic HAP or TOC achieved, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.490(c) for batch front-end process vents and § 63.490(e) for aggregate batch vent streams;
(ii) For a boiler or process heater, a description of the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the boiler or process heater;
(iii) For a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of less than 44 megawatts and where the process vent stream is introduced with combustion air or is used as a secondary fuel and is not mixed with the primary fuel, the percent reduction of organic HAP or TOC achieved, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.490(c) for batch front-end process vents and § 63.490(e) for aggregate batch vent streams; and
(iv) For a scrubber or other halogen reduction device following a combustion device to control halogenated batch front-end process vents or halogenated aggregate batch vent streams, the percent reduction of total hydrogen halides and halogens, as determined under § 63.490(d)(3) or the emission limit determined under § 63.490(d)(4).
(5) When complying with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard specified in § 63.487(b)(2), records of the outlet concentration of organic HAP or TOC on a dry basis. If supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, the outlet concentration shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen. If supplemental combustion air is not used, a correction to 3 percent oxygen is not required.
(6) Records of the dioxins and furans concentration, as determined in § 63.490(g).
(c)
Establishment of parameter monitoring level records.
For each parameter monitored according to § 63.489(b) and Table 6 of this subpart, or for alternate parameters and/or parameters for alternate control devices monitored according to § 63.492(e) as allowed under § 63.489(c), maintain documentation showing the establishment of the level that indicates proper operation of the control device as required by § 63.489(e) for parameters specified in § 63.489(b) and as required by § 63.506(f) for alternate parameters. This documentation shall include the parameter monitoring data used to establish the level.
(d)
Group 2 batch front-end process vent continuous compliance records.
The owner or operator of a Group 2 batch front-end process vent shall comply with either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section, as appropriate.
(1) The owner or operator of a Group 2 batch front-end process vent required to comply with § 63.487(g) shall keep the following records readily accessible:
(i) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, records designating the established batch mass input limitation required by § 63.487(g)(1) and specified in § 63.490(f).
(ii) Records specifying the mass of HAP or material charged to the batch unit operation.
(iii) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section no longer applies.
(2) The owner or operator of a Group 2 batch front-end process vent complying with § 63.487(f) shall keep the following records readily accessible:
(i) Records designating the established batch mass input limitation required by § 63.487(f)(1) and specified in § 63.490(f).
(ii) Records specifying the mass of HAP or material charged to the batch unit operation.
(e)
Controlled batch front-end process vent continuous compliance records.
Each owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent that has chosen to use a control device to comply with § 63.487(a) shall keep the following records readily accessible:
(1) Continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.489(b) as applicable, and listed in Table 6 of this subpart, or specified by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.492(e) as allowed under § 63.489(c). These records shall be kept as specified under § 63.506(d), except as specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) For flares, the records specified in Table 6 of this subpart shall be maintained in place of continuous records.
(ii) For carbon adsorbers, the records specified in Table 6 of this subpart shall be maintained in place of batch cycle daily averages.
(2) Records of the batch cycle daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter, except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii) of this section, as calculated using the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) The batch cycle daily average shall be calculated as the average of all parameter values measured for an operating day during those batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle that the owner or operator has selected to control.
(ii) Monitoring data recorded during periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments shall not be included in computing the batch cycle daily averages. In addition, monitoring data recorded during periods of non-operation of the EPPU (or specific portion thereof) resulting in cessation of organic HAP emissions shall not be included in computing the batch cycle daily averages.
(iii) If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day are above the minimum or below the maximum level established in accordance with § 63.489(e), the owner or operator may record that all values were above the minimum or below the maximum level established, rather than calculating and recording a batch cycle daily average for that operating day.
(3) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(6) of this section, hourly records of whether the flow indicator for bypass lines specified under § 63.489(d)(1) was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour. Also, records of the times of all periods when the vent is diverted from the control device, or the flow indicator specified in § 63.489(d)(1) is not operating.
(4) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(6) of this section, where a seal or closure mechanism is used to comply with § 63.489(d)(2), hourly records of whether a diversion was detected at any time are not required.
(i) For compliance with § 63.489(d)(2), the owner or operator shall record whether the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanism has been done, and shall record the occurrence of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line damper or valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type configuration has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has been broken.
(ii) [Reserved]
(5) Records specifying the times and duration of periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high level adjustments. In addition, records specifying any other periods of process or control device operation when monitors are not operating.
(6) For each flow event from a bypass line subject to the requirements in § 63.489(d) for each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), the owner or operator must also maintain records sufficient to determine whether or not the detected flow included flow requiring control. For each flow event from a bypass line requiring control that is released either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements in this subpart, the owner or operator must include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting emissions of organic HAP that bypassed the control device using process knowledge and engineering estimates.
(f)
Aggregate batch vent stream continuous compliance records.
In addition to the records specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, each owner or operator of an aggregate batch vent stream using a control device to comply with § 63.487(b)(1) or (b)(2) shall keep the following records readily accessible:
(1) Continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.489(b) and listed in Table 6 of this subpart, as applicable, or specified by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.492(e), as allowed under § 63.489(c), with the exceptions listed in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) For flares, the records specified in Table 6 of this subpart shall be maintained in place of continuous records.
(ii) For carbon adsorbers, the records specified in Table 6 of this subpart shall be maintained in place of daily averages.
(2) Records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.506(d).
(3) For demonstrating compliance with the monitoring of bypass lines as specified in § 63.489(d), records as specified in paragraph (e)(3) or (4) of this section, and (e)(6) of this section as appropriate.
(g) Documentation supporting the establishment of the batch mass input limitation shall include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(5) of this section, as appropriate.
(1) Identification of whether the purpose of the batch mass input limitation is to comply with § 63.487(f)(1) or (g)(1).
(2) Identification of whether the batch mass input limitation is based on the single highest-HAP recipe (considering all products) or on the expected mix of products for the batch front-end process vent as allowed under § 63.488(a)(1).
(3) Definition of the operating year, for the purposes of determining compliance with the batch mass input limitation.
(4) If the batch mass input limitation is based on the expected mix of products, the owner or operator shall provide documentation that describes as many scenarios for differing mixes of products (i.e., how many of each type of product) as the owner or operator desires the flexibility to accomplish. Alternatively, the owner or operator shall provide a description of the relationship among the mix of products that will allow a determination of compliance with the batch mass input limitation under any number of scenarios.
(5) The mass of HAP or material allowed to be charged to the batch unit operation per year under the batch mass input limitation.
(h)
Maintenance vent compliance records for batch front-end process vents.
For each maintenance vent opening subject to the requirements of § 63.487(i), owners and operators must keep the applicable records specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Owners and operators must maintain standard site procedures used to deinventory equipment for safety purposes (
e.g.,
hot work or vessel entry procedures) to document the procedures used to meet the requirements in § 63.487(i). The current copy of the procedures must be retained and available on-site at all times. Previous versions of the standard site procedures, as applicable, must be retained for five years.
(2) If complying with the requirements of § 63.487(i)(1)(i), and the concentration of the vapor at the time of the vessel opening exceeds 10 percent of its LEL, identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, and the concentration of the vapor at the time of the vessel opening.
(3) If complying with the requirements of § 63.487(i)(1)(ii), and either the vessel pressure at the time of the vessel opening exceeds 5 psig or the concentration of the vapor at the time of the active purging was initiated exceeds 10 percent of its LEL, identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, the pressure of the vessel or equipment at the time of discharge to the atmosphere and, if applicable, the concentration of the vapors in the equipment when active purging was initiated.
(4) If complying with the requirements of § 63.487(i)(1)(iii), records of the estimating procedures used to determine the total quantity of VOC in the equipment and the type and size limits of equipment that contain less than 50 pounds of VOC at the time of maintenance vent opening. For each maintenance vent opening that contains greater than 50 pounds of VOC for which the deinventory procedures specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section are not followed or for which the equipment opened exceeds the type and size limits established in the records specified in this paragraph (h)(4), records that identify the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, and records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment at the time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.
(5) If complying with the requirements of § 63.487(i)(1)(iv), identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the
maintenance vent, records documenting actions taken to comply with other applicable alternatives and why utilization of this alternative was required, the date of maintenance vent opening, the equipment pressure and concentration of the vapors in the equipment at the time of discharge, an indication of whether active purging was performed and the pressure of the equipment during the installation or removal of the blind if active purging was used, the duration the maintenance vent was open during the blind installation or removal process, and records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment at the time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere for each applicable maintenance vent opening.
[62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 11542, Mar. 9, 1999; 65 FR 38063, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22589, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43249, May 16, 2024]
§ 63.492
Batch front-end process vents—reporting requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream at an affected source shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section, as appropriate, as part of the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.506(e)(5).
(1) For each batch front-end process vent complying with § 63.487(a) and each aggregate batch vent stream complying with § 63.487(b), the information specified in § 63.491(b) and § 63.491(c), as applicable.
(2) For each Group 2 batch front-end process vent with annual emissions less than the level specified in § 63.488(d), the information specified in § 63.491(d)(1)(i).
(3) For each Group 2 batch front-end process vent with annual emissions greater than or equal to the level specified in § 63.488(d), the information specified in § 63.491(d)(2)(i).
(4) For each batch process vent subject to the group determination procedures, the information specified in § 63.491(a), as appropriate.
(5) For each Group 2 batch front-end process vent that is exempt from the batch mass input limitation provisions because it meets the criteria of § 63.487(h), the information specified in § 63.491(a)(1) through (3), and the information specified in § 63.491(a)(4) through (6) as applicable, calculated at the conditions specified in § 63.487(h).
(6) When engineering assessment has been used to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode and the criteria specified in § 63.488(b)(6)(i)(A) or (B) have been met, the owner or operator shall submit the information demonstrating that the criteria specified in § 63.488(b)(6)(i)(A) or (B) have been met as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5).
(b) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.488(i)(1), is made that causes a Group 2 batch front-end process vent to become a Group 1 batch front-end process vent, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator and submit a description of the process change within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the Group 1 batch front-end process vent provisions in §§ 63.486 through 63.492 in accordance with § 63.480(i)(2)(ii).
(c) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.488(i)(1), is made that causes a Group 2 batch front-end process vent with annual emissions less than the level specified in § 63.488(d) for which the owner or operator is required to comply with § 63.487(g) to have annual emissions greater than or equal to the level specified in § 63.488(d) but remains a Group 2 batch front-end process vent, or if a process change is made that requires the owner or operator to redetermine the batch mass input limitation as specified in § 63.488(i)(3), the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. The following information shall be submitted:
(1) A description of the process change;
(2) The batch mass input limitation determined in accordance with § 63.487(f)(1).
(d) The owner or operator is not required to submit a report of a process
change if one of the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section is met.
(1) The change does not meet the description of a process change in § 63.488(i).
(2) The redetermined group status remains Group 2 for an individual batch front-end process vent with annual emissions greater than or equal to the level specified in § 63.488(d) and the batch mass input limitation does not decrease, or a Group 2 batch front-end process vent with annual emissions less than the level specified in § 63.488(d) complying with § 63.487(g) continues to have emissions less than the level specified in § 63.488(d) and the batch mass input limitation does not decrease.
