(a) A recipient of monthly benefits and a person for whom a period of disability has been established are obligated to report to the Social Security Administration the occurrence of certain events which may suspend or terminate benefits or which may cause a cessation of a period of disability. (See §§ 404.415
et seq.
and 404.1571 of this chapter.)
(b) A person who files an application for benefits receives oral and written instructions about events which may cause a suspension or termination, and also appropriate forms and instruction cards for reporting such events. Pursuant to section 203(h)(1)(A) of the Act, under certain conditions a beneficiary must, within 3 months and 15 days after the close of a taxable year, submit to the Social Security Administration and annual report of his earnings and of any substantial services in self-employment performed during such taxable year. The purpose of the annual report is to furnish the Social Security Administration with information for making final adjustments in the payment of benefits for that year. An individual may also be requested to submit other reports to the Social Security Administration from time to time.
[32 FR 13653, Sept. 29, 1967, as amended at 65 FR 16816, Mar. 30, 2000]
§ 422.140
Reconsideration of initial determination.
If you are dissatisfied with an initial determination with respect to entitlement to monthly benefits, a lump-sum death payment, a period of disability, a revision of an earnings record, with respect to any other right under title II of the Social Security Act, or with respect to entitlement to hospital insurance benefits or supplementary medical insurance benefits, you may request that we reconsider the initial determination. The information in § 404.1503 of this chapter as to the respective roles of State agencies and the Social Security Administration in making disability determinations is also generally applicable to the reconsideration of initial determinations involving disability. However, in cases in which a disability hearing as described in §§ 404.914 through 404.918 and §§ 416.1414 through 416.1418 of this chapter is available, the reconsidered determination may be issued by a disability hearing officer or the Associate Commissioner for Disability Programs or his or her delegate. After the initial determination has been reconsidered, we will mail you written notice and inform you of your right to a hearing before an administrative law judge (
see
§ 422.201).
[76 FR 24812, May 3, 2011]
§ 422.150
Guidelines for establishing and maintaining an information exchange with payroll data providers.
(a)
Guidelines for establishing an information exchange with payroll data providers.
In establishing an information exchange under section 1184 of the Social Security Act, we will do the following:
(1) Identify the payroll data providers (as defined in §§ 404.702 and 416.702 of this chapter) that may be interested in participating in an information exchange with us.
(2) Review the payroll data providers and consider factors such as: whether a payroll data provider is able and willing to engage in an information exchange; what data the payroll data provider could provide; whether the data from the payroll data provider is sufficiently accurate, complete, and up to date; and any conditions and limitations associated with our receipt of the data.
(3) Consistent with applicable law and regulations, establish an information exchange with the selected payroll data provider. The arrangement between us and the selected payroll data provider will describe:
(i) The records that will be matched;
(ii) The procedures for the match;
(iii) Any requirements established related to accuracy, completeness, and up-to-date records;
(iv) The procedures for ensuring the administrative, technical, and physical security of the records matched; and
(v) Such other provisions as are necessary.
(4) Prior to receiving payroll data provider information, publish a notice in the
Federal Register
that describes the information exchange and the extent to which the information received through such exchange is:
(i) Relevant and necessary to:
(A) Accurately determine initial and ongoing entitlement to, and the amount of, disability benefits under title II of the Social Security Act;
(B) Accurately determine eligibility for, and the amount of, benefits under the Supplemental Security Income program under title XVI of the Social Security Act; and
(C) Prevent improper payments of such benefits; and
(ii) Sufficiently accurate, up to date, and complete.
(b)
Guidelines for maintaining an information exchange with payroll data providers.
We will perform the following activities while we maintain an established information exchange with a payroll data provider described in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Periodically assess whether the data we receive under the information exchange continues to be accurate, complete, and up to date; and
(2) Monitor compliance with the requirements of the information exchange described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
[89 FR 107261, Dec. 31, 2024]

# Subpart C—Hearings, Appeals Council Review, and Judicial Review Procedures

# Authority:
Secs. 205, 221, and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405, 421, and 902(a)(5)); 30 U.S.C. 923(b).
§ 422.201
Material included in this subpart.
This subpart describes in general the procedures relating to hearings, review by the Appeals Council of the hearing decision or dismissal, and court review in cases decided under the procedures in parts 404, 408, 410, and 416 of this chapter. It also describes the procedures for requesting a hearing or Appeals Council review, and for instituting a civil action for court review of cases decided under these parts. For detailed provisions relating to hearings, review by the Appeals Council, and court review, see the following references as appropriate to the matter involved:
(a) Title II of the Act, §§ 404.929 through 404.983 of this chapter;
(b) Title VIII of the Act, §§ 408.1040 through 408.1060 of this chapter;
(c) Title XVI of the Act, §§ 416.1429 through 416.1483 of this chapter;
(d) Part B of title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 as amended, §§ 410.630 through 410.670.
[41 FR 53791, Dec. 9, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 34942, June 18, 1979; 54 FR 4268, Jan. 30, 1989; 71 FR 16462, Mar. 31, 2006; 76 FR 24812, May 3, 2011; 85 FR 73161, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 422.203
Hearings.
(a)
Right to request a hearing.
(1) After a reconsidered or a revised determination (i) of a claim for benefits or any other right under title II of the Social Security Act; or (ii) of eligibility or amount of benefits or any other matter under title XVI of the Act, except where an initial or reconsidered determination involving an adverse action is revised, after such revised determination has been reconsidered; or (iii) as to entitlement under part A or part B of title XVIII of the Act, or as to the amount of benefits under part A of such title XVIII (where the amount in controversy is $100 or more); or of health services to be provided by a health maintenance organization without additional costs (where the amount in controversy is $100 or more); or as to the amount of benefits under part B of title XVIII (where the amount in controversy is $500 or more); or as to a determination by a peer review organization (PRO) under title XI (where the amount in controversy is $200 or more);
or as to certain determinations made under section 1154, 1842(1), 1866(f)(2), or 1879 of the Act; any party to such a determination may, pursuant to the applicable section of the Act, file a written request for a hearing on the determination. After a reconsidered determination of a claim for benefits under part B of title IV (Black Lung benefits) of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 921 through 925), a party to the determination may file a written request for hearing on the determination.
(2) After (i) a reconsidered or revised determination that an institution, facility, agency, or clinic does not qualify as a provider of services, or (ii) a determination terminating an agreement with a provider of services, such institution, facility, agency, or clinic may, pursuant to section 1866 of the Act, file a written request for a hearing on the determination.
(3) After (i) a reconsidered or revised determination that an independent laboratory, supplier of portable X-ray services, or end-stage renal disease treatment facility or other person does not meet the conditions for coverage of its services or (ii) a determination that it no longer meets such conditions has been made, such laboratory, supplier, treatment facility may, under 42 CFR 498.40 of this chapter, file a written request for a hearing on the determination. (For hearing rights of independent laboratories, suppliers of portable X-ray services, and end-stage renal disease treatment facilities and other person see 42 CFR 498.5.)
(b)
Request for a hearing.
(1) A request for a hearing under paragraph (a) of this section may be made using the form(s) we designate for this purpose, or by any other writing requesting a hearing. The request shall be filed either electronically in the manner we prescribe or at an office of the Social Security Administration, usually a district office or a branch office, or at the Veterans' Administration Regional Office in the Philippines (except in title XVI cases), or at a hearing office of the Office of Hearings Operations, or with the Appeals Council. A qualified railroad retirement beneficiary may choose to file a request for a hearing under part A of title XVIII with the Railroad Retirement Board.
(2) Unless an extension of time has been granted for good cause shown, a request for a hearing must be filed within 60 days after the receipt of the notice of the reconsidered or revised determination, or after an initial determination described in 42 CFR 498.3(b) and (c) (see §§ 404.933, 410.631, and 416.1433 of this chapter and 42 CFR 405.722, 498.40, and 417.260.)
(c)
Hearing decision or other action.
Generally, the administrative law judge, or an administrative appeals judge under § 404.956 or § 416.1456 of this chapter, will either decide the case after hearing (unless hearing is waived) or, if appropriate, dismiss the request for a hearing. With respect to a hearing on a determination under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the administrative law judge may certify the case with a recommended decision to the Appeals Council for decision. The administrative law judge, or an attorney advisor under § 404.942 or § 416.1442 of this chapter, or an administrative appeals judge under § 404.956 or § 416.1456 of this chapter, must base the hearing decision on the preponderance of the evidence offered at the hearing or otherwise included in the record.
[41 FR 53791, Dec. 9, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 34942, June 18, 1979; 51 FR 308, Jan. 3, 1986; 54 FR 4268, Jan. 30, 1989; 73 FR 76945, Dec. 18, 2008; 85 FR 73161, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 422.205
Proceedings before the Appeals Council.
(a)
Administrative Appeals Judge hearing decisions.
Administrative Appeals Judge decisions and dismissals issued on hearing requests removed under §§ 404.956 and 416.1456 of this chapter and decisions and dismissals described in § 422.203(c) require the signature of one Administrative Appeals Judge. Requests for review of hearing decisions issued by an Administrative Appeals Judge may be filed pursuant to §§ 404.968 and 416.1468 of this chapter and paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Appeals Council review.
Any party to a hearing decision or dismissal may request a review of such action by the Appeals Council. This request may be made on Form HA-520, Request for Review of Hearing Decision/Order, or by
any other writing specifically requesting review. Form HA-520 may be obtained from any Social Security district office or branch office, or at any other office where a request for a hearing may be filed. (For time and place of filing, see §§ 404.968 and 416.1468 of this chapter.)
(c)
Review of a hearing decision, dismissal, or denial.
The denial of a request for review of a hearing decision concerning a determination under § 422.203(a)(1) shall be by such appeals officer or appeals officers or by such member or members of the Appeals Council as may be designated in the manner prescribed by the Chair or Deputy Chair. The denial of a request for review of a hearing dismissal, the dismissal of a request for review, the denial of a request for review of a hearing decision whenever such hearing decision after such denial would not be subject to judicial review as explained in § 422.210(a), or the refusal of a request to reopen a hearing or Appeals Council decision concerning a determination under § 422.203(a)(1) shall be by such member or members of the Appeals Council as may be designated in the manner prescribed by the Chair or Deputy Chair.
(d)
Appeals Council review panel.
Whenever the Appeals Council reviews a hearing decision under §§ 404.967, 404.969, 416.1467, or 416.1469 of this chapter and the claimant does not appear personally or through representation before the Appeals Council to present oral argument, such review will be conducted by a panel of not less than two members of the Appeals Council designated in the manner prescribed by the Chair or Deputy Chair of the Appeals Council. In the event of disagreement between a panel composed of only two members, the Chair or Deputy Chair, or his or her delegate, who must be a member of the Appeals Council, shall participate as a third member of the panel. When the claimant appears in person or through representation before the Appeals Council in the location designated by the Appeals Council, the review will be conducted by a panel of not less than three members of the Appeals Council designated in the manner prescribed by the Chair or Deputy Chair. Concurrence of a majority of a panel shall constitute the decision of the Appeals Council unless the case is considered as provided under paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)
Appeals Council meetings.
On call of the Chair, the Appeals Council may meet en banc or a representative body of Appeals Council members may be convened to consider any case arising under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section. Such representative body shall be comprised of a panel of not less than five members designated by the Chair as deemed appropriate for the matter to be considered. The Chair or Deputy Chair shall preside, or in his or her absence, the Chair shall designate a member of the Appeals Council to preside. A majority vote of the designated panel, or of the members present and voting, shall constitute the decision of the Appeals Council.
(f)
Temporary assignments of ALJs.
The Chair may designate an administrative law judge to serve as a member of the Appeals Council for temporary assignments. An administrative law judge shall not be designated to serve as a member on any panel where such panel is conducting review on a case in which such individual has been previously involved.
[85 FR 73161, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 422.210
Judicial review.
(a)
General.
A claimant may obtain judicial review of a decision by an administrative law judge or administrative appeals judge if the Appeals Council has denied the claimant's request for review, or of a decision by the Appeals Council when that is the final decision of the Commissioner. A claimant may also obtain judicial review of a reconsidered determination, or of a decision of an administrative law judge or an administrative appeals judge, where, under the expedited appeals procedure, further administrative review is waived by agreement under § 404.926 or § 416.1426 of this chapter or as appropriate. There are no amount-in-controversy limitations on these rights of appeal.
(b)
Court in which to institute civil action.
Any civil action described in paragraph (a) of this section must be instituted in the district court of the United States for the judicial district
in which the claimant resides or where such individual or institution or agency has his principal place of business. If the individual does not reside within any such judicial district, or if such individual or institution or agency does not have his principal place of business within any such judicial district, the civil action must be instituted in the District Court of the United States for the District of Columbia.
(c)
Time for instituting civil action.
Any civil action described in paragraph (a) of this section must be instituted within 60 days after the Appeals Council's notice of denial of request for review of the administrative law judge's decision or notice of the decision by the Appeals Council is received by the individual, institution, or agency, except that this time may be extended by the Appeals Council upon a showing of good cause. For purposes of this section, the date of receipt of notice of denial of request for review of the presiding officer's decision or notice of the decision by the Appeals Council shall be presumed to be 5 days after the date of such notice, unless there is a reasonable showing to the contrary. Where pursuant to the expedited appeals procedures an agreement has been entered into under 42 CFR 405.718c, a civil action under section 205(g) of the Act must be commenced within 60 days from the date of the signing of such agreement by, or on behalf of, the Commissioner, except where the time described in the first sentence of this paragraph (c) has been extended by the Commissioner upon a showing of good cause. Where pursuant to the expedited appeals procedures an agreement has been entered into under § 404.926, § 410.629d, or § 416.1426 of this chapter, a civil action under section 205(g) of the Act must be commenced within 60 days after the date the individual receives notice (a signed copy of the agreement will be mailed to the individual and will constitute notice) of the signing of such agreement by, or on behalf of, the Commissioner, except where the time described in this paragraph (c) has been extended by the Commissioner upon a showing of good cause.
(d)
Proper defendant.
Where any civil action described in paragraph (a) of this section is instituted, the person holding the Office of the Commissioner shall, in his official capacity, be the proper defendant. Any such civil action properly instituted shall survive notwithstanding any change of the person holding the Office of the Commissioner or any vacancy in such office. If the complaint is erroneously filed against the United States or against any agency, officer, or employee of the United States other than the Commissioner, the plaintiff will be notified that he has named an incorrect defendant and will be granted 60 days from the date of receipt of such notice in which to commence the action against the correct defendant, the Commissioner.
(e)
Appeals Council review panel after Federal court remand.
When the Appeals Council holds a hearing under § 404.983 or § 416.1483 of this chapter, such hearing will be conducted and a decision will be issued by a panel of not less than two members of the Appeals Council designated in the manner prescribed by the Chair or Deputy Chair of the Appeals Council. When the Appeals Council issues a decision under §§ 404.983 and 416.1483 of this chapter without holding a hearing, a decision will be issued by a panel of not less than two members of the Council designated in the same manner prescribed by the Chair or Deputy Chair of the Council. In the event of disagreement between a panel composed of only two members, the Chair or Deputy Chair, or his or her delegate, who must be a member of the Council, shall participate as a third member of the panel.
[41 FR 53792, Dec. 9, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 34942, June 18, 1979; 49 FR 46370, Nov. 26, 1984; 49 FR 48036, Dec. 10, 1984; 54 FR 4268, Jan. 30, 1989; 62 FR 38456, July 18, 1997; 85 FR 73162, Nov. 16, 2020]

# Subpart D—Claims Collection

# Authority:
Secs. 204(f), 205(a), 702(a)(5), and 1631(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 404(f), 405(a), 902(a)(5), and 1383(b)); 5 U.S.C. 5514; 31 U.S.C. 3711(e); 31 U.S.C. 3716.

# Source:
62 FR 64278, Dec. 5, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 422.301
Scope of this subpart.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, this subpart
describes the procedures relating to collection of:
(1) Overdue administrative debts, and
(2) Overdue program overpayments described in §§ 404.527 and 416.590 of this chapter.
(b) This subpart does not apply to administrative debts owed by employees of the Social Security Administration, including, but not limited to, overpayment of pay and allowances.
(c) The following exceptions apply only to Federal salary offset as described in § 422.310(a)(1).
(1) We will not use this subpart to collect a debt while the debtor's disability benefits are stopped during the reentitlement period, under § 404.1592a(a)(2) of this chapter, because the debtor is engaging in substantial gainful activity.
(2) We will not use this subpart to collect a debt while the debtor's Medicare entitlement is continued because the debtor is deemed to be entitled to disability benefits under section 226(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 426(b)).
(3) We will not use this subpart to collect a debt if the debtor has decided to participate in the Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program and the debtor's ticket is in use as described in §§ 411.170 through 411.225 of this chapter.
[71 FR 38070, July 5, 2006]
§ 422.303
Interest, late payment penalties, and administrative costs of collection.
We may charge the debtor with interest, late payment penalties, and our costs of collection on delinquent debts covered by this subpart when authorized by our regulations issued in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR 901.9).
[71 FR 38070, July 5, 2006]
§ 422.305
Report of overdue program overpayment debts to consumer reporting agencies.
(a)
Debts we will report.
We will report to consumer reporting agencies all overdue program overpayment debts over $25.
(b)
Notice to debtor.
Before we report any such debt to a consumer reporting agency, we will send the debtor written notice of the following:
(1) We have determined that payment of the debt is overdue;
(2) We will refer the debt to a consumer reporting agency at the expiration of not less than 60 calendar days after the date of the notice unless, within that 60-day period, the debtor pays the full amount of the debt or takes either of the actions described in paragraphs (b)(6) or (b)(7) of this section;
(3) The specific information we will provide to the consumer reporting agency, including information that identifies the debtor (e.g., name, address, and social security number) and the amount, status, and history of the debt;
(4) The debtor has the right to a complete explanation of the debt;
(5) The debtor may dispute the accuracy of the information to be provided to the consumer reporting agency;
(6) The debtor may request a review of the debt by giving us evidence showing that he or she does not owe all or part of the amount of the debt or that we do not have the right to collect it; and
(7) The debtor may request an installment payment plan.
(c)
Disputing the information that we would send to consumer reporting agencies.
If a debtor believes that the information we propose to send to consumer reporting agencies is incorrect, the debtor may ask us to correct such information. If, within 60 calendar days from the date of our notice described in paragraph (b) of this section, the debtor notifies us that any information to be sent to consumer reporting agencies is incorrect, we will not send the information to consumer reporting agencies until we determine the correct information.
[62 FR 64278, Dec. 5, 1997, as amended at 66 FR 67081, Dec. 28, 2001]
§ 422.306
Report of overdue administrative debts to credit reporting agencies.
(a)
Debts we will report.
We will report to credit reporting agencies all overdue administrative debts over $25. Some examples of administrative debts are as
follows: debts for civil monetary penalties imposed under section 1140(b) of the Act, debts for unpaid fees for reimbursable services performed by SSA (e.g., disclosures of information), and contractor debts.
(b)
Notice to debtor.
Before we report any administrative debt to a credit reporting agency, we will send the debtor written notice of the following:
(1) We have determined that payment of the debt is overdue;
(2) We will refer the debt to a credit reporting agency at the expiration of not less than 60 calendar days after the date of the notice unless, within that 60-day period, the debtor pays the full amount of the debt or takes either of the actions described in paragraphs (b)(6) or (b)(7) of this section;
(3) The specific information we will provide to the credit reporting agency, including information that identifies the debtor (e.g., name, address, social security number, and employer identification number) and the amount, status, and history of the debt;
(4) The debtor has the right to a complete explanation of the debt;
(5) The debtor may dispute the accuracy of the information to be provided to the credit reporting agency;
(6) The debtor may request a review of the debt by giving us evidence showing that he or she does not owe all or part of the amount of the debt or that we do not have the right to collect it; and
(7) The debtor may request an installment payment plan.
[62 FR 64278, Dec. 5, 1997, as amended at 71 FR 38070, July 5, 2006]
§ 422.310
Collection of overdue debts by administrative offset.
(a)
Referral to the Department of the Treasury for offset.
(1) We recover overdue debts by offsetting Federal and State payments due the debtor through the Treasury Offset Program (TOP). TOP is a Government-wide delinquent debt matching and payment offset process operated by the Department of the Treasury, whereby debts owed to the Federal Government are collected by offsetting them against Federal and State payments owed the debtor. Federal payments owed the debtor include current “disposable pay,” defined in 5 CFR 550.1103, owed by the Federal Government to a debtor who is an employee of the Federal Government. Deducting from such disposable pay to collect an overdue debt owed by the employee is called “Federal salary offset” in this subpart.
(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of § 422.301, we will use Federal salary offset to collect overdue debts from Federal employees, including employees of the Social Security Administration. A Federal employee's involuntary payment of all or part of a debt collected by Federal salary offset does not amount to a waiver of any rights which the employee may have under any statute or contract, unless a statute or contract provides for waiver of such rights.
(b)
Debts we refer.
We refer for administrative offset all qualifying debts that meet or exceed the threshold amounts used by the Department of the Treasury for collection from State and Federal payments, including Federal salaries.
(c)
Notice to debtor.
Before we refer any debt for collection by administrative offset, we will send the debtor written notice that explains all of the following:
(1) The nature and amount of the debt.
(2) We have determined that payment of the debt is overdue.
(3) We will refer the debt for administrative offset (except as provided in paragraph (c)(9) of this section) at the expiration of not less than 60 calendar days after the date of the notice unless, within that 60-day period:
(i) The debtor pays the full amount of the debt, or
(ii) The debtor takes any of the actions described in paragraphs (c)(6) or (c)(7) of this section.
(4) The frequency and amount of any Federal salary offset deduction (the payment schedule) expressed as a fixed dollar amount or percentage of disposable pay.
(5) The debtor may inspect or copy our records relating to the debt. If the debtor or his or her representative cannot personally inspect the records, the debtor may request and receive a copy of such records.
(6) The debtor may request a review of the debt by giving us evidence showing that the debtor does not owe all or part of the amount of the debt or that we do not have the right to collect it. The debtor may also request review of any payment schedule for Federal salary offset stated in the notice. If the debtor is an employee of the Federal Government and Federal salary offset is proposed, an official designated in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(2) will conduct the review.
(7) The debtor may request to repay the debt voluntarily through an installment payment plan.
(8) If the debtor knowingly furnishes any false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence, the debtor may be subject to:
(i) Civil or criminal penalties under applicable statutes;
(ii) Appropriate disciplinary procedures under applicable statutes or regulations, when the debtor is a Federal employee.
(9) We will refer the debt for Federal salary offset at the expiration of not less than 30 calendar days after the date of the notice unless, within that 30 day period the debtor takes any actions described in paragraphs (c)(3)(i), (c)(6) or (c)(7) of this section.
(d)
Federal salary offset: amount, frequency and duration of deductions.
(1) We may collect the overdue debt from an employee of the Federal Government through the deduction of an amount not to exceed 15% of the debtor's current disposable pay each payday.
(2) Federal salary offset will begin no sooner than the first payday following 30 calendar days after the date of the notice to the debtor described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) Once begun, Federal salary offset will continue until we recover the full amount of the debt, the debt is otherwise resolved, or the debtor's Federal employment ceases, whichever occurs first.
(4) After Federal salary offset begins, the debtor may request a reduction in the amount deducted from disposable pay each payday. When we determine that the amount deducted causes financial harm under the rules in § 422.415(b), (c), and (d) of this chapter, we will reduce that amount.
(e)
Refunds.
We will promptly refund to the debtor any amounts collected that the debtor does not owe. Refunds do not bear interest unless required or permitted by law or contract.
[71 FR 38070, July 5, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 65109, Oct. 20, 2011]
§ 422.315
Review of our records related to the debt.
(a)
Notification by the debtor.
The debtor may request to inspect or copy our records related to the debt.
(b)
Our response.
In response to a request from the debtor described in paragraph (a) of this section, we will notify the debtor of the location and time at which the debtor may inspect or copy our records related to the debt. We may also, at our discretion, mail to the debtor copies of the records relating to the debt.
§ 422.317
Review of the debt.
(a)
Notification and presentation of evidence by the debtor.
A debtor who receives a notice described in § 422.305(b), § 422.306(b), or § 422.310(c) has a right to have a review of the debt and the payment schedule for Federal salary offset stated in the notice. To exercise this right, the debtor must notify us and give us evidence that he or she does not owe all or part of the debt, or that we do not have the right to collect it, or that the payment schedule for Federal salary offset stated in the notice would cause financial hardship.
(1) If the debtor notifies us and presents evidence within 60 calendar days from the date of our notice (except as provided for Federal salary offset in paragraph (a)(3) of this section), we will not take the action described in our notice unless and until review of all of the evidence is complete and we send the debtor the findings that all or part of the debt is overdue and legally enforceable.
(2) If the debtor notifies us and presents evidence after that 60 calendar-day period expires (except as provided for Federal salary offset in paragraph (a)(4) of this section) and paragraph (b) of this section does not apply, the review will occur, but we may take the
actions described in our notice without further delay.
(3) If the debtor notifies us and presents evidence within 30 calendar days from the date of our notice, we will not refer the debt for Federal salary offset unless and until review of all of the evidence is complete and we send the debtor the findings that all or part of the debt is overdue and legally enforceable and (if appropriate) the findings on the payment schedule for Federal salary offset.
(4) If the debtor notifies us and presents evidence after that 30 calendar-day period expires and paragraph (b) of this section does not apply, the review will occur, but we may refer the debt for Federal salary offset without further delay.
(b)
Good cause for failure to timely request review.
(1) If we decide that the debtor has good cause for failing to request review within the applicable period mentioned in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section, we will treat the request for review as if we received it within the applicable period.
(2) We will determine good cause under the rules in § 422.410(b)(1) and (2) of this chapter.
(c)
Review of the evidence.
The review will cover our records and any evidence and statements presented by the debtor.
(d)
Special rules regarding Federal salary offset.
(1) When we use Federal salary offset to collect a debt owed by an employee of the Federal Government, an official designated in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(2) will conduct the review described in this section and will issue the findings.
(2) In addition to the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Federal employee must submit the request for review in writing. The request must
(i) Be signed by the employee,
(ii) Explain with reasonable specificity the facts and evidence that support the employee's position, and
(iii) Include the names of any witnesses.
(3) In reviewing the payment schedule described in the notice to the Federal employee, the reviewing official must apply the rules in § 422.415(b), (c), and (d) of this chapter regarding financial hardship.
(4) The reviewing official will review our records and any documents, written statements, or other evidence submitted by the debtor and issue written findings.
(5) The reviewing official will complete the review within 60 calendar days from the date on which the request for review and the debtor's evidence are received. If the reviewing official does not complete the review within that 60-day period and the debt was referred to the Department of the Treasury for Federal salary offset, we will notify the Department of the Treasury to suspend Federal salary offset. Offset will not begin or resume before we send the debtor findings that all or part of the debt is overdue and legally enforceable or (if appropriate) findings on the payment schedule.
(e)
The findings.
(1) Following the review described in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, we will send the written findings to the debtor. The findings will state the nature and origin of the debt, the analysis, findings and conclusions regarding the amount and validity of the debt, and, when appropriate, the repayment schedule for Federal salary offset. Issuance of these findings will be the final action on the debtor's request for review.
(2) If the findings state that an individual does not owe the debt, or the debt is not overdue, or we do not have the right to collect it, we will not send information about the debt to consumer or other credit reporting agencies or refer the debt to the Department of the Treasury for administrative offset. If we had referred the debt to the Department of the Treasury for administrative offset, we will cancel that action. If we had informed consumer or credit reporting agencies about the debt, we will inform them of the findings.
(3) If the findings state that the payment schedule for Federal salary offset would cause financial hardship, we will notify the debtor and the Department of the Treasury of the new payment schedule.
[71 FR 38071, July 5, 2006]

# Subpart E—Collection of Debts by Administrative Wage Garnishment

# Authority:
Secs. 205(a), 702(a)(5) and 1631(d)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(a), 902(a)(5) and 1383(d)(1)) and 31 U.S.C. 3720D.

# Source:
68 FR 74184, Dec. 23, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 422.401
What is the scope of this subpart?
This subpart describes the procedures relating to our use of administrative wage garnishment under 31 U.S.C. 3720D to recover past due debts that you owe.
§ 422.402
What special definitions apply to this subpart?
(a)
Administrative wage garnishment
is a process whereby we order your employer to withhold a certain amount from your disposable pay and send the withheld amount to us. The law requires your employer to comply with our garnishment order.
(b)
Debt
means any amount of money or property that we determine is owed to the United States and that arises from a program that we administer or an activity that we perform. These debts include program overpayments made under title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act and any other debt that meets the definition of “claim” or “debt” at 31 U.S.C. 3701(b).
(c)
Disposable pay
means that part of your total compensation (including, but not limited to, salary or wages, bonuses, commissions, and vacation pay) from your employer after deduction of health insurance premiums and amounts withheld as required by law. Amounts withheld as required by law include such things as Federal, State and local taxes but do not include amounts withheld under court order.
(d)
We, our,
or
us
means the Social Security Administration.
(e)
You
means an individual who owes a debt to the United States within the scope of this subpart.
§ 422.403
When may we use administrative wage garnishment?
(a)
General.
Subject to the exceptions described in paragraph (b) of this section and the conditions described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, we may use administrative wage garnishment to collect any debt that is past due. We may use administrative wage garnishment while we are taking other action regarding the debt, such as, using tax refund offset under §§ 404.520-404.526 and 416.580-416.586 of this chapter and taking action under subpart D of this part.
(b)
Exceptions.
(1) We will not use this subpart to collect a debt from salary or wages paid by the United States Government.
(2) If you have been separated involuntarily from employment, we will not order your employer to withhold amounts from your disposable pay until you have been reemployed continuously for at least 12 months. You have the burden of informing us about an involuntary separation from employment.
(3) We will not use this subpart to collect a debt while your disability benefits are stopped during the reentitlement period, under § 404.1592a(a)(2) of this chapter, because you are engaging in substantial gainful activity.
(4) We will not use this subpart to collect a debt while your Medicare entitlement is continued because you are deemed to be entitled to disability benefits under section 226(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 426(b)).
(5) We will not use this subpart to collect a debt if you have decided to participate in the Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program and your ticket is in use as described in §§ 411.170 through 411.225 of this chapter.
(c)
Overpayments under title II of the Social Security Act.
This subpart applies to overpayments under title II of the Social Security Act if all of the following conditions are met:
(1) You are not receiving title II benefits.
(2) We have completed our billing system sequence (
i.e.,
we have sent you an initial notice of the overpayment, a reminder notice, and a past-due notice) or we have suspended or terminated collection activity in accordance with applicable rules, such as, the Federal Claims Collection Standards in 31 CFR 903.2 or 31 CFR 903.3.
(3) We have not made an installment payment arrangement with you or, if
we have made such an arrangement, you have failed to make any payment for two consecutive months.
(4) You have not requested waiver pursuant to § 404.506 or § 404.522 of this chapter or, after a review conducted pursuant to those sections, we have determined that we will not waive collection of the overpayment.
(5) You have not requested reconsideration of the initial overpayment determination pursuant to §§ 404.907 and 404.909 of this chapter or, after a review conducted pursuant to § 404.913 of this chapter, we have affirmed all or part of the initial overpayment determination.
(6) We cannot recover your overpayment pursuant to § 404.502 of this chapter by adjustment of benefits payable to any individual other than you. For purposes of this paragraph, an overpayment will be deemed to be unrecoverable from any individual who was living in a separate household from yours at the time of the overpayment and who did not receive the overpayment.
(d)
Overpayments under title XVI of the Social Security Act.
This subpart applies to overpayments under title XVI of the Social Security Act if all of the following conditions are met:
(1) You are not receiving benefits under title XVI of the Social Security Act.
(2) We are not collecting your title XVI overpayment by reducing title II benefits payable to you.
(3) We have completed our billing system sequence (
i.e.,
we have sent you an initial notice of the overpayment, a reminder notice, and a past-due notice) or we have suspended or terminated collection activity under applicable rules, such as, the Federal Claims Collection Standards in 31 CFR 903.2 or 31 CFR 903.3.
(4) We have not made an installment payment arrangement with you or, if we have made such an arrangement, you have failed to make any payment for two consecutive months.
(5) You have not requested waiver pursuant to § 416.550 or § 416.582 of this chapter or, after a review conducted pursuant to those sections, we have determined that we will not waive collection of the overpayment.
(6) You have not requested reconsideration of the initial overpayment determination pursuant to §§ 416.1407 and 416.1409 of this chapter or, after a review conducted pursuant to § 416.1413 of this chapter, we have affirmed all or part of the initial overpayment determination.
(7) We cannot recover your overpayment pursuant to § 416.570 of this chapter by adjustment of benefits payable to any individual other than you. For purposes of this paragraph, if you are a member of an eligible couple that is legally separated and/or living apart, we will deem unrecoverable from the other person that part of your overpayment which he or she did not receive.
§ 422.405
What notice will we send you about administrative wage garnishment?
(a)
General.
Before we order your employer to collect a debt by deduction from your disposable pay, we will send you written notice of our intention to do so.
(b)
Contents of the notice.
The notice will contain the following information:
(1) We have determined that payment of the debt is past due;
(2) The nature and amount of the debt;
(3) Information about the amount that your employer could withhold from your disposable pay each payday (the payment schedule);
(4) No sooner than 60 calendar days after the date of the notice, we will order your employer to withhold the debt from your disposable pay unless, within that 60-day period, you pay the full amount of the debt or take either of the actions described in paragraphs (b)(6) or (7) of this section;
(5) You may inspect and copy our records about the debt (
see
§ 422.420);
(6) You may request a review of the debt (
see
§ 422.425) or the payment schedule stated in the notice (
see
§ 422.415); and
(7) You may request to pay the debt by monthly installment payments to us.
(c)
Mailing address.
We will send the notice to the most current mailing address that we have for you in our records.
(d)
Electronic record of the notice.
We will keep an electronic record of the notice that shows the date we mailed
the notice to you and the amount of your debt.
§ 422.410
What actions will we take after we send you the notice?
(a)
General.
(1) We will not send an administrative wage garnishment order to your employer before 60 calendar days elapse from the date of the notice described in § 422.405.
(2) If paragraph (b) of this section does not apply and you do not pay the debt in full or do not take either of the actions described in § 422.405(b)(6) or (7) within 60 calendar days from the date of the notice described in § 422.405, we may order your employer to withhold and send us part of your disposable pay each payday until your debt is paid.
(3) If you request review of the debt or the payment schedule after the end of the 60 calendar day period described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and paragraph (b) of this section does not apply, we will conduct the review. However, we may send the administrative wage garnishment order to your employer without further delay. If we sent the administrative wage garnishment order to your employer and we do not make our decision on your request within 60 calendar days from the date that we received your request, we will tell your employer to stop withholding from your disposable pay. Withholding will not resume before we conduct the review and notify you of our decision.
(4) We may send an administrative wage garnishment order to your employer without further delay if:
(i) You request an installment payment plan after receiving the notice described in § 422.405, and
(ii) We arrange such a plan with you, and
(iii) You fail to make payments in accordance with that arrangement for two consecutive months.
(b)
Good cause for failing to request review on time.
If we decide that you had good cause for failing to request review within the 60-day period mentioned in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, we will treat your request for review as if we received it within that 60-day period.
(1)
Determining good cause.
In determining whether you had good cause, we will consider—
(i) Any circumstances that kept you from making the request on time;
(ii) Whether our action misled you;
(iii) Whether you had any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which prevented you from making a request on time or from understanding the need to make a request on time.
(2)
Examples of good cause.
Examples of facts supporting good cause include, but are not limited to, the following.
(i) Your serious illness prevented you from contacting us yourself or through another person.
(ii) There was a death or serious illness in your family.
(iii) Fire or other accidental cause destroyed important records.
(iv) You did not receive the notice described in § 422.405.
(v) In good faith, you sent the request to another government agency within the 60-day period, and we received the request after the end of that period.
(3)
If we issued the administrative wage garnishment order.
If we determine that you had good cause under paragraph (b) of this section and we already had sent an administrative wage garnishment order to your employer, we will tell your employer to stop withholding from your disposable pay. Withholding will not resume until we conduct the review and notify you of our decision.
§ 422.415
Will we reduce the amount that your employer must withhold from your pay when withholding that amount causes financial hardship?
(a)
General.
Unless paragraph (d) of this section applies, we will reduce the amount that your employer must withhold from your pay when you request the reduction and we find financial hardship. In any event, we will not reduce the amount your employer must withhold each payday below $10. When we decide to reduce the amount that your employer withholds, we will give you and your employer written notice.
(1) You may ask us at any time to reduce the amount due to financial hardship.
(2) If you request review of the payment schedule stated in the notice described in § 422.405 within the 60-day period stated in the notice, we will not issue a garnishment order to your employer until we notify you of our decision.
(b)
Financial hardship.
We will find financial hardship when you show that withholding a particular amount from your pay would deprive you of income necessary to meet your ordinary and necessary living expenses. You must give us evidence of your financial resources and expenses.
(c)
Ordinary and necessary living expenses.
Ordinary and necessary living expenses include:
(1) Fixed expenses such as food, clothing, housing, utilities, maintenance, insurance, tax payments;
(2) Medical, hospitalization and similar expenses;
(3) Expenses for the support of others for whom you are legally responsible; and
(4) Other reasonable and necessary miscellaneous expenses which are part of your standard of living.
(d)
Fraud and willful concealment or failure to furnish information.
(1) We will not reduce the amount that your employer withholds from your disposable pay if your debt was caused by:
(i) Your intentional false statement, or
(ii) Your willful concealment of, or failure to furnish, material information.
(2) “Willful concealment” means an intentional, knowing and purposeful delay in providing, or failure to reveal, material information.
§ 422.420
May you inspect and copy our records related to the debt?
You may inspect and copy our records related to the debt. You must notify us of your intention to review our records. After you notify us, we will arrange with you the place and time the records will be available to you. At our discretion, we may send copies of the records to you.
§ 422.425
How will we conduct our review of the debt?
(a)
You must request review and present evidence.
If you receive a notice described in § 422.405, you have the right to have us review the debt. To exercise this right, you must request review and give us evidence that you do not owe all or part of the debt or that we do not have the right to collect it. If you do not request review and give us this evidence within 60 calendar days from the date of our notice, we may issue the garnishment order to your employer without further delay. If you request review of the debt and present evidence within that 60 calendar-day period, we will not send a garnishment order to your employer unless and until we consider all of the evidence and send you our findings that all or part of the debt is overdue and we have the right to collect it.
(b)
Review of the evidence.
If you request review of the debt, we will review our records related to the debt and any evidence that you present.
(c)
Our findings.
Following our review of all of the evidence, we will send you written findings, including the supporting rationale for the findings. Issuance of these findings will be our final action on your request for review. If we find that you do not owe the debt, or the debt is not overdue, or we do not have the right to collect it, we will not send a garnishment order to your employer.
§ 422.430
When will we refund amounts of your pay withheld by administrative wage garnishment?
If we find that you do not owe the debt or that we have no right to collect it, we will promptly refund to you any amount withheld from your disposable pay under this subpart that we received and cancel any administrative wage garnishment order that we issued. Refunds under this section will not bear interest unless Federal law or contract requires interest.
§ 422.435
What happens when we decide to send an administrative wage garnishment order to your employer?
(a)
The wage garnishment order.
The wage garnishment order that we send to your employer will contain only the information necessary for the employer to comply with the order. This information includes:
(1) Your name, address, and social security number,
(2) The amount of the debt,
(3) Information about the amount to be withheld, and
(4) Information about where to send the withheld amount.
(b)
Electronic record of the garnishment order.
We will keep an electronic record of the garnishment order that shows the date we mailed the order to your employer.
(c)
Employer certification.
Along with the garnishment order, we will send your employer a certification form to complete about your employment status and the amount of your disposable pay available for withholding. Your employer must complete the certification and return it to us within 20 days of receipt.
(d)
Amounts to be withheld from your disposable pay.
After receipt of the garnishment order issued under this section, your employer must begin withholding from your disposable pay each payday the lesser of:
(1) The amount indicated on the order (up to 15% of your disposable pay); or
(2) The amount by which your disposable pay exceeds thirty times the minimum wage as provided in 15 U.S.C. 1673(a)(2).
(e)
Multiple withholding orders.
If your disposable pay is subject to more than one withholding order, we apply the following rules to determine the amount that your employer will withhold from your disposable pay:
(1) Unless otherwise provided by Federal law or paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a garnishment order issued under this section has priority over other withholding orders served later in time.
(2) Withholding orders for family support have priority over garnishment orders issued under this section.
(3) If at the time we issue a garnishment order to your employer amounts are already being withheld from your pay under another withholding order, or if a withholding order for family support is served on your employer at any time, the amounts to be withheld under this section will be the lesser of:
(i) The amount calculated under paragraph (d) of this section; or
(ii) The amount calculated by subtracting the amount(s) withheld under the withholding order(s) with priority from 25% of your disposable pay.
(4) If you owe more than one debt to us, we may issue multiple garnishment orders. If we issue more than one garnishment order, the total amount to be withheld from your disposable pay under such orders will not exceed the amount set forth in paragraph (d) or (e)(3) of this section, as appropriate.
(f)
You may request that your employer withhold more.
If you request in writing that your employer withhold more than the amount determined under paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section, we will order your employer to withhold the amount that you request.
§ 422.440
What are your employer's responsibilities under an administrative wage garnishment order?
(a)
When withholding must begin.
Your employer must withhold the appropriate amount from your disposable pay on each payday beginning on the first payday after receiving the garnishment order issued under this section. If the first payday is within 10 days after your employer receives the order, then your employer must begin withholding on the first or second payday after your employer receives the order. Withholding must continue until we notify your employer to stop withholding.
(b)
Payment of amounts withheld.
Your employer must promptly pay to us all amounts withheld under this section.
(c)
Other assignments or allotments of pay.
Your employer cannot honor an assignment or allotment of your pay to the extent that it would interfere with or prevent withholding under this section, unless the assignment or allotment is made under a family support judgement or order.
(d)
Effect of withholding on employer pay and disbursement cycles.
Your employer will not be required to vary its normal pay and disbursement cycles in order to comply with the garnishment order.
(e)
When withholding ends.
When we have fully recovered the amounts you owe, including interest, penalties, and administrative costs that we charge you as allowed by law, we will tell your
employer to stop withholding from your disposable pay. As an added precaution, we will review our debtors' accounts at least annually to ensure that withholding has been terminated for accounts paid in full.
(f)
Certain actions by an employer against you are prohibited.
Federal law prohibits an employer from using a garnishment order issued under this section as the basis for discharging you from employment, refusing to employ you, or taking disciplinary action against you. If your employer violates this prohibition, you may file a civil action against your employer in a Federal or State court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 422.445
May we bring a civil action against your employer for failure to comply with our administrative wage garnishment order?
(a) We may bring a civil action against your employer for any amount that the employer fails to withhold from your disposable pay in accordance with § 422.435(d), (e) and (f). Your employer may also be liable for attorney fees, costs of the lawsuit and (in the court's discretion) punitive damages.
(b) We will not file a civil action against your employer before we terminate collection action against you, unless earlier filing is necessary to avoid expiration of any applicable statute of limitations period. For purposes of this section, “terminate collection action” means that we have terminated collection action in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR 903.3) or other applicable standards. In any event, we will consider that collection action has been terminated if we have not received any payments to satisfy the debt for a period of one year.

# Subpart F—Applications and Related Forms

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1320b-10(a)(2)(A).
§ 422.501
Applications and other forms used in Social Security Administration programs.
This subpart lists the applications and some of the related forms prescribed by the Social Security Administration for use by the public in applying for benefits under titles II and XVIII of the Social Security Act and the black lung benefits program (Part B, title IV of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended).
[38 FR 11450, May 8, 1973]
§ 422.505
What types of applications and related forms are used to apply for retirement, survivors, and disability insurance benefits?
(a)
Applications.
Prescribed applications include our traditional pre-printed forms, and applications our employees complete on computer screens based on information you give us. We then print a copy on paper, have you sign it and process the signed application electronically. You may also use SSA's Internet website to submit an SSA-approved application to us. You can complete an Internet application on a computer (or other suitable device, such as an electronic kiosk) and electronically transmit the form to us using an SSA-approved electronic signature. If, however, we do not have an approved electronic signature established when you file your Internet application, you must print and sign the completed application and deliver the form to us.
(b)
Related forms.
The following are some related forms:
SSA-3—Marriage Certification. (For use in connection with Application for Wife's or Husband's Insurance Benefits, (Form SSA-2))
SSA-11—Request to be Selected as Payee. (For use when an individual proposing to be substituted for the current payee files an application to receive payment of benefits on behalf of disabled child, or a child under 18, or an incapable or incompetent beneficiary or for himself/herself if he/she has a payee.)
SSA-21—Supplement to Claim of Person Outside of the United States. (To be completed by or on behalf of a person who is, was, or will be outside the United States.)
SSA-25—Certificate of Election for Reduced Spouse's Benefits. (For use by a wife or husband age 62 to full retirement age who has an entitled child in his or her care and elects to receive reduced benefits for months during which he or she will not have a child in his or her care.)
SSA-721—Statement of Death by Funeral Director. (This form may be used as evidence of death (
see
§ 404.704 of this chapter).)
SSA-760—Certificate of Support (Parent's, Husband's or Widower's). (For use in collecting evidence of support.)
SSA-766—Statement of Self-Employment Income. (For use by a claimant to establish insured status based on self-employment income in the current year.)
SSA-783—Statement Regarding Contributions. (This form may be used as evidence of total contributions for a child.)
SSA-787—Physician's/Medical Officer's Statement of Patient's Capability to Manage Benefits. (This form may be used to request evidence of capability from various medical sources.)
SSA-824—Report on Individual with Mental Impairment. (For use in obtaining medical evidence from medical sources when the claimant has been treated for a mental impairment.)
SSA-827—Authorization for Source to Release Information to the Social Security Administration. (To be completed by a disability claimant to authorize release of medical or other information.)
SSA-1002—Statement of Agricultural Employer (Years Prior to 1988). (For use by employer to provide evidence of annual wage payments for agricultural work.)
SSA-1372—Student's Statement Regarding School Attendance. (For use in connection with request for payment of child's insurance benefits for a child who is age 18 through 19 and a full-time student.
SSA-1724—Claim for Amount Due in the Case of a Deceased Beneficiary. (For use in requesting amounts payable under title II to a deceased beneficiary.)
SSA-3368—Disability Report—Adult. (For use in recording information about the claimant's condition, source of medical evidence and other information needed to process the claim to a determination or decision.)
SSA-3369—Disability Report—Work History. (For use in recording work history information.)
SSA-3826-F4—Medical Report—General. (For use in helping disability claimants in obtaining medical records from their doctors or other medical sources.)
SSA-3827—Medical Report—(Individual with Childhood Impairment). (For use in requesting information to determine if an individual's impairment meets the requirements for payment of childhood disability benefits.)
SSA-4111—Certificate of Election for Reduced Widow(er)s Benefits. (For use by applicants for certain reduced widow's or widower's benefits.)
SSA-7156—Farm Self-Employment Questionnaire. (For use in connection with claims for benefits based on farm income to determine whether the income is covered under the Social Security Act.)
SSA-7160—Employment Relationship Questionnaire. (For use by an individual and the alleged employer to determine the individual's employment status.)
SSA-7163—Questionnaire about Employment or Self-Employment Outside the United States. (To be completed by or on behalf of a beneficiary who is, was, or will be employed or self-employed outside the United States.)
[69 FR 499, Jan. 6, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 14978, Mar. 24, 2005]
§ 422.510
Applications and related forms used in the health insurance for the aged program.
(a)
Application forms.
The following forms are prescribed for use in applying for entitlement to benefits under the health insurance for the aged program:
SSA-18—Application for Hospital Insurance Entitlement. (For use by individuals who are not entitled to retirement benefits under title II of the Social Security Act or under the Railroad Retirement Act. This form may also be used for enrollment in the supplementary medical insurance benefits plan.)
SSA-40—Application for Enrollment in the Supplementary Medical Insurance Program. (This form is mailed directly to beneficiaries at the beginning of their initial enrollment period.)
SSA-40A—Application for Enrollment in Supplementary Medical Insurance. (For use by civil service employees who are not eligible for enrollment in the hospital insurance plan.)
SSA-40B—Application for Medical Insurance. (For general use in requesting medical insurance protection.)
SSA-40C—Application for Enrollment. (This form is mailed to beneficiaries as a followup on Form SSA-40 (Application for Enrollment in the Supplementary Medical Insurance Program).)
SSA-40F—Application for Medical Insurance. (For use by beneficiaries residing outside the United States.)
An individual who upon attainment of age 65 is entitled to a monthly benefit based on application OA-C1, SSA-2, OA-C7, OA-C10, SSA-10A, OA-C13, or SSA-14 is automatically entitled to hospital insurance protection. (For conditions of entitlement to hospital insurance benefits, see 42 CFR part 405, subpart A. For medical insurance protection, an applicant must request supplementary medical insurance coverage (see Forms SSA-40, SSA-40A,
SSA-40B, SSA-40C, and SSA-40F under § 422.510(a)). (For conditions of entitlement to supplementary medical insurance benefits, see 42 CFR part 405, subpart B.)
(b)
Related forms.
The following are the prescribed forms for use in requesting payment for services under the hospital insurance benefits program and the supplementary medical insurance benefits program and other related forms:
SSA-1453—Inpatient Hospital and Extended Care Admission and Billing. (To be completed by hospital for payment of hospital expenses for treatment of patient confined in hospital.)
SSA-1483—Provider Billing for Medical and Other Health Services. (To be completed by hospital for payment of hospital expenses for treatment of patient who is not confined in the hospital.)
SSA-1484—Explanation of Accommodation Furnished. (To be completed by the hospital to explain accommodation of a patient in other than a semiprivate (two- to four-bed) room.)
SSA-1486—Inpatient Admission and Billing—Christian Science Sanatorium. (To be completed by a Christian Science sanatorium for payment for treatment of patients confined in the sanatorium.)
SSA-1487—Home Health Agency Report and Billing. (For use by an organization providing home health services.)
SSA-1490—Request for Medicare Payment. (For use by patient or physician to request payment for medical expenses.)
SSA-1554—Provider Billing for Patient Services by Physicians. (For use by hospital for payment for services provided by hospital-based physicians.)
SSA-1556—Prepayment Plan for Group Medical Practices Dealing Through a Carrier. (For use by organizations (which have been determined to be group practice prepayment plans for medicare purposes) for reimbursement for medical services provided to beneficiaries.)
SSA-1660—Request for Information—Medicare Payment For Services to a Patient Now Deceased. (For use in requesting amounts payable under title XVIII to a deceased beneficiary.)
SSA-1739—Request for Enrollment Card Information by Foreign Beneficiary. (Used to notify beneficiaries approaching age 65 who reside in foreign countries that they are eligible to enroll for SMI. They return this form if they wish additional information and an application, SSA-40F.)
SSA-1966—Health Insurance Card. (This card is issued to a person entitled to benefits under the health insurance for the aged program and designates whether he is entitled to hospital insurance benefits or supplementary medical insurance benefits or both.
SSA-1980—Carrier or Intermediary Request for SSA Assistance.
SSA-2384—Third Party Premium Billing Request. (For use by a nonbeneficiary enrollee who must pay premiums by direct remittance and is having his premium notices sent to a third party to assure continuance of supplementary medical insurance.)
[32 FR 18030, Dec. 16, 1967, as amended at 38 FR 11451, May 8, 1973; 44 FR 34943, June 18, 1979]
§ 422.512
Applications and related forms used in the black lung benefits program.
(a)
Application forms.
The following forms are prescribed for use in applying for entitlement to benefits under part B of title IV of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended by the Black Lung Benefits Act of 1972:
SSA-46—Application for Benefits Under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended (Coal Miner's Claim of Total Disability).
SSA-47—Application for Benefits Under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended (Widow's Claim).
SSA-48—Application for Benefits Under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended (Child's Claim).
SSA-49—Application for Benefits Under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended (Parent's, Brother's and Sister's Claim).
(b)
Related forms.
The following are some related forms:
SSA-50—Request To Be Selected as Payee. (For use when the individual proposing to be substituted for current payee files application to receive payment of black lung benefits on behalf of himself, a disabled child or child under age 18, a student beneficiary, or an incompetent beneficiary.)
SSA-2179—Report by Person Entitled to Black Lung Benefits. (For use by person entitled to black lung benefits to report events which affect benefits.)
SAA-2210—Statement of Coal Mine Employment by United Mine Workers of America.
SSA-2325—Medical Report (Pneumoconiosis).
[38 FR 11451, May 8, 1973]
§ 422.515
Forms used for withdrawal, reconsideration and other appeals, appointment of representative, and representative registration.
The following is a list of forms prescribed by the Social Security Administration for use by the public to request a withdrawal of an application, a reconsideration of an initial determination, a hearing, a review of an administrative law judge's decision, or for use where a person is authorized to represent a claimant.
SSA-521—Request for Withdrawal of Application. (For use by an individual to cancel his application.)
SSA-561—Request for Reconsideration. (For use by an individual who disagrees with an initial determination concerning (a) entitlement to benefits or any other right under title II of the Social Security Act, or (b) entitlement to hospital insurance benefits or supplementary medical insurance benefits under title XVIII of the act, or (c) entitlement to black lung benefits under title IV of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act. See § 422.140 for a discussion of the reconsideration procedure.)
SSA-1696—Claimant's Appointment of a Representative. (For use by claimants or representatives as a notice of their appointment of a representative in a claim, issue, or other matter that is pending a determination or a decision before us).
SSA-1699—Representative Registration. (For use by individuals to register with us as representatives prior to appointment as a representative on a claim or designation as a point of contact for an entity).
SSA-1763—Request for Termination of Supplementary Medical Insurance. (For use by an enrollee in requesting that his supplementary medical insurance coverage be terminated.)
SSA-1965—Request for Hearing—Part B Medicare Claim. (For use by an individual enrollee or his assignee to obtain a hearing before a hearing officer designated by the carrier concerning benefits payable under part B of title XVIII.)
HA-501—Request for Hearing. (For use by an individual or institution to obtain a hearing on a claim for title II benefits before an administrative law judge of the Social Security Administration.)

# Note:
This form is also used to request a hearing regarding entitlement to hospital insurance benefits or supplementary medical insurance benefits under title XVIII of the act. (See § 422.203 for a discussion of the hearing procedure.)
HA-501.1—Request for Hearing—Part A Health Insurance. (For use by an individual or institution to obtain a hearing before an administrative law judge of the Social Security Administration concerning the amount of hospital insurance benefits under title XVIII.)
HA-512.1—Notice by Attorney of Appointment as Representative. (For use by an attorney authorized by a claimant to act for him in a claim or related matter.)
HA-520—Request for Review of Hearing Examiner's Action. (For use by an individual or institution to obtain a review of a decision by an administrative law judge of the Social Security Administration.)
[38 FR 11452, May 8, 1973, as amended at 89 FR 67556, Aug. 21, 2024]
§ 422.520
Forms related to maintenance of earnings records.
The following forms are used by the Social Security Administration and by the public in connection with the maintenance of earnings records of wage-earners and self-employed persons:
SS-4—Application for Employer Identification Number.
SS-4A—Agricultural Employer's Application. (For use by employers of agricultural workers to request an employer identification number under the FICA.)
SS-5—Application for a Social Security Number (or Replacement of Lost Card).
SS-15—Certificate Waiving Exemption From Taxes Under the FICA. (For use by certain nonprofit organizations requesting coverage of its employees.)
SS-15a—List of Concurring Employees. (To be signed by each employee who concurs in the filing of the Certificate Waiving Exemption From Taxes Under the FICA, Form SS-15.)
SSI-21—Social Security and Your Household Employee. (For use by employers of household workers to request information from the Internal Revenue Service Center regarding filing employee tax returns.)
OA-702—Social Security Number Card.
Form 2031—Waiver Certificate To Elect Social Security Coverage for Use by Ministers, Certain Members of Religious Orders, and Christian Science Practitioners.
Form 4029—Application for Exemption from Tax on Self-Employment Income and Waiver of Benefits. (To be completed by self-employed individuals who are members of certain recognized religious sects (or division thereof) and do not wish to pay FICA taxes or participate in the programs provided under titles II and XVIII.)
Form 4361—Application for Exemption From Self-Employment Tax for Use by Ministers, Members of Religious Orders, and Christian Science Practitioners.
Form 4415—Election To Exempt From Self-Employment Coverage Fees Received by
Certain Public Officers and Employees of a State or Political Subdivision Thereof.
OAAN-5028—Evidence of Application for Social Security Number Card.
OAAN-7003—Request for Change in Social Security Records. (For use by an individual to change information given on original application for a social security number.)
OAR-7004—Request for Statement of Earnings. (For use by worker to obtain a statement of earnings recorded in his earnings record.)
OAR-7008—Request for Correction of Earnings Record. (For use by an individual who wishes to have his earnings record revised.)
SSA-7011—Statement of Employer. (For use by an employer to provide evidence of wage payments in cases of a wage discrepancy in an individual's earnings record.)
[38 FR 11452, May 8, 1973]
§ 422.525
Where applications and other forms are available.
All applications and related forms prescribed for use in the programs administered by the Social Security Administration pursuant to the provisions of titles II and XVIII of the act, and part B of title IV of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 are printed under the specifications of the Administration and distributed free of charge to the public, institutions, or organizations for the purposes described therein. All prescribed forms can be obtained upon request from any social security district office or branch office (see § 422.5). Forms appropriate for use in requesting payment for services provided under the health insurance for the aged and disabled programs can also be obtained from the intermediaries or carriers (organizations under contract with the Social Security Administration to make payment for such services) without charge. Form 2031 (Waiver Certificate to Elect Social Security Coverage for Use by Ministers, Certain Members of Religious Orders, and Christian Science Practitioners), Form 4029 (Application for Exemption From Tax on Self-Employment Income and Waiver of Benefits), Form 4361 (Application for Exemption From Self-Employment Tax for Use by Ministers, Members of Religious Orders, and Christian Science Practitioners), Form 4415 (Election to Exempt From Self-Employment Coverage Fees Received by Certain Public Officers and Employees of a State or a Political Subdivision Thereof), Form SS-4 (Application for Employer Identification Number), Form SS-4A (Agricultural Employer's Application for Identification Number), Form SS-5 (Application for a Social Security Number (or Replacement of Lost Card)), Form SS-15 (Certificate Waiving Exemption From Taxes Under the FICA), and Form SS-15a (List of Concurring Employees) can also be obtained without charge from offices of the Internal Revenue Service. For other offices where applications and certain other forms can be obtained, see subparts B and C of this part 422.
[38 FR 11452, May 8, 1973]
§ 422.527
Private printing and modification of prescribed applications, forms, and other publications.
Any person, institution, or organization wishing to reproduce, reprint, or distribute any application, form, or publication prescribed by the Administration must obtain prior approval if he or she intends to charge a fee. Requests for approval must be in writing and include the reason or need for the reproduction, reprinting, or distribution; the intended users of the application, form, or publication; the fee to be charged; any proposed modification; the proposed format; the type of machinery (e.g., printer, burster, mail handling), if any, for which the application, form, or publication is being designed; estimated printing quantity; estimated printing cost per thousand; estimated annual usage; and any other pertinent information required by the Administration. Forward all requests for prior approval to: Office of Publications Management, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235-6401.
[72 FR 73261, Dec. 27, 2007]

# Subpart G—Administrative Review Process Under the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992

# Authority:
26 U.S.C. 9701-9708.

# Source:
58 FR 52916, Oct. 13, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 422.601
Scope and purpose.
The regulations in this subpart describe how the Social Security Administration (SSA) will conduct reviews of assignments it makes under provisions of the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992 (the Coal Act). Under the Coal Act, certain retired coal miners and their eligible family members (beneficiaries) are assigned to particular coal operators (or related persons). These operators are then responsible for paying the annual health and death benefit premiums for these beneficiaries as well as the annual premiums for certain unassigned coal miners and eligible members of their families. We will notify the assigned operators of these assignments and give each operator an opportunity to request detailed information about an assignment and to request review of an assignment. We also inform the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) Combined Benefit Fund Trustees of each assignment made and the unassigned beneficiaries so they can assess appropriate annual premiums against the assigned operators. This subpart explains how assigned operators may request such additional information, how they may request review of an assignment, and how reviews will be conducted.
§ 422.602
Terms used in this subpart.
Assignment
means our selection of the coal operator or related person to be charged with the responsibility of paying the annual health and death benefit premiums of certain coal miners and their eligible family members.
Beneficiary
means either a coal industry retiree who, on July 20, 1992, was eligible to receive, and receiving, benefits as an eligible individual under the 1950 or the 1974 UMWA Benefit Plan, or an individual who was eligible to receive, and receiving, benefits on July 20, 1992 as an eligible relative of a coal industry retiree.
Evidence of a prima facie case of error
means documentary evidence, records, and written statements submitted to us by the assigned operator (or related person) that, standing alone, shows our assignment was in error. The evidence submitted must, when considered by itself without reference to other contradictory evidence that may be in our possession, be sufficient to persuade a reasonable person that the assignment was erroneous. Examples of evidence that may establish a prima facie case of error include copies of Federal, State, or local government tax records; legal documents such as business incorporation, merger, and bankruptcy papers; health and safety reports filed with Federal or State agencies that regulate mining activities; payroll and other employment business records; and information provided in trade journals and newspapers.
A related person to a signatory operator
means a person or entity which as of July 20, 1992, or, if earlier, the time immediately before the coal operator ceased to be in business, was a member of a controlled group of corporations which included the signatory operator, or was a trade or business which was under common control with a signatory operator, or had a partnership interest (other than as a limited partner) or joint venture with a signatory operator in a business within the coal industry which employed eligible beneficiaries, or is a successor in interest to a person who was a related person.
We
or
us
refers to the Social Security Administration.
You
as used in this subpart refers to the coal operator (or related person) assigned premium responsibility for a specific beneficiary under the Coal Act.
[58 FR 52916, Oct. 13, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 38456, July 18, 1997]
§ 422.603
Overview of the review process.
Our notice of assignment will inform you as the assigned operator (or related person) which beneficiaries have been assigned to you, the reason for the assignment, and the dates of employment on which the assignment was based. The notice will explain that, if you disagree with the assignment for any beneficiary listed in the notice of assignment, you may request from us detailed information as to the work history of the miner and the basis for the assignment. Such request must be filed with us within 30 days after you receive the notice of assignment, as explained in § 422.604. The notice will also explain that if you still disagree with
the assignment after you have received the detailed information, you may submit evidence that shows there is a prima facie case of error in that assignment and request review. Such request must be filed with us within 30 days after you receive the detailed information, as explained in § 422.605. Alternatively, you may request review within 30 days after you receive the notice of assignment, even if you have not first requested the detailed information. In that case, you still may request the detailed information within that 30-day period. (See § 422.606(c) for further details.)
§ 422.604
Request for detailed information.
(a)
General.
After you receive our notice of assignment listing the beneficiaries for whom you have premium responsibility, you may request detailed information as to the work histories of any of the listed miners and the basis for the assignment. Your request for detailed information must:
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Be filed with us within 30 days of receipt of that notice of assignment. Unless you submit evidence showing a later receipt of the notice, we will assume the notice was received by you within 5 days of the date appearing on the notice. We will consider the request to be filed as of the date we receive it. However, if we receive the request after the 30-day period, the postmark date on the envelope may be used as the filing date. If there is no postmark or the postmark is illegible, the filing date will be deemed to be the fifth day prior to the day we received the request; and
(3) Identify the individual miners about whom you are requesting the detailed information.
(b)
The detailed information we will provide.
We will send you detailed information as to the work history and the basis for the assignment for each miner about whom you requested such information. This information will include the name and address of each employer for whom the miner has worked since 1978 or since 1946 (whichever period is appropriate), the amount of wages paid by each employer and the period for which the wages were reported. We will send you the detailed information with a notice informing you that you have 30 days from the date you receive the information to submit to SSA evidence of a prima facie case of error (as defined in § 422.602) and request review of the assignment if you have not already requested review. The notice will also inform you that, if you are seeking evidence to make a case of prima facie error, you may include with a timely filed request for review a written request for additional time to obtain and submit such evidence to us. Under these circumstances, you will have 90 days from the date of your request to submit the evidence before we determine whether we will review the assignment.
§ 422.605
Request for review.
We will review an assignment if you request review and show that there is a prima facie case of error regarding the assignment. This review is a review on the record and will not entail a face-to-face hearing. We will review an assignment if:
(a) You are an assigned operator (or related person);
(b) Your request is in writing and states your reasons for believing the assignment is erroneous;
(c) Your request is filed with us no later than 30 days from the date you received the detailed information described in § 422.604, or no later than 30 days from the date you received the notice of assignment if you choose not to request detailed information. Unless you submit evidence showing a later receipt of the notice, we will assume you received the detailed information or the notice of assignment within 5 days of the date shown thereon. We will consider the request to be filed as of the date we receive it. However, if we receive the request after the 30-day period, the postmark date on the envelope may be used as the filing date. If there is no postmark or the postmark is illegible, the filing date will be deemed to be the fifth day prior to the day we received the request; and
(d) Your request is accompanied by evidence establishing a prima facie case of error regarding the assignment. If your request for review includes a request for additional time to submit
such evidence, we will give you an additional 90 days from the date of your request for review to submit such evidence to us.
§ 422.606
Processing the request for review.
Upon receipt of your written request for review of an assignment and where relevant, the expiration of any additional times allowed under §§ 422.605(d) and 422.606(c), we will take the following action:
(a)
Request not timely filed.
If your request is not filed within the time limits set out in § 422.605(c), we will deny your request for review on that basis and send you a notice explaining that we have taken this action;
(b)
Lack of evidence.
If your request is timely filed under § 422.605(c) but you have not provided evidence constituting a prima facie case of error, we will deny your request for review on that basis and send you a notice explaining that we have taken this action;
(c)
Request for review without requesting detailed information.
If your request is filed within 30 days after you received the notice of assignment and you have not requested detailed information, we will not process your request until at least 30 days after the date you received the notice of assignment. You may still request detailed information within that 30-day period, in which case we will not process your request for review until at least 30 days after you received the detailed information, so that you may submit additional evidence if you wish;
(d)
Reviewing the evidence.
If your request meets the filing requirements of § 422.605 and is accompanied by evidence constituting a prima facie case of error, we will review the assignment. We will review all evidence submitted with your request for review, together with the evidence used in making the assignment. An SSA employee who was not involved in the original assignment will perform the review. The review will be a review on the record and will not involve a face-to-face hearing.
(e)
Original decision correct.
If, following this review of the evidence you have submitted and the evidence in our file, we make a determination that the assignment is correct, we will send you a notice explaining the basis for our decision. We will not review the decision again, except as provided in § 422.607.
(f)
Original decision erroneous.
If, following this review of the evidence you have submitted and the evidence in our file, we make a determination that the assignment is erroneous, we will send you a notice to this effect. We will then determine who the correct operator is and assign the affected beneficiary(s) to that coal operator (or related person). If no assigned operator can be identified, the affected beneficiary(s) will be treated as “unassigned.” We will notify the UMWA Combined Benefit Fund Trustees of the review decision so that any premium liability of the initial assigned operator can be adjusted.
§ 422.607
Limited reopening of assignments.
On our own initiative, we may reopen and revise an assignment, whether or not it has been reviewed as described in this subpart, under the following conditions:
(a) The assignment reflects an error on the face of our records or the assignment was based upon fraud; and
(b) We sent to the assigned operator (or related person) notice of the assignment within 12 months of the time we decided to reopen that assignment.

# Subpart H—Use of SSA Telephone Lines

# Authority:
Secs. 205(a) and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405 and 902(a)(5)).

# Source:
63 FR 57058, Oct. 26, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 422.701
Scope and purpose.
The regulations in this subpart describe the limited circumstances under which SSA is authorized to listen-in to or record telephone conversations. The purpose of this subpart is to inform the public and SSA employees of those circumstances and the procedures that SSA will follow when conducting telephone service observation activities.
§ 422.705
When SSA employees may listen-in to or record telephone conversations.
SSA employees may listen-in to or record telephone conversations on SSA telephone lines under the following conditions:
(a)
Law enforcement/national security.
When performed for law enforcement, foreign intelligence, counterintelligence or communications security purposes when determined necessary by the Commissioner of Social Security or designee. Such determinations shall be in writing and shall be made in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and Executive Orders governing such activities. Communications security monitoring shall be conducted in accordance with procedures approved by the Attorney General. Line identification equipment may be installed on SSA telephone lines to assist Federal law enforcement officials in investigating threatening telephone calls, bomb threats and other criminal activities.
(b)
Public safety.
When performed by an SSA employee for public safety purposes and when documented by a written determination by the Commissioner of Social Security or designee citing the public safety needs. The determination shall identify the segment of the public needing protection and cite examples of the possible harm from which the public requires protection. Use of SSA telephone lines identified for reporting emergency and other public safety-related situations will be deemed as consent to public safety monitoring and recording. (See § 422.710(a)(1))
(c)
Public service monitoring.
When performed by an SSA employee after the Commissioner of Social Security or designee determines in writing that monitoring of such lines is necessary for the purposes of measuring or monitoring SSA's performance in the delivery of service to the public; or monitoring and improving the integrity, quality and utility of service provided to the public. Such monitoring will occur only on telephone lines used by employees to provide SSA-related information and services to the public. Use of such telephone lines will be deemed as consent to public service monitoring. (See § 422.710(a)(2) and (c)).
(d)
All-party consent.
When performed by an SSA employee with the prior consent of all parties for a specific instance. This includes telephone conferences, secretarial recordings and other administrative practices. The failure to identify all individuals listening to a conversation by speaker phone is not prohibited by this or any other section.
§ 422.710
Procedures SSA will follow.
SSA component(s) that plan to listen-in to or record telephone conversations under § 422.705(b) or (c) shall comply with the following procedures.
(a) Prepare a written certification of need to the Commissioner of Social Security or designee at least 30 days before the planned operational date. A certification as used in this section means a written justification signed by the Deputy Commissioner of the requesting SSA component or designee, that specifies general information on the following: the operational need for listening-in to or recording telephone conversations; the telephone lines and locations where monitoring is to be performed; the position titles (or a statement about the types) of SSA employees involved in the listening-in to or recording of telephone conversations; the general operating times and an expiration date for the monitoring. This certification of need must identify the telephone lines which will be subject to monitoring, e.g., SSA 800 number voice and text telephone lines, and include current copies of any documentation, analyses, determinations, policies and procedures supporting the application, and the name and telephone number of a contact person in the SSA component which is requesting authority to listen-in to or record telephone conversations.
(1) When the request involves listening-in to or recording telephone conversations for public safety purposes, the requesting component head or designee must identify the segment of the public needing protection and cite examples of the possible harm from which the public requires protection.
(2) When the request involves listening-in to or recording telephone conversations for public service monitoring purposes, the requesting component head or designee must provide a statement in writing why such monitoring is necessary for measuring or monitoring the performance in the delivery of SSA service to the public; or monitoring and improving the integrity, quality and utility of service provided to the public.
(b) At least every 5 years, SSA will review the need for each determination authorizing listening-in or recording activities in the agency. SSA components or authorized agents involved in conducting listening-in or recording activities must submit documentation as described in § 422.710(a) to the Commissioner of Social Security or a designee to continue or terminate telephone service observation activities.
(c) SSA will comply with the following controls, policies and procedures when listening-in or recording is associated with public service monitoring.
(1) SSA will provide a message on SSA telephone lines subject to public service monitoring that will inform callers that calls on those lines may be monitored for quality assurance purposes. SSA will also continue to include information about telephone monitoring activities in SSA brochures and/or pamphlets as notification that some incoming and outgoing SSA telephone calls are monitored to ensure SSA's clients are receiving accurate and courteous service.
(2) SSA employees authorized to listen-in to or record telephone calls are permitted to annotate personal identifying information about the calls, such as a person's name, Social Security number, address and/or telephone number. When this information is obtained from public service monitoring as defined in § 422.705(c), it will be used for programmatic or policy purposes; e.g., recontacting individuals to correct or supplement information relating to benefits, for assessment of current/proposed policies and procedures, or to correct SSA records. Privacy Act requirements must be followed if data are retrievable by personal identifying information.
(3) SSA will take appropriate corrective action, when possible, if information obtained from monitoring indicates SSA may have taken an incorrect action which could affect the payment of or eligibility to SSA benefits.
(4) Telephone instruments subject to public service monitoring will be conspicuously labeled.
(5) Consent from both parties is needed to tape record SSA calls for public service monitoring purposes.
(d) The recordings and records pertaining to the listening-in to or recording of any conversations covered by this subpart shall be used, safeguarded and destroyed in accordance with SSA records management program.

# Subpart I—Administrative Claims Collection

# Authority:
Sec. 97, Pub. L. 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749; Sec. 104, Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321; 5 U.S.C. 552; 5 U.S.C. 553; 31 U.S.C. 3711; 31 U.S.C. 3716; 31 U.S.C. 3717; 31 U.S.C. 3720A; 31 U.S.C. 3720B; 31 U.S.C. 3720C; 31 U.S.C. 3720D; 31 U.S.C. 3720E; 31 CFR parts 901-904; 31 CFR part 285; 5 U.S.C. 5514; 5 CFR part 550; 42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5).

# Source:
80 FR 61734, Oct. 14, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 422.801
Scope of this subpart.
(a) The regulations in this part are issued under the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of (DCIA) 1996 (31 U.S.C. 3701,
et seq.
) and the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR parts 901-904) issued pursuant to the DCIA by the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) and the Department of Justice (DOJ). These authorities prescribe government-wide standards for administrative collection, compromise, suspension, or termination of agency collection action, disclosure of debt information to credit reporting agencies, referral of claims to private collection contractors for resolution, and referral to the DOJ for litigation to collect debts owed the Government. The regulations under this part also are issued under the Commissioner's general rule-making authority in the Social Security Act at section 702(a)(5), 42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), the Treasury's regulations implementing the DCIA (31 CFR part
285), and related statutes and regulations governing the offset of Federal salaries (5 U.S.C. 5512, 5514; 5 CFR part 550, subpart K) and the administrative offset of tax refunds (31 U.S.C. 3720A).
(b) This subpart describes the procedures relating to the collection, compromise, and suspension of administrative debts owed to us, the Social Security Administration (SSA).
(c) Administrative debts include claims against current employees, separated employees, and non-employee debtors.
(1) Employee debts include salary overpayments; advanced sick and annual leave, advanced religious compensatory time, overpayments of health benefit premiums, leave buy back, emergency employee payments, travel, and transit subsidies.
(2) Non-employee debts include vendor overpayments, reimbursable agreements, Supplemental Security Income Medicaid determinations, and economic recovery payments.
(d) This subpart does not apply to programmatic overpayments described in subparts D and E of this part, and §§ 404.527 and § 416.590 of this title.
(e) This subpart does not apply to civil monetary penalties arising from sections 1129 and 1140 of the Social Security Act and collected pursuant to part 498 of this title.
§ 422.803
Collection activities.
(a) We will collect all administrative debts arising out of our activities or that are referred or transferred to us, the Social Security Administration, for collection actions. We will send an initial written demand for payment no later than 30 days after an appropriate official determines that a debt exists.
(b) In accordance with 31 CFR 285.12(c) and (g), we transfer legally enforceable administrative debts that are 120 calendar days or more delinquent to Treasury for debt collection services (
i.e.,
cross-servicing). This requirement does not apply to any debt that:
(1) Is in litigation or foreclosure;
(2) Will be disposed of under an approved asset sale program within one year of becoming eligible for sale;
(3) Has been referred to a private collection contractor for a period acceptable to the Secretary of the Treasury;
(4) Is at a debt collection center for a period of time acceptable to Treasury (see paragraph (c) of this section);
(5) Will be collected under internal offset procedures within three years after the debt first became delinquent; or
(6) Is exempt from this requirement based on a determination by Treasury that exemption for a certain class of debt is in the best interest of the United States.
(c) Pursuant to 31 CFR 285.12(h), we may refer debts less than 120 calendar days delinquent to Treasury or, with the consent of Treasury, to a Treasury-designated debt collection center to accomplish efficient, cost effective debt collection. Referrals to debt collection centers will be at the discretion of, and for a period acceptable to, the Secretary of the Treasury. Referrals may be for servicing, collection, compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action.
(d) We may refer delinquent administrative debts to Treasury for offset through the Treasury Offset Program (TOP). Administered by Treasury, TOP's centralized offset process permits Treasury to withhold funds payable by the United States to a person to collect and satisfy delinquent debts the person owes Federal agencies and States.
(e) We may collect an administrative debt by using Administrative Wage Garnishment.
(f) We may collect an administrative debt by using Federal Salary Offset.
§ 422.805
Demand for payment.
(a)
Written demand for payment.
(1) We will make a written demand, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, promptly to a debtor in terms that inform the debtor of the consequences of failing to cooperate with us to resolve the debt.
(2) We will send a demand letter no later than 30 days after the appropriate official determines that the debt exists. We will send the demand letter to the debtor's last known address.
(3) When necessary to protect the Government's interest, we may take appropriate action under this part, including immediate referral to DOJ for
litigation, before sending the written demand for payment.
(b)
Demand letters.
The specific content, timing, and number of demand letters will depend upon the type and amount of the debt and the debtor's response, if any, to our letters or telephone calls.
(1) The written demand for payment will include the following information:
(i) The nature and amount of the debt, including the basis for the indebtedness;
(ii) The date by which payment should be made to avoid late charges and enforced collection, which must be no later than 30 days from the date the demand letter is mailed;
(iii) Where applicable, the standards for imposing any interest, penalties, or administrative costs as specified under § 422.807;
(iv) The rights, if any, the debtor may have to:
(A) Seek review of our determination of the debt, and for purposes of salary offset or Administrative Wage Garnishment, request a hearing. To request a hearing see §§ 422.810(h) and 422.833(f)); and
(B) Enter into a reasonable repayment agreement when necessary and authorized.
(v) An explanation of how the debtor may exercise any of the rights described in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section;
(vi) The name, address, and phone number of a contact person or office to address any debt-related matters; and
(vii) Our remedies to enforce payment of the debt, which may include:
(A) Garnishing the debtor's wages through Administrative Wage Garnishment;
(B) Offsetting any Federal or State payments due the debtor, including income tax refunds, salary, certain benefit payments;
(C) Referring the debt to a private collection contractor;
(D) Reporting the debt to a credit bureau or other automated database;
(E) Referring the debt to the DOJ for litigation; and
(F) Referring the debt to the Department of the Treasury for any of the collection actions described in paragraphs (b)(1)(vii)(A) through (E) of this section.
(2) The written demand for payment should also include the following information:
(i) The debtor's right to review our records pertaining to the debt, or, if the debtor or the debtor's representative cannot personally review the records, to request and receive copies of such records;
(ii) Our willingness to discuss alternative methods of payment with the debtor;
(iii) If a Federal employee, the debtor may be subject to disciplinary action under 5 CFR part 752 or other applicable authority;
(iv) Any amounts collected and ultimately found to not be owed by the debtor will be refunded;
(v) For salary offset, up to 15 percent of the debtor's current disposable pay may be deducted every pay period until the debt is paid in full; and
(vi) Dependent upon applicable statutory authority, the debtor may be entitled to consideration for a waiver.
(c)
Evidence retention.
We will retain evidence of service indicating the date of mailing of the demand letter. The evidence of service may be retained electronically so long as the manner of retention is sufficient for evidentiary purposes.
(d)
Pursue offset.
Prior to, during, or after the completion of the demand process, if we determine to pursue, or are required to pursue offset, the procedures applicable to offset should be followed (see § 422.821). The availability of funds for debt satisfaction by offset and our determination to pursue collection by offset will release us from the necessity of further compliance with paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
(e)
Communications from debtors.
Where feasible, we will respond promptly to communications from debtors within 30 days, and will advise debtors who dispute debts to furnish available evidence to support their contentions.
(f)
Exception.
This section does not require duplication of any notice already contained in a written agreement, letter, or other document signed by, or provided to, the debtor.
§ 422.807
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section, we will charge interest, penalties, and administrative costs on delinquent debts owed to the United States. These charges will continue to accrue until the debtor pays the debt in full or otherwise resolves the debt through compromise, termination, or an approved waiver.
(b)
Interest.
We will charge interest on delinquent administrative debts owed the agency as follows:
(1) Interest will accrue from the date of delinquency or as otherwise provided by law. For debts not paid by the date specified in the written demand for payment made under § 422.805, the date of delinquency is the date of mailing of the notice. The date of delinquency for an installment payment is the due date specified in the payment agreement.
(2) Unless a different rate is prescribed by statute, contract, or a repayment agreement, the rate of interest charged will be the rate established annually by the Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. We may charge a higher rate if necessary to protect the rights of the United States, and the Commissioner has determined and documented a higher rate for delinquent debt is required to protect the Government's interests.
(3) Unless prescribed by statute or contract, the initial rate of interest charged will remain fixed for the duration of the indebtedness. A debtor who defaults on a repayment agreement may seek to enter into a new agreement. If we agree to a new agreement, we may require additional financial information and payment of interest at a new rate that reflects the Treasury rate in effect at the time the new agreement is executed or at a higher rate consistent with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Interest will not be compounded. That is, we will not charge interest on the interest, penalties, or administrative costs required by this section, except as permitted by statute or contract. If, however, the debtor defaults on a previous repayment agreement, we will add charges that accrued but were not collected under the defaulted agreement to the principal of any new repayment agreement.
(c)
Penalty.
Unless otherwise established by contract, repayment agreement, or statute, we will charge a penalty pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717(e)(2) and 31 CFR 901.9 on the amount due on a debt that is delinquent for more than 90 days. This charge will accrue from the date of delinquency.
(d)
Administrative costs.
We will assess administrative costs incurred for processing and handling delinquent debts. We will base the calculation of administrative costs on actual costs incurred or a valid estimate of the actual costs. Calculation of administrative costs will include all direct (personnel, supplies, etc.) and indirect collection costs, including the cost of providing a hearing or any other form of administrative review requested by a debtor and any costs charged by a collection agency under § 422.837. We will assess these charges monthly or per payment period throughout the period that the debt is overdue. Such costs may also be in addition to other administrative costs if collection is being made for another Federal agency or unit.
(e)
Cost of living adjustment.
When there is a legitimate reason to do so, such as when calculating interest and penalties on a debt would be extremely difficult because of the age of the debt, we may increase an administrative debt by the cost of living adjustment in lieu of charging interest and penalties under this section. The cost of living adjustment is the percentage by which the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year preceding the adjustment exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year in which the debt was determined or last adjusted. We will manually compute such increases to administrative debts.
(f)
Priority.
When a debt is paid in partial or installment payments, amounts received will be applied first to outstanding penalties, second to administrative charges, third to interest, and last to principal.
(g)
Waiver.
(1) We will waive the collection of interest and administrative costs imposed pursuant to this section on the portion of the debt that is paid within 30 days after the date on which interest began to accrue. Excepting
debt affected by fraud or other misconduct, we may extend this 30-day period on a case-by-case basis if we determine that such action is in the best interest of the Government or is otherwise warranted by equity and good conscience.
(2) We may waive interest, penalties, and administrative charges charged under this section, in whole or in part, without regard to the amount of the debt, based on:
(i) The criteria set forth at § 422.846 (b)(1) for the compromise of debts; or
(ii) A determination by the agency that collection of these charges is:
(A) Against equity and good conscience; or
(B) Not in the best interest of the United States.
(h)
Review.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, administrative review of a debt will not suspend the assessment of interest, penalties, and administrative costs. While agency review of a debt is pending, the debtor may either pay the debt or be liable for interest and related charges on the uncollected debt. When agency review results in a final determination that any amount was properly a debt and the debtor failed to pay the full amount of the disputed debt, we will collect from the debtor the amount determined to be due, and interest, penalties and administrative costs on the debt amount. We will calculate and assess interest, penalties, and administrative costs under this section starting from the date the debtor was first made aware of the debt and ending when the debt is repaid.
(2)
Exception.
Interest, penalties, and administrative cost charges will not be imposed on a debt for periods during which collection activity has been suspended under § 422.848(c)(1) pending agency review or consideration of waiver, if a statute prohibits collection of the debt during this period. This exception does not apply to interest, penalties, and administrative cost charges on debts affected by fraud or other misconduct unless a statute so requires.
(i)
Common law or other statutory authority.
We may impose and waive interest and related charges on debts not subject to 31 U.S.C. 3717 in accordance with the common law or other statutory authority.
§ 422.809
Collection in installments.
Whenever feasible, we will collect the total amount of a debt in one lump sum payment. If a debtor claims a financial inability to pay a debt in one lump sum, by funds or Administrative Offset, we may accept payment in regular installments provided the debtor establishes the financial need and no evidence indicates that fraud or similar fault affected the debt. We will request financial statements from debtors who represent that they are unable to pay in one lump sum and independently verify such representations as described in § 422.846.
(a) When we agree to accept payments in regular installments, we will obtain a legally enforceable written agreement from the debtor that specifies all the terms and conditions of the agreement and includes a provision accelerating the debt in the event of a default.
(b) The size and frequency of the payments will reasonably relate to the size of the debt and the debtor's ability to pay. Whenever feasible, the installment agreement will provide for full payment of the debt, including interest and charges, in three years or less.
(c) When appropriate, the agreement will include a provision identifying security obtained from the debtor for the deferred payments, such as a surety bond or confession of judgment supporting a lien on any property of the debtor.
(d) An approved installment agreement does not prevent the use of Administrative Wage Garnishment or other collection tools in this subpart.
§ 422.810
Salary offset for current employees.
(a)
Purpose.
This part prescribes the Social Security Administration's (SSA) standards and procedures for the collection of debts owed by current SSA employees to SSA through involuntary salary offset.
(b)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 5514; 5 CFR part 550.
(c)
Scope.
(1) This part applies to internal collections of debt by Administrative Offset from the current pay accounts of SSA employees without his or her consent. The part does not apply to current SSA employees indebted to another Federal agency or employees who separate from SSA.
(2) The procedures contained in this part do not apply to any case where an employee consents to collection through deduction(s) from the employee's pay account, or to debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code or the tariff laws of the United States, or where another statute explicitly provides for or prohibits collection of a debt by salary offset (e.g., travel advances in 5 U.S.C. 5705 and employee training expenses in 5 U.S.C. 4108).
(3) This part does not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver of an erroneous payment under 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716, or in any way questioning the amount or validity of a debt. Similarly, this part does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of the collection of a debt under any other applicable statutory authority.
(4) Provided a debt is not affected by fraud and does not exceed $100,000, nothing in this part precludes the compromise of the debt or the suspension or termination of collection actions in accordance with §§ 422.846 and 422.848 of this title.
(d)
Definitions.
Administrative Offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee.
Agency
means an executive department or agency, a military department, the United States Postal Service, the Postal Rate Commission, the United States Senate, the United States House of Representatives, a court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the judicial or legislative branches of the Government, or a Government Corporation.
Creditor agency
means the agency to which the debt is owed or SSA, including a debt collection center when acting on behalf of a creditor agency in matters pertaining to the collection of a debt.
Day
means calendar day. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, in which case the next business day will be considered the last day of the period.
Debt
means an amount of funds or other property determined by an appropriate official of the Federal Government to be owed to the United States from any person, organization, or entity or any other debt that meets the definition of “claim” or “debt” under 31 U.S.C. 3701(b), excluding program overpayments made under title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act.
Debt collection center
means the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) or other Government agency or division designated by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to collect debts on behalf of creditor agencies in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g).
Debtor
means an employee currently employed by SSA who owes a delinquent non-tax debt to the United States.
Delinquent debt
means a debt that the debtor does not pay or otherwise resolve by the date specified in the initial demand for payment, or in an applicable written repayment agreement or other instrument, including a post-delinquency repayment agreement.
Disposable pay
means that part of the debtor's current basic, special, incentive, retired, and retainer pay, or other authorized pay remaining after deduction of amounts we are required by law to withhold. For purposes of calculating disposable pay, legally required deductions that must be applied first include: Tax levies pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code (title 26, United States Code); properly withheld taxes; Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA); Medicare; health, dental, vision, and life insurance premiums; and Thrift Savings Plan and retirement contributions. Amounts deducted under garnishment orders, including child support garnishment orders, are not legally permissible deductions when calculating disposable pay as specified in 5 CFR 550.1103.
Employee
means any individual currently employed by SSA, as defined in this section, including seasonal and
temporary employees and current members of the Armed Forces or a Reserve of the Armed Forces (Reserves).
Evidence of service
means information retained by the agency indicating the nature of the document to which it pertains, the date of mailing the document, and the address and name of the debtor to whom it is being sent. A copy of the dated and signed notice provided to the debtor pursuant to this part may be considered evidence of service for purposes of this part. We may retain evidence of service electronically so long as the manner of retention is sufficient for evidentiary purposes.
Hearing
means a review of the documentary evidence to confirm the existence or amount of a debt or the terms of a repayment schedule. If we determine that the issues in dispute cannot be resolved by such a review, such as when the validity of the claim turns on the issue of credibility or veracity, we may provide an oral hearing.
Hearing official
means an administrative law judge or appropriate alternate.
Paying agency
means the agency employing the employee and authorizing the payment of his or her current pay.
Salary offset
means an Administrative Offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 owed by a current SSA employee through deductions at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of the current SSA employee without his or her consent.
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt owed by an employee to the agency or another agency as required or permitted by 5 U.S.C. 5584, 8346(b), 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, or any other law.
(e)
General rule.
(1) Whenever an employee owes us a delinquent debt, we may, subject to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, involuntarily offset the amount of the debt from the employee's disposable pay.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, prior to initiating collection through salary offset under this part, we will first provide the employee with the following:
(i) A notice as described in paragraph (f) of this section; and
(ii) An opportunity to petition for a hearing, and, if a hearing is provided, to receive a written decision from the hearing official within 60 days on the following issues:
(A) The determination concerning the existence or amount of the debt; and
(B) The repayment schedule, unless it was established by written agreement between the employee and us.
(3) The provisions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section do not apply to:
(i) Any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a federal benefits program requiring periodic deduction from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less;
(ii) A routine intra-agency adjustment of pay that is made to correct an overpayment of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within four pay periods preceding the adjustment and, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided a notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and point of contact for contesting such adjustment; or
(iii) Any adjustment to collect a debt amount in accordance with the amount stated in 5 U.S.C. 5514 as amended by the DCIA, if, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided a notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment.
(f)
Notice requirements before offset.
(1) At least 30 days before the initiation of salary offset under this part, we will send a notice to the employee's last known address, informing the debtor of the following:
(i) We have reviewed the records relating to the debt and have determined that a debt is owed, the amount of the debt, and the facts giving rise to the debt;
(ii) Our intention to collect the debt by means of deduction from the employee's current disposable pay until the debt and all accumulated interest, penalties, and administrative costs are paid in full;
(iii) The amount, stated either as a fixed dollar amount or as a percentage of pay not to exceed 15 percent of disposable pay, the frequency, the commencement date, and the duration of the intended deductions;
(iv) An explanation of our policies concerning the assessment of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, stating that such assessments must be made unless waived in accordance with 31 CFR 901.9 and § 422.807 of this part;
(v) The employee's right to review and copy all of our records pertaining to the debt or, if the employee or the employee's representative cannot personally review the records, to request and receive copies of such records;
(vi) If not previously provided, the opportunity to establish a schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt through offset or to enter into an agreement to establish a schedule for repayment of the debt in lieu of offset provided the agreement is in writing, signed by both the employee and us, and documented in our files;
(vii) The right to a hearing conducted by an impartial hearing official with respect to the existence and amount of the debt, or the repayment schedule, so long as a petition is filed by the employee as prescribed in paragraph (h) of this section;
(viii) Time limits and other procedures or conditions for reviewing our records pertaining to the debt, establishing an alternative repayment agreement, and requesting a hearing;
(ix) The name, address, and telephone number of the person or office who may be contacted concerning the procedures for reviewing our records, establishing an alternative repayment agreement, and requesting a hearing;
(x) The name and address of the office to send the petition for a hearing;
(xi) A timely and properly filed petition for a hearing will suspend the commencement of the collection proceeding;
(xii) We will initiate action to effect salary offset not less than 30 days from the date of mailing the notice, unless the employee properly files a timely petition for a hearing,
(xiii) A final decision on a hearing, if one is requested, will be issued at the earliest practical date, but not later than 60 days after the filing of the petition requesting the hearing unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceeding;
(xiv) Notice that an employee who knowingly makes false or frivolous statements or submits false or frivolous representations or evidence may be subject to disciplinary procedures under chapter 75 of title 5, United States Code, Part 752 of title 5, CFR, or any other applicable statutes or regulations;
(xv) Any other rights and remedies available to the employee under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made;
(xvi) Unless there are applicable contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, amounts paid on or deducted for the debt that are later waived or found not owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee; and
(xvii) Proceedings with respect to such debt are governed by 5 U.S.C. 5514.
(2) We will retain evidence of service indicating the date of mailing of the notice.
(g)
Review of records relating to the debt.
(1) To review or copy our records relating to the debt, the employee must send a written request stating his or her intention. We must receive the written request within 15 days from the employee's receipt of the notice.
(2) In response to a timely request as described in paragraph (1) of this section, we will notify the employee of the location and time when the employee may review and copy such records. If the employee or employee's representative is unable to review personally such records as the result of geographical or other constraints, we will arrange to send copies of such records to the employee.
(h)
Hearings
—(1)
Petitions for hearing.
(i) To request a hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt or the offset schedule established by us, the employee must send a written petition to the office we identified in the notice (see paragraph (f)(1)(x) of this section) within 15 days of receipt of the notice.
(ii) The petition must:
(A) Be signed by the employee;
(B) Fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence, and witnesses, if any, that the employee believes support his or her position; and
(C) Specify whether an oral or paper hearing is requested. If an oral hearing is requested, the request should explain why the matter cannot be resolved by a paper hearing, which is a determination of the request for reconsideration based upon a review of the written record.
(iii) The timely filing of a petition for hearing will suspend any further collection proceedings.
(2)
Failure to timely request a hearing.
(i) If the petition for hearing is filed after the 15-day period provided in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, we may grant the request if the employee can establish either that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond the employee's control or that the employee failed to receive actual notice of the filing deadline.
(ii) An employee waives the right to a hearing and will have his or her disposable pay offset in accordance with the offset schedule established by us, if the employee:
(A) Fails to file a timely request for a hearing unless such failure is excused; or
(B) Fails to appear at an oral hearing of which the employee was notified unless the hearing official determines that the failure to appear was due to circumstances beyond the employee's control.
(3)
Form of hearings
—(i)
General.
After the employee requests a hearing, the hearing official must notify the employee of the type of hearing that will occur. If an oral hearing will occur, the notice will state the date, time, and location of the hearing. If a paper hearing will occur, the employee will be notified and required to submit evidence and arguments in writing to the hearing official by the date specified in the notice, after which the record will be closed.
(ii)
Oral hearing.
An employee who requests an oral hearing will be provided an oral hearing if the hearing official determines that the matter cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone because an issue of credibility or veracity is involved. Where an oral hearing is appropriate, the hearing is not an adversarial adjudication and need not take the form of an evidentiary hearing (e.g., the formal rules of evidence need not apply). Oral hearings may take the form of, but are not limited to:
(A) Informal conferences with the hearing official in which the employee and agency representative will be given full opportunities to present evidence, witnesses, and arguments;
(B) Informal meetings in which the hearing official interviews the employee by phone or videoconferencing; or
(C) Formal written submissions with an opportunity for oral presentations.
(iii)
Paper hearing.
If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, the hearing official will make the determination based upon a review of the available written record.
(iv)
Record.
The hearing official will maintain a summary record of any hearing conducted under this part. Witnesses who testify in oral hearings will do so under oath or affirmation.
(4)
Written decision
—(i)
Date of decision.
The hearing officer will issue a written opinion stating his or her decision. This opinion is based upon documentary evidence and information developed at the hearing, as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than 60 days after the date on which the hearing petition was received by the creditor agency. This is dependent upon whether the employee requested a delay in the proceedings and the hearing official grants it, in which case the 60-day decision period will be extended by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed. The recipient of an employee's request for a hearing must forward the request expeditiously to the hearing official to avoid jeopardizing the hearing official's ability to issue a decision within this 60-day period.
(ii)
Content of decision.
The written decision will include:
(A) A statement of the facts presented to support the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;
(B) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions, including a determination whether the employee's
petition for hearing was baseless and resulted from an intent to delay the creditor agency's collection activity; and
(C) The terms of any repayment schedule, if applicable.
(5)
Failure to appear.
In the absence of good cause shown, an employee who fails to appear at a hearing will be deemed, for the purpose of this part, to admit the existence and amount of the debt as described in the notice. If the representative of the creditor agency fails to appear, the hearing official will proceed with the hearing as scheduled and make a determination based upon oral testimony presented and the documentary evidence submitted by both parties. With the agreement of both parties, the hearing official will schedule a new hearing date, and both parties will be given notice of the time and place of the new hearing.
(i)
Obtaining the services of a hearing official.
The office designated in paragraph (f)(1)(x) of this section will schedule a hearing, if one is requested by an employee, before a hearing official.
(1) When we cannot provide a prompt and appropriate hearing before an administrative law judge or a hearing official furnished pursuant to another lawful arrangement, the office designated in paragraph (f)(1)(x) of this section may contact an agent of any agency designated in 5 CFR part 581, appendix A to arrange for a hearing official.
(2)(i) When another agency is the creditor agency, not SSA, it is the responsibility of that agency to arrange for a hearing if one is requested. We will provide a hearing official upon the request of a creditor agency when the debtor is employed by us and the creditor agency cannot provide a prompt and appropriate hearing before a hearing official furnished pursuant to another lawful arrangement.
(ii) Services rendered to a creditor agency under paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section will be provided on a fully reimbursable basis pursuant to the Economy Act of 1932, as amended by 31 U.S.C. 1535.
(3) The determination of a hearing official designated under this section is considered an official certification regarding the existence and amount of the debt for purposes of executing salary offset under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and this part. A creditor agency may make a certification to the Secretary of the Treasury under 5 CFR 550.1108 or a paying agency under 5 CFR 550.1109 regarding the existence and amount of the debt based on the certification of a hearing official. If a hearing official determines that a debt may not be collected via salary offset, but we find that the debt is still valid, we may still seek collection of the debt through other means, such as offset of other Federal payments or litigation.
(j)
Voluntary repayment agreement in lieu of salary offset.
(1)(i) In response to the notice, the employee may propose to establish an alternative schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt by submitting a written request. An employee who wishes to repay the debt without salary offset will also submit a proposed written repayment agreement. The proposal will admit the existence of the debt, and the agreement must be in such form that it is legally enforceable. The agreement must:
(A) Be in writing;
(B) Be signed by both the employee and the agency;
(C) Specify all the terms of the arrangement for payment; and
(D) Contain a provision accelerating the debt in the event of default by the employee, but such an increase may not result in a deduction that exceeds 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay unless the employee has agreed in writing to a deduction of a greater amount.
(ii) Any proposal under paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section must be received within 30 days of the date of the notice.
(2) In response to a timely request as described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, we will notify the employee whether the proposed repayment schedule is acceptable. It is within our discretion to accept a proposed alternative repayment schedule and to set the necessary terms of a voluntary repayment agreement.
(3) No voluntary repayment agreement will be binding on us unless it is in writing and signed by the employee and us.
(k)
Special review.
(1) At any time, an employee subject to salary offset or a voluntary repayment agreement may request a special review by the agency of the amount of the salary offset or voluntary repayment installments based on materially changed circumstances, such as, but not limited to, catastrophic illness, divorce, death, or disability.
(2)(i) In determining whether an offset would prevent the employee from meeting essential subsistence expenses (e.g., food, housing, clothing, transportation, and medical care), the employee must submit a detailed statement and supporting documents for the employee, his or her spouse, and dependents indicating:
(A) Income from all sources;
(B) Assets and liabilities;
(C) Number of dependents;
(D) Food, housing, clothing, transportation, and medical expenses; and
(E) Exceptional and unusual expenses, if any.
(ii) When requesting a special review under this section, the employee must file an alternative proposed offset or payment schedule and a statement, with supporting documents as described in paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section, stating why the current salary offset or payments result in an extreme financial hardship to the employee.
(3)(i) We will evaluate the statement and supporting documents and determine whether the original offset or repayment schedule impose extreme financial hardship on the employee.
(ii) Within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the request and supporting documents, we will notify the employee in writing of such determination, including, if appropriate, a revised offset or repayment schedule.
(4) If the special review results in a revised offset or repayment schedule, we will do a new certification based on the result of the review.
(l)
Procedures for salary offset
—(1)
Method and source of deductions.
Unless the employee and the agency have agreed to an alternative repayment arrangement under paragraph (j) of this section, the agency will collect a debt in a lump sum or by installment deductions at officially established pay intervals from an employee's current pay account.
(2)
Limitation on amount of deduction.
Ordinarily, the size of installment deductions must bear a reasonable relationship to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. However, the amount deducted for any pay period must not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount, as outlined in paragraph (j) of this section.
(3)
Duration of deductions
—(i)
Lump sum.
If the amount of the debt is equal to or less than 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay for an officially established pay interval, the agency will collect the debt in one lump-sum deduction including lump-sum annual leave amounts.
(ii) If the employee is deemed financially unable to pay in one lump sum or the amount of the debt exceeds 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay for an officially established pay interval, the agency will collect the debt in installments. Except as provided in paragraphs (k)(5) and (6) of this section, installment deductions must be made over a period no longer than the anticipated period of active duty or employment.
(4)
When deductions may begin.
(i) Deductions will begin on the date stated in the notice, unless the agency and individual have agreed to an alternative repayment agreement under paragraph (j) of this section or the employee has filed a timely request for a hearing.
(ii) If the employee files a timely petition for hearing as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, the agency will begin deductions after the hearing official has provided the employee with a hearing and a final written decision has been rendered in favor of the agency.
(5)
Liquidation from final check.
If an employee retires, resigns, or the period of employment ends before collection of the debt is completed, the agency will offset the remainder under 31 U.S.C. 3716 from subsequent agency payments of any nature (e.g., final salary payment or lump-sum leave) due the employee as of the date of separation.
(6)
Recovery from other payments due a separated employee.
If the debt cannot be satisfied by offset from any final payment due the employee on the date of separation, we will liquidate the debt, where appropriate, by Administrative Offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 from later payments of any kind due the former employee (e.g., lump-sum leave payment).
(m)
Exception to internal salary offset.
SSA may follow Administrative Offset notification requirements when attempting the collection of delinquent travel advances and training expenses, not those associated with Federal employee salary offset. Once the notification procedures have been followed, SSA has the authority to withhold all or part of an employee's salary, retirement benefits, or other amount due the employee including lump-sum payments to recover the amounts owed. No statutory or regulatory limits exist on the amount that can be withheld or offset.
(n)
Salary offset when we are the paying agency but not the creditor agency.
When we are the paying agency and another agency is the creditor agency, the creditor agency must provide written certification to Treasury that the employee owes the debt, the amount and basis of the debt, the date on which payment(s) is due, the date the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, and that the Office of Personnel Management has approved the creditor agency's regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5514. We are not required or authorized to review the merits of the determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.
(o)
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
Debts owed will be assessed interest, penalties, and administrative costs in accordance with § 422.807.
(p)
Non-waiver of rights.
An employee's involuntary payment of all or any portion of a debt collected under this part will not be construed as a waiver of any rights the employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provision of law or contract unless there are statutory or contractual provisions to the contrary.
(q)
Refunds.
(1) We will promptly refund any amounts paid or deducted under this part when:
(i) A debt is waived or otherwise found not owed to us; or
(ii) We are directed by administrative or judicial order to refund amount deducted from the employee's current pay.
(2) Unless required or permitted by law or contract, refunds will not bear interest.
(r)
Additional administrative collection action.
Nothing contained in this part is intended to preclude the use of any other appropriate administrative remedy.
§ 422.811
Discretionary referral for cross-servicing.
We may refer legally enforceable non-tax administrative debts that are less than 120 calendar days delinquent to the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) or to Treasury-designated “debt collection centers” in accordance with 31 CFR 285.12 to accomplish efficient, cost effective debt collection.
§ 422.813
Mandatory referral for cross-servicing.
(a) Pursuant to the cross-servicing process, creditor agencies must transfer any eligible debt more than 120 calendar days delinquent to the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) for debt collection services. As one such agency, pursuant to 31 CFR 285.12, we are required to transfer to Treasury any legally enforceable nontax debt in excess of $25. We may transfer to Treasury any combination of legally enforceable nontax debts less than $25 that exceeds $25 (in the case of a debtor whose taxpayer identification number (TIN) is unknown, the applicable threshold is $100) that has or have been delinquent for a period of 120 calendar days. Treasury will take appropriate action on behalf of the creditor agency to collect, compromise, suspend, or terminate collection of the debt, including use of debt collection centers and private collection contractors to collect the debt or terminate collection action.
(b) Debts not eligible for mandatory referral of paragraph (a) of this section include:
(1) Debts owed by a Federal agency;
(2) Debts owed by a deceased debtor;
(3) Debts not legally enforceable: A debt is considered legally enforceable for purposes of referral to the Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service if there has been a final agency determination that the debt is due and there are no legal bars to collection;
(4) Debts that are the subject of an administrative appeal until the appeal is concluded and the amount of the debt is fixed;
(5) Debts owed by a debtor who has filed for bankruptcy protection or the debt has been discharged in bankruptcy proceeding; or
(6) Debts that are less than $25 (including interest, penalties, and administrative costs).
(c) A debt is considered delinquent for purposes of this section if it is 120 calendar days past due and is legally enforceable. A debt is past due if it has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written demand for payment or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency payment agreement) unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made. A debt is legally enforceable if there has been a final agency determination that the debt, in the amount stated, is due and there are no legal bars to collection action. Where, for example, a debt is the subject of a pending administrative review process required by statute or regulation and collection action during the review process is prohibited, the debt is not considered legally enforceable for purposes of mandatory transfer to the Treasury and is not to be transferred even if the debt is more than 120 calendar days past due. When a final agency determination is made after an administrative appeal or review process, the creditor agency must transfer such debt to Treasury, if more than 120 calendar days delinquent, within 30 days after the date of the final decision.
(d) We may also refer debts owed by a foreign country upon consultation with our Office of the General Counsel.
§ 422.815
Referral of administrative debts to the Department of the Treasury.
(a) Agencies are required by law to transfer delinquent, nontax, and legally enforceable debts to Department of the Treasury (Treasury) for collection through cross-servicing and through centralized Administrative Offset. Additionally, we may transfer debts to the Treasury for collection through Administrative Wage Garnishment. Agencies need not make duplicate referrals to Treasury for all these purposes; we may refer a debt to Treasury for purposes of simultaneous collection by cross-servicing, centralized Administrative Offset, and Administrative Wage Garnishment where applicable. However, in some instances a debt exempt from cross-servicing collection may be subject to collection by centralized Administrative Offset, so simultaneous referrals are not always appropriate.
(b) When we refer or transfer administrative debts to Treasury, or Treasury-designated debt collection centers under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), Treasury will service, collect, or compromise the debts, or Treasury will suspend or terminate the collection action, in accordance with the statutory requirements and authorities applicable to the collection of such debts.
(c) Debts that are not required for referral include:
(1) Debts delinquent for 120 calendar days or less;
(2) Debts less than $100 and we are unable to obtain the debtor's taxpayer identification number;
(3) Debts in litigation or foreclosure as defined in 31 CFR 285.12(d)(2);
(4) Debts that have been referred to a private collection contractor for a period acceptable to Treasury;
(5) Debts that will be disposed of under an approved asset sale program as defined in 31 CFR 285.12(d)(3)(i);
(6) Debts that will be collected under internal offset procedures within three years after the debt first became delinquent;
(7) Debts at a debt collection center for a period of time acceptable to Treasury; or
(8) Debts exempt from this requirement based on a determination by the
Secretary of the Treasury that exemption for a certain class of debt is in the best interest of the United States. Federal agencies may request that the Secretary of the Treasury exempt specific classes of debts. Any such request by an agency must be sent to the Fiscal Assistant Secretary of the Treasury by the agency's Chief Financial Officer.
§ 422.817
Required certification.
Before referring delinquent administrative debts to the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) for collection, we will certify, in writing, that:
(a) The debts we are transferring are valid and legally enforceable;
(b) There are no legal bars to collection; and
(c) We have complied with all prerequisites to a particular collection action under the laws, regulations, or policies applicable to us, unless we agree that Treasury will do so on our behalf.
§ 422.819
Fees.
Federal agencies operating Department of the Treasury-designated debt collection centers are authorized to charge a fee for services rendered regarding referred or transferred debts. The fee may be paid out of amounts collected and may be added to the debt as an administrative cost.
§ 422.821
Administrative offset.
(a)
Scope.
(1) Administrative Offset is the withholding of funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt. We will use Administrative Offset to recover administrative debts.
(2) This section does not apply to:
(i) Debts arising under the Social Security Act;
(ii) Payments made under the Social Security Act, except as provided for in 31 U.S.C. 3716(c), and 31 CFR 285.4;
(iii) Debts arising under, or payments made under the Internal Revenue Code or the tariff laws of the United States;
(iv) Offsets against Federal salaries to the extent these standards are inconsistent with regulations published to implement such offsets under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716 (see 5 CFR part 550, subpart K; 31 CFR 285.7; §§ 422.810 and 422.829 of this part);
(v) Offsets under 31 U.S.C. 3728 against a judgment obtained by a debtor against the United States;
(vi) Offsets or recoupments under common law, State law, or Federal statutes specifically prohibiting offsets or recoupments for particular types of debts; or
(vii) Offsets in the course of judicial proceedings, including bankruptcy.
(3) Unless otherwise provided for by contract or law, debts or payments that are not subject to Administrative Offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 may be collected by Administrative Offset under the common law or other applicable statutory authority.
(4) In bankruptcy cases, the agency may seek legal advice from the Office of the General Counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly 11 U.S.C. 106, 362, and 553, on pending or contemplated collections by offset.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 422.822
Notification of intent to collect by administrative offset.
(a) Prior to initiation of collection by Administrative Offset, we will:
(1) Send the debtor a notice by mail or hand-delivery. The notice will include the type and amount of the debt, the intention of the agency using internal offset or non-centralized Administrative Offset to collect the debt 30 days after the date of the notice, and the name of the Federal agency from which the creditor agency wishes to collect in the case of a non-centralized Administrative Offset. Additionally, if the debt is not satisfied by offset within the Social Security Administration or by agreement with another Federal agency, the notice will include the intent to refer the debt to the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) for collection through centralized Administrative Offset, including offset of tax refunds 60 days after the date of the notice as well as an explanation of the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716.
(2) Give the debtor the opportunity:
(i) To make a voluntary payment;
(ii) To review and copy agency records related to the debt;
(iii) For a review within the agency of the determination of indebtedness;
(iv) To make a written agreement to repay the debt.
(b) The procedures set forth in paragraph (a) of this section are not required when:
(1) The offset is in the nature of a recoupment;
(2) The debt arises under a contract subject to the Contracts Disputes Act or Federal Acquisition Regulations;
(3) In the case of a non-centralized Administrative Offset (see § 422.824), the agency first learns of the existence of the amount owed by the debtor when there is insufficient time before payment would be made to the debtor/payee to allow for prior notice and an opportunity for review. When prior notice and an opportunity for review are omitted, we will give the debtor such notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and will promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the agency; or
(4) The agency previously has given a debtor any of the notice and review opportunities required under this part, with respect to a particular debt. Subsequently, any interest accrued or any installments coming due after we initiate an offset would not require a new notice and opportunity to review.
(c) The notice will be included as part of a demand letter issued under § 422.805 to advise the debtor of all debt collection possibilities that the agency will seek to employ.
§ 422.823
Debtor rights to review or copy records, submit repayment proposals, or request administrative review.
(a) A debtor who intends to review or copy our records with respect to the debt must notify us in writing within 30 days of the date of the notice as described in section § 422.822. In response, we will notify the debtor of the location, time, and any other conditions for reviewing and copying. The debtor may be liable for reasonable copying expenses.
(b) In response to the notice as described in section § 422.822, the debtor may propose a written agreement to repay the debt as an alternative to Administrative Offset. Any debtor who wishes to do this must submit a written proposal for repayment of the debt, which we must receive within 30 days of the date of the notice as described in section § 422.822 or 15 days after the date of a decision adverse to the debtor. In response, we will notify the debtor whether we need additional information, for example, financial status information. We will obtain any necessary authorization required to approve the agreement, and we will issue a written determination whether the proposed agreement is acceptable. In exercising our discretion, we will balance the Government's interest in collecting the debt against fairness to the debtor.
(c) A debtor must request an administrative review of the debt within 30 days of the date of the notice as described in section § 422.822 for purposes of a proposed collection by non-centralized Administrative Offset pursuant to § 422.824. A debtor must request an administrative review of the debt within 60 days of the date of the notice as described in section § 422.822 for purposes of a proposed collection by centralized Administrative Offset for offset against other Federal payments that would include tax refunds pursuant to § 422.825.
(1) For purposes of this section, whenever we are required to provide a debtor a review within the agency, we will give the debtor a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing, either by telephone or in person, when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and we determine that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence.
(2) Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although we will carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing.
(3) An oral hearing is not required with respect to debts where determinations of indebtedness rarely involve issues of credibility or veracity, and we have determined that a review of the written record is adequate to correct prior mistakes.
(4) In those cases when an oral hearing is not required by this section, we will provide the debtor a paper hearing, that is, a determination of the request
for reconsideration based upon a review of the written record.
§ 422.824
Non-centralized administrative offset.
(a) Unless otherwise prohibited by law, when centralized Administrative Offset under § 422.825 is not available or appropriate, we may collect a past due, legally enforceable, nontax delinquent debt by conducting non-centralized Administrative Offset internally or in cooperation with the agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor. Generally, non-centralized Administrative Offsets are ad hoc case-by-case offsets that an agency conducts at its own discretion, internally or in cooperation with a second agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor. In these cases, we may make a request directly to a payment-authorizing agency to offset a payment due a debtor to collect a delinquent debt. We adopt the procedures in 31 CFR 901.3(c) so that we may request the Department of the Treasury or any other payment-authorizing agency to conduct a non-centralized Administrative Offset.
(b) Administrative Offset may be initiated only after:
(1) The debtor has been sent a notice of the type and amount of the debt, the intention to initiate Administrative Offset to collect the debt, and an explanation of the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716; and
(2) The debtor has been given:
(i) The opportunity to review and copy records related to the debt;
(ii) The opportunity for a review within the department of the determination of indebtedness; and
(iii) The opportunity to make a written agreement to repay the debt.
(c) The agency may omit the requirements under paragraph (b) of this section when:
(1) Offset is in the nature of a recoupment (
i.e.,
the debt and the payment to be offset arise out of the same transaction or occurrence);
(2) The debt arises under a contract as set forth in
Cecile Industries, Inc.
v.
Cheney,
995 F.2d 1052 (Fed. Cir. 1993) (notice and other procedural protections set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) do not supplant or restrict established procedures for contractual offsets covered by the Contracts Disputes Act); or
(3) In the case of non-centralized Administrative Offset conducted under paragraph (a) of this section, the agency first learns of the existence of the amount owed by the debtor when there is insufficient time before payment would be made to the debtor to allow for prior notice and an opportunity for review. When prior notice and an opportunity for review are omitted, we will give the debtor such notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practical and will promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the Government.
(d) When the debtor previously has been given any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt, such as under § 422.805, we need not duplicate such notice and review opportunities before Administrative Offset may be initiated.
(e) Before requesting that a payment-authorizing agency conduct non-centralized Administrative Offset, we will:
(1) Provide the debtor with due process as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(2) Provide the payment-authorizing agency written certification that the debtor owes the past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt in the amount stated and that we have fully complied with this section.
(f) When a creditor agency requests that we, as the payment authorizing agency, conduct non-centralized Administrative Offset, we will comply with the request, unless the offset would not be in the best interest of the United States with respect to the program of the agency, or would otherwise be contrary to law. Appropriate use should be made of the cooperative efforts of other agencies in effecting collection by Administrative Offset, including salary offset.
(g) When collecting multiple debts by non-centralized Administrative Offset, we will apply the recovered amounts to those debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, particularly the applicable statute of limitations.
§ 422.825
Centralized administrative offset.
(a)
Mandatory referral.
After we provide and meet the notice and review opportunity requirements of § 422.822, we will refer debts that are over 120 calendar days delinquent to the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) for collection through centralized Administrative Offset 61 days after the date of the notice provided in accordance with § 422.822. If the debtor seeks review, referral of the debt must occur within 30 days of the final decision upholding our decision to offset the debt if the debt is more than 120 calendar days delinquent.
(b)
Discretionary referral.
After we provide and meet the notice and review opportunity requirements of § 422.822, and the debtor does not request administrative review or the result of the review is unsuccessful for the debtor, we may refer a debt that is less than 120 calendar days delinquent.
(c)
Procedures for referral.
We will refer debts to Treasury for collection in accordance with Treasury procedures set forth in 31 CFR 285.5 and 31 CFR 901.3(b).
§ 422.827
Offset against tax refunds.
We will take action to effect Administrative Offset against tax refunds due to debtors in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3720A through referral for centralized Administrative Offset under § 422.825.
§ 422.829
Federal salary offset.
(a)
Referral to the Department of the Treasury for offset.
(1) The Department of the Treasury (Treasury) will recover overdue administrative debts by offsetting Federal payments due the debtor through the Treasury Offset Program (TOP). TOP is a government-wide delinquent debt matching and payment offset process operated by Treasury, whereby debts owed to the Federal Government are collected by offsetting them against Federal payments owed the debtor. Federal payments owed the debtor include current “disposable pay,” defined in 5 CFR 550.1103, owed by the Federal Government to a debtor who is an employee of the Federal Government. Deducting from such disposable pay to collect an overdue debt owed by the employee is called “Federal Salary Offset” in this subpart.
(2) Treasury will use Federal Salary Offset to collect overdue administrative debts from Federal employees, including employees of the Social Security Administration. A Federal employee's involuntary payment of all or part of a debt collected by Federal Salary Offset does not amount to a waiver of any rights that the employee may have under any statute or contract, unless a statute or contract provides for waiver of such rights.
(b)
Debts we will refer.
We will refer all qualifying administrative debts that meet or exceed the threshold amounts used by Treasury for collection from Federal payments, including Federal salaries.
(c)
Notice to debtor.
Before we refer any administrative debt for collection by Administrative Offset, we will send the debtor a notice that explains all of the following:
(1) The nature and amount of the debt;
(2) That we have determined that payment of the debt is overdue; and
(3) That we will refer the debt for Administrative Offset (except as provided in paragraph (c)(9) of this section) at the expiration of not less than 60 calendar days after the date of the notice unless, within that 60-day period:
(i) The debtor pays the full amount of the debt, or
(ii) The debtor takes any of the actions described in paragraphs (c)(6) or (c)(7) of this section.
(4) The frequency and amount of any Federal Salary Offset deduction (the payment schedule) expressed as a fixed dollar amount or percentage of disposable pay.
(5) The debtor may review or copy our records relating to the debt. If the debtor or his or her representative cannot personally review the records, the debtor may request and receive a copy of such records.
(6) The debtor may request a review of the debt by giving us evidence showing that the debtor does not owe all or part of the amount of the debt or that we do not have the right to collect it. The debtor may also request review of any payment schedule for Federal Salary Offset stated in the notice. If the
debtor is an employee of the Federal Government and Federal Salary Offset is proposed, an official designated in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(2) will conduct the review.
(7) The debtor may request to repay the debt voluntarily through an installment payment plan.
(8) If the debtor knowingly furnishes any false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence, the debtor may be subject to appropriate disciplinary procedures under applicable statutes or regulations when the debtor is a Federal employee.
(9) We will refer the debt for Federal Salary Offset at the expiration of not less than 60 calendar days after the date of the notice unless, within that 60 day period, the debtor takes any actions described in paragraphs (c)(3)(i), (c)(6), or (c)(7) of this section.
(d)
Federal Salary Offset: amount, frequency and duration of deductions.
(1) Treasury may collect the overdue debt from an employee of the Federal Government through the deduction of an amount not to exceed 15 percent of the debtor's current disposable pay each payday.
(2) Federal Salary Offset will begin not less than 60 calendar days after the date of the notice to the debtor described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) Once begun, Federal Salary Offset will continue until Treasury recovers the full amount of the debt, the debt is otherwise resolved, or the debtor's Federal employment ceases, whichever occurs first.
(4) After Federal Salary Offset begins, the debtor may request a reduction in the amount deducted from disposable pay each payday. When Treasury determines that the amount deducted causes financial harm under the rules in § 422.833(j), they will reduce that amount. Treasury will not reduce the amount from the debtor's disposable pay if the debt was caused by:
(A) An intentional false statement by the debtor, or
(B) The debtor's willful concealment of, or failure to furnish, material information.
(2) “Willful concealment” means an intentional, knowing and purposeful delay in providing, or failure to reveal, material information.
(e)
Refunds.
Treasury will promptly refund to the debtor any amounts collected that the debtor does not owe. Refunds do not bear interest unless required or permitted by law or contract.
§ 422.833
Administrative wage garnishment for administrative debts.
(a)
Purpose.
This part prescribes the standards and procedures for collecting money from a debtor's disposable pay by means of Administrative Wage Garnishment to satisfy delinquent non-tax debts owed to us, the Social Security Administration.
(b)
Authority.
These standards and procedures are authorized under the wage garnishment provisions of the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, codified at 31 U.S.C. 3720D, and the Department of the Treasury's (Treasury) Administrative Wage Garnishment regulation at 31 CFR 285.11.
(1) This part will apply notwithstanding any provision of State law.
(2) Nothing in this part precludes the compromise of a debt or the suspension or termination of collection action in accordance with § 422.803 of this title or other applicable law or regulation, and the Commissioner has retained the authority. The Department of Justice has exclusive authority to suspend or terminate collection action on a debt affected by fraud.
(3) The receipt of payments pursuant to this part does not preclude us from pursuing other debt collection remedies, including the offset of Federal or State payments to satisfy delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States. We will pursue such debt collection remedies separately or in conjunction with Administrative Wage Garnishment.
(4) This section does not apply to the collection of delinquent non-tax debts owed to the United States from the wages of Federal employees from their Federal employment. Federal pay is subject to the Federal Salary Offset procedures set forth in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and other applicable laws.
(5) Nothing in this section requires us to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations.
(c)
Definitions.
In this section, the following definitions will apply:
(1)
Business day
means Monday through Friday. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Federal legal holiday, in which case the next business day following the holiday will be considered the last day of the period.
(2)
Day
means calendar day. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday, in which case the next business day will be considered the last day of the period.
(3)
Debt
means an amount of funds or other property determined by an appropriate official of the Federal Government to be owed to the United States from any person, organization, or entity or any other debt that meets the definition of “claim” or “debt” under 31 U.S.C. 3701(b), excluding program overpayments made under title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act.
(4)
Debtor
means an individual who owes a delinquent non-tax debt to the United States.
(5)
Delinquent debt
means any non-tax debt that has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written demand for payment, or applicable payment agreement or instrument, unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made. For purposes of this part, “delinquent” and “overdue” have the same meaning.
(6)
Disposable pay
means that part of the debtor's compensation (including, but not limited to, salary, bonuses, commissions, and vacation pay) from an employer remaining after the deduction of health insurance premiums and any amounts required by law to be withheld. For purposes of this part, “amounts required by law to be withheld” include amounts for deductions such as social security taxes and withholding taxes, but do not include any amount withheld pursuant to a court order.
(7)
Employer
means a person or entity that employs the services of others and that pays their wages or salaries. The term employer includes, but is not limited to, State and local Governments, but does not include an agency of the Federal Government as defined by 31 CFR 285.11(c).
(8)
Garnishment
means the process of withholding amounts from an employee's disposable pay and paying those amounts to a creditor in satisfaction of a withholding order.
(9)
Hearing
means a review of the documentary evidence concerning the existence or amount of a debt or the terms of a repayment schedule, provided such repayment schedule is established other than by a written agreement entered into pursuant to this part. If the hearing official determines that the issues in dispute cannot be resolved solely by review of the written record, such as when the validity of the debt turns on the issue of credibility or veracity, an oral hearing may be provided.
(10)
Hearing official
means an administrative law judge or appropriate alternate.
(11)
Treasury
means the Department of the Treasury.
(12)
Withholding order
for purposes of this part means “Wage Garnishment Order (SF329B).” Also for purposes of this part, the terms “wage garnishment order” and “garnishment order” have the same meaning as “withholding order.”
(d)
General rule.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, whenever an individual owes a delinquent debt, the agency or another Federal agency collecting a debt on our behalf (see § 422.803) may initiate administrative proceedings to garnish the wages of the delinquent debtor.
(2) Treasury will not garnish the wages of a debtor who we know has been involuntarily separated from employment until the debtor has been re-employed continuously for at least 12 months. The debtor has the burden to inform the agency of the circumstances surrounding an involuntary separation from employment.
(e)
Notice
—(1)
Notice requirements.
At least 30 days before the initiation of garnishment proceedings, Treasury will mail, by first class mail, to the debtor's last known address, a notice informing the debtor of:
(i) The nature and amount of the debt;
(ii) The intention to initiate proceedings to collect the debt through deductions from pay until the debt and
all accumulated interest, penalties, and administrative costs are paid in full;
(iii) The debtor's right:
(A) To review and copy our records related to the debt;
(B) To enter into a written repayment which is agreeable to the agency;
(C) To a hearing, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, concerning the existence or the amount of the debt or the terms of the proposed repayment schedule under the garnishment order, except that the debtor is not entitled to a hearing concerning the proposed repayment schedule if the terms were established by written agreement pursuant to paragraph (1)(iii)(B) of this section; and
(iv) The periods within which the debtor may exercise his or her rights.
(2)
Treasury will keep a copy of the dated notice.
The notice may be retained electronically so long as the manner of retention is sufficient for evidentiary purposes.
(f)
Hearing
—(1)
In general.
Upon timely written request of the debtor, Treasury will provide a paper or oral hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt, or the terms of a repayment schedule established other than by written agreement under paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(B) of this section.
(2)
Request for hearing.
(i) The request for a hearing must be signed by the debtor, state each issue being disputed, and identify and explain with reasonable specificity all facts and evidence that the debtor believes support the debtor's position. Supporting documentation identified by the debtor should be attached to the request.
(ii) Effect of timely request: Subject to paragraph (e)(10) of this section, if the debtor's written request is received on or before the 15 business days following the mailing of the notice required under this part, a withholding order will not be issued under paragraph (g) of this section until the debtor has been provided the requested hearing, and a decision in accordance with paragraphs (e)(7) and (8) of this section has been rendered.
(iii) Failure to timely request a hearing: If the debtor's written request is received after the 15th business day following the mailing of the notice required under this part, Treasury will provide a hearing to the debtor. However, Treasury may not delay the issuance of a withholding order unless they determine that the delay in submitting such request was caused by factors beyond the control of the debtor, or receive information that they determine justifies a delay or cancellation of the withholding order.
(3)
Oral hearing.
(i) For purposes of this section, a debtor will be provided a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the hearing official determines that the issues in dispute cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, such as when the validity of the claim turns on the issue of credibility or veracity.
(ii) If the hearing official decides to have a hearing, a debtor can specify to Treasury whether he or she wants to appear in person or by telephone. At the debtor's option, the oral hearing may be conducted in person or by telephone conference. The hearing official will notify the debtor of the date, time, and in the case of an in-person hearing, the location of the hearing. All travel expenses incurred by the debtor in connection with an in-person hearing will be borne by the debtor.
(4)
Paper hearing.
(i) If the hearing official determines an oral hearing is not required by this section, the hearing official will afford the debtor a paper hearing, that is, the issues in dispute will be decided based upon a review of the written record.
(ii) The hearing official will notify the debtor of the deadline for the submission of additional evidence if necessary for a review of the record.
(5)
Burden of proof.
(i) Treasury has the initial burden of proving the existence or amount of the debt.
(ii) Thereafter, if the debtor disputes the existence or amount of the debt, the debtor must present Treasury preponderant evidence that no debt exists or that the amount is incorrect. Debtors challenging the terms of a repayment schedule must provide preponderant evidence to Treasury that the terms of the repayment schedule are unlawful, would cause the debtor financial hardship, or that operation of law prohibits collection of the debt.
(6)
Record.
The hearing official will maintain a summary record of any hearing provided under this part. A hearing is not required to be a formal evidentiary-type hearing, but witnesses who testify in an oral hearing must do so under oath or affirmation.
(7)
Date of decision.
(i) The hearing official will issue a written decision, as soon as practicable, but no later than 60 days after the date on which the request for the hearing was received by the agency.
(ii) If the hearing official is unable to provide the debtor with a hearing and render a decision within 60 days after the receipt of the request for such hearing:
(A) A withholding order may not be issued until the hearing is held and a decision is rendered; or
(B) A withholding order previously issued to the debtor's employer must be suspended beginning on the 61st day after the receipt of the hearing request and continuing until a hearing is held and a decision is rendered.
(8)
Content of decision.
The written decision will include:
(i) A summary of the facts presented;
(ii) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions; and
(iii) The terms of any repayment schedule, if applicable.
(9)
Final agency action.
The hearing official's decision will be the final agency action for the purposes of judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act. 5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
(10)
Failure to appear.
In the absence of good cause shown, a debtor who fails to appear at a hearing will be deemed as not having timely filed a request for a hearing.
(g)
Withholding order.
Unless Treasury receives information that determines a justified delay or cancellation of a withholding order, Treasury will send, by first class mail, an SF-329A “Letter to Employer
Important Notice to Employer,” an SF-329B “Wage Garnishment Order,” an SF-329C “Wage Garnishment Worksheet,” and an SF-329D “Employer Certification” to the debtor's employer within 30 days after the debtor fails to make a timely request for a hearing or, if the timely request for a hearing is made by the debtor, within 30 days after a final decision is made by the agency to proceed with garnishment.
(h)
Certification by employer.
The employer must complete and return the SF-329D “Employer Certification” within 20 days of receipt.
(i)
Amounts withheld.
(1) After receipt of a withholding order issued under this part, the employer will deduct from all disposable pay paid to the debtor during each pay period the amount of garnishment described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section. The employer may use the SF-329C “Wage Garnishment Worksheet” to calculate the amount to be deducted from the debtor's disposable pay.
(2) Subject to paragraphs (h)(3)(i) and (h)(4) of this section, the amount of garnishment will be the lesser of:
(i) The amount indicated on the garnishment order up to 15 percent of the debtor's disposable pay; or
(ii) The amount set forth in 15 U.S.C. 1673(a)(2) (Maximum allowable garnishment). The amount set forth at 15 U.S.C. 1673(a)(2) is the amount by which a debtor's disposable pay exceeds an amount equivalent to thirty times the minimum wage. See 29 CFR 870.10.
(3)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section, when a debtor's pay is subject to multiple withholding orders, unless otherwise provided by Federal law, withholding orders issued pursuant to this part will have priority over other withholding orders that are served later.
(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, withholding orders for family support will have priority over withholding orders issued under this part.
(iii) If amounts are being withheld from a debtor's pay pursuant to a withholding order served on an employer before a withholding order issued pursuant to this part, or if a withholding order for family support is served on an employer at any time, the amounts withheld pursuant to a withholding order issued under this part will be the lesser of:
(A) The amount calculated under paragraph (h)(3)(iii)(B) of this section; or
(B) An amount equal to 25 percent of the debtor's disposable pay less the amount(s) withheld under the withholding order(s) with priority.
(4) If the debtor owes more than one debt to the agency, Treasury will issue multiple withholding orders provided that the total amount garnished from the debtor's pay for such orders does not exceed the amount set forth in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(5) An amount greater than that set forth in paragraphs (h)(2) or (3) of this section may be withheld with the debtor's written consent.
(6) The employer will promptly pay all amounts withheld in accordance with the withholding order issued pursuant to this part.
(7) The employer is not required to vary its normal pay and disbursement cycles in order to comply with the withholding order.
(8) Any assignment or allotment by an employee will be void to the extent it interferes with or prohibits execution of the withholding order issued under this part, except for any assignment or allotment made pursuant to a family support judgment or order.
(9) The employer will withhold the appropriate amount from the debtor's wages for each pay period until the employer receives notification from the agency to discontinue wage withholding.
(10) The withholding order, SF-329B “Wage Garnishment Order,” sent to the employer under paragraph (g) of this section, requires the employer to commence wage withholding on the first payday after the employer receives the order. However, if the first payday is within 10 days after receipt of the order, the employer may elect to begin deductions on the second payday.
(11) An employer may not discharge, refuse to employ, or take disciplinary action against any debtor because of the issuance of a withholding order under this part.
(j)
Financial hardship.
(1) A debtor whose wages are subject to a withholding order may, at any time, request a review by Treasury of the amount garnished, based on materially changed circumstances, such as disability, divorce, or catastrophic illness, which result in financial hardship.
(2) A debtor requesting review under paragraph (i)(1) of this section will submit the basis for the claim that the current amount of garnishment results in a financial hardship to the debtor, along with supporting documentation. Treasury will consider any information submitted in accordance with this part.
(3) If Treasury finds financial hardship, to reflect the debtor's financial condition, Treasury will downwardly adjust the amount garnished by an amount and for a period established by the agency. Treasury will notify the employer of any adjustments in the amount to be withheld.
(k)
Fraud and willful concealment or failure to furnish information.
Treasury will not reduce the amount that the employer withholds from disposable pay if the debt was caused by an intentional false statement.
(l)
Refunds.
(1) If the hearing official, pursuant to a hearing under this part, determines that a debt is not legally due and owing to the United States, Treasury will promptly refund any amount collected by means of Administrative Wage Garnishment.
(2) Unless required by Federal law or contract, refunds under this part will not bear interest.
(m)
Ending garnishment.
(1) Once Treasury has fully recovered the amounts owed by the debtor, including interest, penalties, and administrative costs assessed pursuant to and in accordance with § 422.803 of this title, Treasury will send the debtor's employer notification to discontinue wage withholding.
(2) At least annually, Treasury will review debtors' accounts to ensure that garnishment has ended for accounts that have been paid in full.
(n)
Employers' responsibilities and right of action.
(1) The employer of a debtor subject to wage withholding pursuant to this part will pay the agency as directed in a withholding order issued under this part.
(2) Treasury may bring suit against an employer for any amount that the employer fails to withhold from wages owed and payable to a debtor in accordance with paragraphs (g) and (i) of this section, plus attorney's fees, costs, and, if applicable, punitive damages.
(3) A suit under this section may not be filed before the end of the collection action involving a particular debtor, unless earlier filing is necessary to
avoid expiration of any applicable statute of limitations period. For purposes of this section, “end of collection action” occurs when we have completed taking collection action in accordance with part 422, subpart I of this title or other applicable law or regulation.
(4) Notwithstanding any other provision or action referred to in this section, the end of the collection action will be deemed to occur one (1) year after the agency does not receive any payment of wages that were subject to a garnishment order issued under this part.
§ 422.835
Debt reporting and use of credit reporting agencies.
(a)
Reporting delinquent debts.
(1) We may report delinquent debts over $25 to credit bureaus or other automated databases.
(2) We will report administrative debts owed by individuals to consumer reporting agencies pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(12). We may disclose only the individual's name, address, and Social Security number and the nature, amount, status, and history of the debt.
(3) Once we refer a debt to the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) for collection, Treasury may handle any subsequent reporting to or updating of a credit bureau or other automated database.
(4) Where there is reason to believe that a debtor has filed a bankruptcy petition, prior to proceeding under this paragraph (a), we will contact the Office of the General Counsel for legal advice concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly with respect to the applicability of the automatic stay, 11 U.S.C. 362, and the procedures for obtaining relief from such stay.
(5) If the debtor has not received prior notice under § 422.805, before reporting a delinquent debt under this section, we will provide the debtor at least 60 days notice including:
(i) The amount and nature of the debt;
(ii) That the debt is delinquent and that we intend to report the debt to a credit bureau;
(iii) The specific information that we will disclose;
(iv) The right to dispute the accuracy and validity of the information being disclosed; and
(v) If a previous opportunity was not provided, the right to request review of the debt or rescheduling of payment.
(b)
Use of credit reporting agencies.
We may use credit-reporting agencies to determine a debtor's ability to repay a debt and to locate debtors. In the case of an individual, we may disclose, as a routine use under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3), only the individual's name, address, and Social Security number, and the purpose for which the information will be used.
§ 422.837
Contracting with private collection contractors and with entities that locate and recover unclaimed assets.
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, we may contract with private collection contractors to recover delinquent debts, if:
(1) We retain the authority to resolve disputes, compromise debts, suspend or terminate collection action, and, as appropriate, to refer debts to the Department of Justice for review and litigation;
(2) The private collection contractor is not allowed to offer the debtor, as an incentive for payment, the opportunity to pay the debt less the private collection contractor's fee, unless we have granted such authority prior to the offer;
(3) The contract provides that the private collection contractor is subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 to the extent specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(m) and to applicable Federal and State laws and regulations pertaining to debt collection practices, including, but not limited, to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U.S.C. 1692; and
(4) The private collection contractor is required to account for all amounts collected.
(b) We will use government-wide debt collection contracts to obtain debt collection services provided by private collection contractors. However, we may refer debts to private collection contractors pursuant to a contract between the agency and the private collection contractor only if such debts are not subject to the requirement to
transfer debts to the Treasury for debt collection under 31 U.S.C. 3711(g) and 31 CFR 285.12(e).
(c) Debts arising under the Social Security Act (which can be collected by private collection contractors only by Department of the Treasury (Treasury) after the debt has been referred to Treasury for collection) are excluded from this section.
(d) We may fund private collection contractor contracts in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(d) or as otherwise permitted by law. A contract under paragraph (a) of this section may provide that the fee a private collection contractor charges the agency for collecting the debt is payable from the amounts collected.
(e) We may enter into contracts for locating and recovering assets of the United States, including unclaimed assets. However, before entering into a contract to recover assets of the United States that may be held by a State Government or financial institution, we must establish procedures that are acceptable to the Secretary of the Treasury.
(f) We enter into contracts for debtor asset and income search reports. In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(d), such contracts may provide that the fee a contractor charges the agency for such services may be payable from the amounts recovered unless otherwise prohibited by statute.
§ 422.839
Offset against amounts payable from civil service retirement and disability fund and the Federal employees' retirement system.
Upon providing the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) written certification that a debtor has been afforded the procedures provided in § 422.823 of this part, we may request OPM to offset a debtor's anticipated or future benefit payments under the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (Fund) and the Federal Employees' Retirement System (FERS) in accordance with regulations codified at 5 CFR 831.1801 through 831.1808, and 5 CFR part 845 Subpart D. Upon receipt of such a request, OPM will identify and “flag” a debtor's account in anticipation of the time when the debtor requests, or becomes eligible to receive, payments from the Fund or FERS.
§ 422.842
Liquidation of collateral.
(a)(1) If the debtor fails to pay the debt(s) within a reasonable time after demand and if such action is in the best interests of the United States, we will liquidate security or collateral through the exercise of a power of sale in the security instrument or a non-judicial foreclosure and apply the proceeds to the applicable debt(s).
(2) Collection from other sources, including liquidation of security or collateral, is not a prerequisite to requiring payment by a surety, insurer, or guarantor unless such action is expressly required by statute or contract.
(3) We will give the debtor reasonable notice of the sale and an accounting of any surplus proceeds and will comply with other requirements under law or contract.
(b) Where there is reason to believe that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, we will contact the Office of the General Counsel for legal advice concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly with respect to the applicability of the automatic stay, 11 U.S.C. 362, and the procedures for obtaining relief from such stay prior to proceeding under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 422.846
Bases for compromise.
(a)
Scope and application
—(1)
Scope.
The standards set forth in this subpart apply to the compromise of administrative debts pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711. We may exercise such compromise authority for debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, the agency when the amount of the debt then due, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, does not exceed $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General.
(2)
Application.
Unless otherwise provided by law, when the principal balance of a debt, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, exceeds $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General, the authority to accept a compromise rests with the Department of Justice (DOJ). We will evaluate the compromise offer
using the factors set forth in this subpart. If an offer to compromise any debt in excess of $100,000 is acceptable to the agency, we will refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the DOJ using a Claims Collection Litigation Report (CCLR). A CCLR may be obtained from the DOJ's National Central Intake Facility. The referral will include appropriate financial information and a recommendation for the acceptance of the compromise offer. DOJ approval is not required if we reject a compromise offer.
(b)
Bases for compromise
—(1)
Compromise.
We may compromise a debt if the agency cannot collect the full amount based upon the debtor's inability to pay, inability to collect the full debt, the cost of collection, or if we are doubtful that the debt can be proven in court.
(i)
Inability to pay.
We may compromise a debt if the debtor is unable to pay the full amount in a reasonable time, as verified through credit reports or other financial information. In determining a debtor's inability to pay the full amount of the debt within a reasonable time, we will obtain and verify the debtor's claim of inability to pay by using credit reports and/or a current financial statement from the debtor, executed under penalty of perjury, showing the debtor's assets, liabilities, income, and expenses. We may use a financial information form used in connection with the agency's programs or may request suitable forms from the DOJ or the local United States Attorney's Office. We also may consider other relevant factors such as:
(A) Age and health of the debtor;
(B) Present and potential income;
(C) Inheritance prospects;
(D) The possibility that assets have been concealed or improperly transferred by the debtor; and
(E) The availability of assets or income that may be realized by enforced collection proceedings.
(ii)
Inability to collect full debt.
We may compromise a debt if the Government is unable to collect the debt in full within a reasonable time by enforced collection proceedings.
(A) In determining the Government's ability to enforce collection, we will consider the applicable exemptions available to the debtor under State and Federal law, and we may also consider uncertainty as to the price any collateral or other property will bring at a forced sale.
(B) A compromise affected under this section should be for an amount that bears a reasonable relation to the amount that can be recovered by enforced collection procedures, with regard to any exemptions available to the debtor and the time that collection will take.
(iii)
Cost of collection.
We may compromise a debt if the cost of collecting the debt does not justify the enforced collection of the full amount.
(A) The amount accepted in compromise of such debts may reflect an appropriate discount for the administrative and litigation costs of collection, with consideration given to the time it will take to effect collection. Collection costs may be a substantial factor in the settlement of small debts.
(B) In determining whether the costs of collection justify enforced collection of the full amount, we will consider whether continued collection of the debt, regardless of cost, is necessary to further an enforcement principal, such as the Government's willingness to pursue aggressively defaulting and uncooperative debtors.
(iv)
Doubtful debt can be proven in court.
We may compromise a debt if there is significant doubt concerning the Government's ability to prove its case in court.
(A) If significant doubt exists concerning the Government's ability to prove its case in court for the full amount claimed, either because of the legal issues involved or because of a legitimate dispute as to the facts, then the amount accepted in compromise should fairly reflect the probabilities of successful prosecution to judgment, with due regard to the availability of witnesses and other evidentiary support for the Government's claim.
(B) In determining the litigation risks involved, we will consider the probable amount of court costs and attorney fees a court may impose pursuant to the Equal Access to Justice Act, 28 U.S.C. 2412, if the Government is unsuccessful in litigation.
(2)
Installments.
We may not accept compromises payable in installments. This is not an advantageous form of compromise in terms of time and administrative expense. If, however, payment in installments is necessary in cases of compromise based on paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, we will obtain a legally enforceable written agreement providing that, in the event of default, the full original principal balance of the debt prior to compromise, less sums paid thereon, is reinstated. In cases of compromise based on paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, we will consult with the Office of the General Counsel concerning the appropriateness of including such a requirement in the legally enforceable written agreement. Whenever possible, we will obtain security for repayment in the manner set forth in § 422.809.
(c)
Enforcement policy.
Subject to the Commissioner's approval, we may compromise statutory penalties, forfeitures, or claims established as an aid to enforcement and to compel compliance if our enforcement policy, in terms of deterrence and securing compliance, present, and future, will be adequately served by the agency's acceptance of the sum to be agreed upon.
(d)
Joint and several liability.
(1) When two or more debtors are jointly and severally liable, we will pursue collection against all debtors, as appropriate. We will not attempt to allocate the burden of payment between the debtors but will proceed to liquidate the indebtedness as quickly as possible.
(2) We will ensure that a compromise agreement with one debtor does not automatically release the agency's claim against the remaining debtor(s). The amount of a compromise with one debtor will not be considered a precedent or binding in determining the amount that will be required from other debtors jointly and severally liable on the claim.
(e)
Further review of compromise offers.
If we are uncertain whether to accept a firm, written, substantive compromise offer on a debt that is within the agency's statutory compromise authority, we may use a CCLR with supporting data and particulars concerning the debt to refer the offer to the DOJ's Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division. The DOJ may act upon such an offer or return it to the agency with instructions or advice.
(f)
Consideration of tax consequences to the Government.
In negotiating a compromise, we will consider the tax consequences to the Government. In particular, we will consider requiring a waiver of tax-loss-carry-forward and tax-loss-carry-back rights of the debtor. For information on discharge of indebtedness reporting requirements, see § 422.848(e).
(g)
Mutual release of the debtor and the Government.
In all appropriate instances, a compromise that is accepted will be implemented by means of a mutual release. The terms of such mutual release will provide that the debtor is released from further non-tax liability on the compromised debt in consideration of payment in full of the compromise amount, and the Government and its officials, past and present, are released and discharged from any and all claims and causes of action arising from the same transaction that the debtor may have. In the event a mutual release is not executed when a debt is compromised, unless prohibited by law, the debtor is still deemed to have waived any and all claims and causes of action against the Government and its officials related to the transaction giving rise to the compromised debt.
§ 422.848
Suspension and termination of collection activities.
(a)
Scope and application
—(1)
Scope.
The standards set forth in this subpart apply to the suspension or termination of collection activity pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711 on debts that do not appear to be fraudulent or that do not exceed $100,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, after deducting the amount of partial payments or collections, if any. Prior to referring a debt to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for litigation, we may suspend or terminate collection under this subpart with respect to such debts that arise out of the activities of, or are referred or transferred for collection services to, the agency.
(2)
Application.
(i) If the debt stems from a claim that appears to be fraudulent, false, or misrepresented by a party with an interest in the claim or after deducting the amount of partial payments or collections, the principal amount of the debt exceeds $100,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, the authority to suspend or terminate rests solely with the DOJ.
(ii) If we believe that suspension or termination of any debt that relates to a claim that appears to be fraudulent, false, or misrepresented by a party with an interest in the claim or that exceeds $100,000 may be appropriate, we will use the Claims Collection Litigation Report to refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the DOJ. The referral will specify the reasons for our recommendation. If, prior to referral to the DOJ, we determine that a debt is plainly erroneous or clearly without merit, we may terminate collection activity regardless of the suspected fraud or amount involved without obtaining the DOJ's concurrence.
(b)
Suspension of collection activity.
(1) We may suspend collection activity on a debt when:
(i) The debtor cannot be located;
(ii) The debtor's financial condition is not expected to improve; or
(iii) The debtor has requested a legally permissible waiver or review of the debt.
(2)
Financial condition.
Based on the current financial condition of a debtor, we may suspend collection activity on a debt when the debtor's future prospects justify retention of the debt for periodic review and collection activity, and:
(i) No applicable statute of limitations has expired; or
(ii) Future collection can be effected by Administrative Offset, notwithstanding the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations for litigation of claims, with due regard to any statute of limitation for Administrative Offset prescribed by 31 U.S.C. 3716(e)(1); or
(iii) The debtor agrees to pay interest on the amount of the debt on which collection will be suspended and suspension is likely to enhance the debtor's ability to pay the full amount of the principal of the debt with interest at a later date.
(3)
Waiver or review.
(i) We will suspend collection activity during the time required for consideration of the debtor's request for waiver or administrative review of the debt if the statute under which the request is sought prohibits us from collecting the debt during that time.
(ii) If the statute under which the waiver or administrative review request is sought does not prohibit collection activity pending consideration of the request, we may use discretion, on a case-by-case basis, to suspend collection. We will ordinarily suspend collection action upon a request for waiver or review if we are prohibited by statute or regulation from issuing a refund of amounts collected prior to agency consideration of the debtor's request. However, we will not suspend collection when we determine that the request for waiver or review is frivolous or was made primarily to delay collection.
(4)
Bankruptcy.
Upon learning that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, we must suspend collection activity on the debt, pursuant to the provisions of 11 U.S.C. 362, 1201, and 1301, unless we can clearly establish that the automatic stay has been lifted or is no longer in effect. In such cases, we will consult our Office of the General Counsel for advice. When appropriate, the Office of the General Counsel will take the necessary legal steps to ensure that no funds or money are paid by the agency to the debtor until relief from the automatic stay is obtained.
(c)
Termination of collection activity.
(1) We may terminate collection activity when:
(i) We are unable to collect any substantial amount through our own efforts or through the efforts of others;
(ii) We are unable to locate the debtor;
(iii) Costs of collection are anticipated to exceed the amount recoverable;
(iv) The debt is legally without merit or enforcement of the debt is barred by any applicable statute of limitations;
(v) The debt cannot be substantiated; or
(vi) The debt against the debtor has been discharged in bankruptcy.
(2)(i) Collection activity will not be terminated before we have pursued all appropriate means of collection and determined, based upon the results of the collection activity, that the debt is uncollectible.
(ii) Termination of collection activity ceases active collection of the debt. The termination of collection activity does not preclude us from retaining a record of the account for purposes of:
(A) Selling the debt, if the Secretary of the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) determines that such sale is in the best interest of the United States;
(B) Pursuing collection at a subsequent date in the event there is a change in the debtor's status or a new collection tool becomes available;
(C) Offsetting against future income or assets not available at the time of termination of collection activity; or
(D) Screening future applicants for prior indebtedness.
(3) We will terminate collection activity on a debt that has been discharged in bankruptcy, regardless of the amount. We may continue collection activity, however, subject to the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, for any payments provided under a plan of reorganization. Offset and recoupment rights may survive the discharge of the debtor in bankruptcy and, under some circumstances, claims also may survive the discharge. For example, when we are a known creditor of a debtor, the claims of the agency may survive a discharge if we did not receive notice of the bankruptcy proceeding or the debt was affected by fraud. When we believe that the agency has claims or offsets that may have survived the discharge of the debtor, we will contact the Office of the General Counsel for legal advice.
(d)
Exception to termination.
When a significant enforcement policy is involved or recovery of a judgment is a prerequisite to the imposition of administrative sanctions, we may refer debts to the DOJ for litigation even though termination of collection activity may otherwise be appropriate.
(e)
Discharge of indebtedness; reporting requirements.
(1)(i) Before discharging a delinquent debt, also referred to as close out of the debt, we will take all appropriate steps to collect the debt in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g)(9), and §§ 422.803 and 422.810 of this part, including, as applicable, Administrative Offset; tax refund offset; Federal Salary Offset; credit bureau reporting; Administrative Wage Garnishment; litigation; foreclosure; and referral to the Treasury, Treasury-designated debt collection centers, or private collection contractors.
(ii) Discharge of indebtedness is distinct from termination or suspension of collection activity under this subpart, and is governed by the Internal Revenue Code. When collection action on a debt is suspended or terminated, the debt remains delinquent and further collection action may be pursued at a later date in accordance with the standards set forth in this part and 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.
(iii) When we discharge a debt in full or in part, further collection action is prohibited. Therefore, before discharging a debt, we must:
(A) Make the determination that collection action is no longer warranted; and
(B) Terminate debt collection action.
(2) In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(i), we will use competitive procedures to sell a delinquent debt upon termination of collection action if the Secretary of the Treasury determines such a sale is in the best interests of the United States. Since the discharge of a debt precludes any further collection action, including the sale of a delinquent debt, we may not discharge a debt until the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3711(i) have been met.
(3) Upon discharge of indebtedness, we must report the discharge to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in accordance with the requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6050P and 26 CFR 1.6050P-1. We may request that Treasury or Treasury-designated debt collection centers file such a discharge report to the IRS on our behalf.
(4) When discharging a debt, we must request that litigation counsel release any liens of record securing the debt.
[80 FR 61734, Oct. 14, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 1329, Jan. 10, 2023]
§ 422.850
Referrals to the Department of Justice.
(a)
Prompt referral.
(1)(i) We will promptly refer to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for litigation debts on which aggressive collection activity has been taken in accordance with § 422.803, and that cannot be compromised, or on which collection activity cannot be suspended or terminated, in accordance with § 422.848.
(ii) We may refer debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, the agency to DOJ for litigation.
(2)(i) Debts for which the principal amount is over $100,000 or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be referred to the Civil Division or other division responsible for litigating such debts at the DOJ.
(ii) Debts for which the principal amount is $1,000,000 or less, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be referred to the Nationwide Central Intake Facility at the DOJ as required by the Claims Collections Litigation Report (CCLR) instructions.
(3)(i) Consistent with aggressive agency collection activity and the standards contained in this part and 31 CFR parts 900 through 904, debts will be referred to the DOJ as early as possible and, in any event, well within the period for initiating timely lawsuits against the debtors.
(ii) We will make every effort to refer delinquent debts to the DOJ for litigation within one year of the date such debts last became delinquent. In the case of guaranteed or insured loans, we will make every effort to refer these delinquent debts to the DOJ for litigation within one year from the date the debt was known to the agency.
(4) The DOJ has exclusive jurisdiction over debts referred to it pursuant to this subpart. Upon referral of a debt to the DOJ, we will:
(i) Immediately terminate the use of any administrative collection activities to collect the debt;
(ii) Advise the DOJ of the collection tools utilized and the results of activities to date; and
(iii) Refrain from having any contact with the debtor and direct all debtor inquiries concerning the debt to the DOJ.
(5) After referral of a debt under this subpart, we will immediately notify the DOJ of any payments credited by the agency to the debtor's account. Pursuant to 31 CFR 904.1(b), after referral of the debt under this subpart, the DOJ will notify the agency of any payment received from the debtor.
(b)
Claims Collection Litigation Report.
(1)(i) Unless excepted by the DOJ, we will complete a CCLR and associated signed Certificate of Indebtedness to refer all administratively uncollectible claims to the DOJ for litigation.
(ii) We will complete all sections of the CCLR appropriate to each debt as required by the CCLR instructions and furnish such other information as may be required in specific cases.
(2) We will indicate clearly on the CCLR the actions that we wish the DOJ to take with respect to the referred debt. We may indicate specifically any of a number of litigation activities the DOJ may choose to pursue, including enforced collection, judgment lien only, renew judgment lien only, renew judgment lien and enforced collection, program enforcement, foreclosure only, and foreclosure and deficiency judgment.
(3) We will also use the CCLR to refer a debt to the DOJ for the purpose of obtaining any necessary approval of a proposal to compromise a debt or to suspend or terminate administrative collection activity on a debt.
(c)
Preservation of evidence.
We will maintain and preserve all files and records that may be needed by the DOJ to prove our claim in court. When referring debts to the DOJ for litigation, certified copies of the documents that form the basis for the claim should be provided along with the CCLR. Upon its request, the original documents will be provided to the DOJ.
(d)
Minimum amount of referrals.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)
of this section, we will not refer for litigation claims of less than $2,500 exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, or such other amount as the Attorney General may prescribe.
(2) We will not refer claims of less than the minimum amount unless:
(i) Litigation to collect such smaller amount is important to ensure compliance with the agency's policies and programs;
(ii) The agency is referring the claim solely for the purpose of securing a judgment against the debtor, which will be filed as a lien against the debtor's property pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 3201 and returned to the agency for enforcement; or
(iii) The debtor has the clear ability to pay the claim and the Government can enforce payment effectively, with due regard for the exemptions available to the debtor under State and Federal law and the judicial remedies available to the Government.
(3) We will consult with the Financial Litigation Staff of the Executive Office for United States Attorneys at DOJ prior to referring claims valued at less than the minimum amount.

# Subpart J—Protecting the Public and Our Personnel To Ensure Operational Effectiveness

# Authority:
Sec. 702(a)(4)-(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(4)-(5)).

# Source:
76 FR 54702, Sept. 2, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 422.901
Scope and purpose.
The regulations in this subpart describe the process we will follow when we decide whether to ban you from entering our offices. Due to increasing reports of threats to our personnel and the public, we are taking steps to increase the level of protection we provide to our personnel and to the public. The purpose of this subpart is to inform the public and our personnel of the conduct that will subject an individual to a ban and the procedures we will follow when banning an individual from entering our offices. We expect that the regulations will result in a safer environment for our personnel and the public who visit our facilities, while ensuring that our personnel can continue to serve the American people with as little disruption to our operations as possible.
§ 422.902
Definition of personnel for purposes of this subpart.
We will construe the term “personnel” broadly to mean persons responsible for or engaged in carrying out the responsibilities, programs, or services of or on behalf of the agency. Personnel includes, but is not limited to, our employees, contractors, consultants, and examiners and State disability determination services (DDS) employees, contractors, consultants, and examiners.
§ 422.903
Prohibited conduct.
We will ban you from entering our offices if you:
(a) Physically or verbally assault our personnel or a member of the public in our occupied space;
(b) Use force or threats of force against our personnel or offices, including but not limited to communicating threats in person or by phone, facsimile, mail, or electronic mail;
(c) Engage in disruptive conduct that impedes our personnel from performing their duties; or
(d) Engage in disruptive conduct that impedes members of the public from obtaining services from our personnel.
§ 422.904
Notice of the ban.
If an agency manager makes a decision in writing that you pose a threat to the safety of our personnel, visitors, office, or the operational effectiveness of the agency, we will send you a notice banning you from our offices. The notice will contain the following information:
(a)
Type of restriction.
If we ban you from entering our offices, the ban will apply to all of our offices, and you must obtain all future service through alternate means. We will provide you in-person service only if you establish that there are no alternate means available. You must direct your request for in-person service to the manager of the office you are requesting to visit. If we determine that an office visit is warranted, we will schedule an
appointment for you and send you a certified letter notifying you of the date, time, and location of the appointment.
(b)
Prohibited conduct.
We will provide you with specific details of the prohibited conduct that served as the basis for our decision to ban you.
(c)
Alternate means of service.
If you are banned from entering our offices, you still have several means to receive services:
(1) You may use the online services available through our Web site at
http://www.socialsecurity.gov;
(2) You may call your local office. Your notice will include the contact information for your local office. You should ask to speak with the office manager or a supervisor;
(3) You may call our national toll-free number at 1-800-772-1213 between the hours of 7 a.m. and 7 p.m., Monday through Friday. You should not attempt to schedule an in-person appointment through this number. If you are deaf or hard of hearing, you may call our toll-free TTY number at 1-800-325-0778;
(4) You may write to your local office. You should address all correspondence to the attention of the office manager;
(5) With your written consent, another person may call, write, or visit us to conduct business on your behalf.
(d)
Appeal rights.
The notice will provide you with information on how to appeal the ban.
(e)
Periodic request for review of ban decision.
The notice will provide you with information on how to request review of the ban determination every three years from the date of the ban notice, or if you appeal the ban, the date of the appeal decision.
§ 422.905
Appeal rights.
You may appeal our decision to ban you. You must submit your appeal in writing to the address identified in the notice within 60 days of the date of the notice. You should identify your name, address, Social Security number, and the office that issued the notice of the ban. The appeal should clearly state why we should reconsider our decision and provide any supporting documentation. We may allow an additional 10 days for the late filing of an appeal if you show good cause for the late filing. The ban will remain in effect while the appeal is pending. We will notify you of our decision in writing.
§ 422.906
Periodic request for review of ban decision.
You may request review of our ban decision every three years. The three-year cycle to request review will begin on the date we issued notice of the ban, or if you appealed, the date of our appeal decision. You must submit your request for review of a ban decision in writing to the address identified in the original notice of the ban. Your request for review should identify your name, address, Social Security number, and office that issued the notice of the ban. Your request should clearly state why we should lift the ban and provide relevant documentation that supports removal of the restriction, including medical documentation, applicable psychiatric evaluations, work history, and any criminal record. You must prove by a preponderance of the evidence (meaning that it is more likely than not) that you no longer pose a threat to the safety of our personnel or visitors or the operational effectiveness of the agency. We will notify you of our decision in writing.
§ 422.907
Posting requirement.
We will post the regulation in this subpart in a conspicuous place in our offices that serve the public.
Pt. 423

# PART 423—SERVICE OF PROCESS
Sec.
423.1
Suits against the Social Security Administration and its employees in their official capacities.
423.3
Other process directed to the Social Security Administration or the Commissioner.
423.5
Process against Social Security Administration officials in their individual capacities.
423.7
Acknowledgment of mailed process.
423.9
Effect of regulations in this part.

# Authority:
Sec. 701 and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 901 and 902(a)(5)).

# Source:
60 FR 18992, Apr. 14, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 423.1
Suits against the Social Security Administration and its employees in their official capacities.
(a)
Suits involving individual claims arising under title II, VIII, XVI, or XVIII of the Social Security Act.
(1) In cases seeking judicial review of final decisions of the Commissioner of Social Security on individual claims for benefits under title II, VIII, or XVI of the Social Security Act, or on individual claims for a Medicare Part D subsidy under title XVIII of the Act, summonses and complaints to be served by mail on the Social Security Administration or the Commissioner of Social Security should be sent to the Office of the General Counsel, Office of Program Litigation, Social Security Administration, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235.
(2) We also accept electronic service in these cases, as provided by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(b)
Other suits.
In cases that do not involve claims described in paragraph (a) of this section, summonses and complaints to be served by mail on the Social Security Administration or the Commissioner of Social Security should be sent to the Office of the General Counsel, Social Security Administration, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235.
[88 FR 1329, Jan. 10, 2023]
§ 423.3
Other process directed to the Social Security Administration or the Commissioner.
Subpoenas and other process (other than summonses and complaints) that are required to be served on the Social Security Administration or the Commissioner of Social Security in the Commissioner's official capacity should be served as follows:
(a) If authorized by law to be served by mail, any mailed process should be sent to the Office of the General Counsel, Social Security Administration, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235.
(b) If served by an individual, the process should be delivered to the Office of the General Counsel, via the agency mail room at Social Security Administration, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235.
[88 FR 1330, Jan. 10, 2023]
§ 423.5
Process against Social Security Administration officials in their individual capacities.
Process to be served on Social Security Administration officials in their individual capacities must be served in compliance with the requirements for service of process on individuals who are not governmental officials. The Office of the General Counsel is authorized but not required to accept process to be served on Social Security Administration officials in their individual capacities if the suit relates to an employee's official duties.
§ 423.7
Acknowledgment of mailed process.
The Social Security Administration will not provide a receipt or other acknowledgment of process received, except for a return receipt associated with certified mail and where otherwise required by law.
[88 FR 1330, Jan. 10, 2023]
§ 423.9
Effect of regulations in this part.
The regulations in this part are intended solely to identify Social Security Administration officials who are authorized to accept service of process. Litigants must comply with all requirements pertaining to service of process that are established by statute and court rule even though they are not repeated in this part.
PARTS 424-428 [RESERVED]
Pt. 429

# PART 429—ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER THE FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT AND RELATED STATUTES

# Subpart A—Claims Against the Government Under the Federal Tort Claims Act
Sec.
429.101
What is this subpart about?
429.102
How do I file a claim under this subpart?
429.103
Who may file my claim?
429.104
What evidence do I need to submit with my claim?
429.105
What happens when you receive my claim?
429.106
What happens if my claim is denied?
429.107
If my claim is approved, how do I obtain payment?
429.108
What happens if I accept an award, compromise, or settlement under this subpart?
429.109
Are there any penalties for filing false claims?
429.110
Are there any limitations on SSA's authority under this subpart?

# Subpart B—Claims Under the Military Personnel and Civilian Employees' Claims Act of 1964
429.201
What is this subpart about?
429.202
How do I file a claim under this subpart?
429.203
When is a claim allowable?
429.204
Are there any restrictions on what is allowable?
429.205
What is not allowable under this subpart?
429.206
What if my claim involves a commercial carrier or an insurer?
429.207
What are the procedures for filing a claim?
429.208
How do you determine the award? Is the settlement of my claim final?
429.209
Are there any restrictions on attorney's fees?
429.210
Do I have any appeal rights under this subpart?
429.211
Are there any penalties for filing false claims?

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5); 28 U.S.C. 2672; 31 U.S.C. 3721; 28 CFR 14.11.

# Source:
69 FR 48768, Aug. 11, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Claims Against the Government Under the Federal Tort Claims Act
§ 429.101
What is this subpart about?
(a) This subpart applies only to claims filed under the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2671-2680 (FTCA), for money damages against the United States for damage to or loss of property or personal injury or death that is caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the Social Security Administration (SSA). The loss, damage, injury or death must be caused by the employee in the performance of his or her official duties, under circumstances in which the United States, if a private person, would be liable in accordance with the law of the place where the act or omission occurred. This subpart does not apply to any tort claims excluded from the FTCA under 28 U.S.C. 2680.
(b) This subpart is subject to and consistent with the regulations on administrative claims under the FTCA issued by the Attorney General at 28 CFR part 14.
§ 429.102
How do I file a claim under this subpart?
(a)
Filing an initial claim.
You must either file your claim on a properly executed Standard Form 95 or you must submit a written notification of the incident accompanied by a claim for the money damages in a sum certain for damage to or loss of property you believe occurred because of the incident. For purposes of this subpart, we consider your claim to be filed on the date we receive it at the address specified in paragraph (c) of this section. If you mistakenly send your claim to another Federal agency, we will not consider it to be filed until the date that we receive it. If you mistakenly file a claim meant for another Federal agency with SSA, we will transfer it to the appropriate Federal agency, if possible. If we are unable to determine the appropriate agency, we will return the claim to you.
(b)
Filing an amendment to your claim.
You may file an amendment to your properly filed claim at any time before the SSA Claims Officer (as defined in § 429.201(d)(3)) makes a final decision on your claim or before you bring suit under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a). You must submit an amendment in writing and sign it. If you file a timely amendment, SSA has 6 months in which to finally dispose of the amended claim. Your option to file suit does not begin until 6 months after you file the amendment.
(c)
Where to obtain claims forms and file claims.
You can obtain claims forms by writing to the Office of the General Counsel, Office of General Law, Social Security Administration, Attn: FTCA Claims, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235.
[69 FR 48768, Aug. 11, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 16327, Apr. 10, 2009; 79 FR 7577, Feb. 10, 2014; 88 FR 1330, Jan. 10, 2023]
§ 429.103
Who may file my claim?
(a)
Claims for damage to or loss of property.
If you are the owner of the property interest that is the subject of the claim, you, your duly authorized agent, or your legal representative may file the claim.
(b)
Claims for personal injury.
If you suffered the injury, you, your duly authorized agent, or your legal representative may file the claim.
(c)
Claims based on death.
The executor or administrator of your estate or any other person legally entitled to do so may file the claim.
(d)
Claims for loss wholly compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee.
The insurer may file the claim. When an insurer presents a claim asserting the rights of a subrogee, the insurer must present with the claim appropriate evidence that it has the rights of a subrogee.
(e)
Claims for loss partially compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee.
You and the insurer may file, jointly or separately. When an insurer presents a claim asserting the rights of a subrogee, the insurer must present with the claim appropriate evidence that it has the rights of a subrogee.
(f)
Claims by authorized agents or other legal representatives.
Your duly authorized agent or other legal representative may submit your claim, provided satisfactory evidence is submitted establishing that person has express authority to act on your behalf. A claim presented by an agent or legal representative must be presented in your name. If the claim is signed by the agent or legal representative, it must show the person's title or legal capacity and must be accompanied by evidence that the person has the authority to file the claim on your behalf as agent, executor, administrator, parent, guardian or other representative.
§ 429.104
What evidence do I need to submit with my claim?
(a)
Property damage.
To support a claim for property damage, either real or personal, you may be required to submit the following evidence or information:
(1) Proof of ownership.
(2) A detailed statement of the amount claimed with respect to each item of property.
(3) An itemized receipt of payment for necessary repairs or itemized written estimates of the cost of such repairs.
(4) A statement listing date of purchase, purchase price, market value of the property as of date of damage, and salvage value, where repair is not economical.
(5) Any other evidence or information that may have a bearing either on the responsibility of the United States for the injury to or loss of property or the damages claimed.
(b)
Personal injury.
To support a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, you may be required to submit the following evidence or information:
(1) A written report from your attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of your injury, nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability, your prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity. You may also be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed or designated by SSA. If you submit a written request, we will provide you with a copy of the report of the examining physician provided you agree to make available to SSA any other physician's reports made of the physical or mental condition that is the subject of your claim.
(2) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred, or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.
(3) If your prognosis reveals that you will need future treatment, a statement of expected duration of and expenses for such treatment.
(4) If you claim a loss of time from employment, a written statement from your employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether you are a full or part-time employee, and wages or salary you actually lost.
(5) If you claim a loss of income and are self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings you actually lost. For example, we may use income tax returns for several
years prior to the injury in question and the year in which the injury occurred to indicate or measure lost income. A statement of how much it cost you to hire someone to do the same work you were doing at the time of the injury might also be used in measuring lost income.
(6) Any other evidence or information that may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
(c)
Claim based on death.
To support the claim, we need the following evidence or information:
(1) An authenticated death certificate or other believable documentation showing cause of death, date of death, and age at the time of death.
(2) The decedent's employment or occupation at time of death, including monthly or yearly salary or earnings (if any), and the duration of last employment or occupation.
(3) Full names, addresses, birth dates, kinship, and marital status of the decedent's survivors, including identification of those survivors who were dependent upon the decedent for support at the time of death.
(4) Degree of support the decedent provided to each survivor dependent on the decedent for support at the time of death.
(5) The decedent's general physical and mental condition before death.
(6) Itemized bills for medical and burial expenses incurred, or itemized receipts of payments for such expenses.
(7) If damages for pain and suffering prior to death are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, any drugs administered for pain and the decedent's physical condition in the interval between injury and death.
(8) Any other evidence or information that may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the death or the damages claimed.
(d)
Time limit for submitting evidence.
You must furnish all the evidence required by this section within a reasonable time. If you fail to furnish all the evidence necessary to determine your claim within 60 days after being asked to do so, we may find that you have decided to abandon your claim.
§ 429.105
What happens when you receive my claim?
When we receive your claim, we will investigate to determine its validity. After our investigation, we will forward your claim to the SSA Claims Officer with our recommendation as to whether your claim should be fully or partially allowed or denied.
§ 429.106
What happens if my claim is denied?
(a) If your claim is denied, the SSA Claims Officer will send you, your agent, or your legal representative a written notice by certified or registered mail. The notice will include an explanation of why your claim was denied and will advise you of your right to file suit in an appropriate U.S. District Court not later than 6 months after the date of the mailing of the notice if you disagree with the determination.
(b) Before filing suit and before expiration of the 6-month period after the date of the mailing of the denial notice, you, your duly authorized agent, or your legal representative may file a written request with SSA for reconsideration by certified or registered mail. If you file a timely request for reconsideration, SSA has 6 months from the date you file your request in which to finally dispose of your claim. Your right to file suit will not begin until 6 months after you file your request for reconsideration. Final SSA action on your request for reconsideration will occur in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 429.107
If my claim is approved, how do I obtain payment?
(a)
Claims under $2,500.
If your claim is approved, you must complete a “Voucher for Payment under the Federal Tort Claims Act,” Standard Form 1145. If you are represented by an attorney, the voucher for payment (SF 1145) must designate both you and your attorney as “payees”; we will then mail the check to your attorney.
(b)
Claims in excess of $2,500.
If we approve your claim, we will send the appropriate Financial Management Service forms to the Department of the Treasury, which will mail the payment to you.
[69 FR 48768, Aug. 11, 2004, as amended at 88 FR 1330, Jan. 10, 2023]
§ 429.108
What happens if I accept an award, compromise, or settlement under this subpart?
If you, your agent, or your legal representative accept any award, compromise, or settlement under this subpart, your acceptance is final and conclusive on you, your agent or representative, and any other person on whose behalf or for whose benefit the claim was filed. The acceptance constitutes a complete release of any claim against the United States and against any employee of the Government whose act or omission gave rise to the claim, by reason of the same subject matter.
§ 429.109
Are there any penalties for filing false claims?
A person who files a false claim or makes a false or fraudulent statement in a claim against the United States may be imprisoned for not more than 5 years. (18 U.S.C. 287, 1001). In addition, that person may be liable for a civil penalty of not less than $5,000 and not more than $10,000 and damages of triple the loss or damage sustained by the United States, as well as the costs of a civil action brought to recover any penalty or damages. (31 U.S.C. 3729).
§ 429.110
Are there any limitations on SSA's authority under this subpart?
(a) An award, compromise or settlement of a claim under this subpart in excess of $25,000 needs the prior written approval of the Attorney General or his designee. For the purposes of this paragraph, we treat a principal claim and any derivative or subrogated claim as a single claim.
(b) An administrative claim may be adjusted, determined, compromised, or settled under this subpart only after consultation with the Department of Justice when, in the opinion of SSA:
(1) A new precedent or a new point of law is involved;
(2) A question of policy is or may be involved;
(3) The United States is or may be entitled to indemnity or contribution from a third party and SSA is unable to adjust the third-party claim; or
(4) The compromise of a particular claim, as a practical matter, will or may control the disposition of a related claim in which the amount to be paid may exceed $25,000.
(c) An administrative claim may be adjusted, determined, compromised or settled only after consultation with the Department of Justice when it is learned that the United States, or an employee, agent, or cost-plus contractor of the United States, is involved in litigation based on a claim arising out of the same incident or transaction.

# Subpart B—Claims Under the Military Personnel and Civilian Employees' Claims Act of 1964
§ 429.201
What is this subpart about?
(a)
Scope and purpose.
This subpart applies to all claims filed by or on behalf of employees of SSA for loss of, or damage to, personal property incident to their service with SSA under the Military Personnel and Civilian Employees Claims Act of 1964, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 3721 (MPCECA). A claim must be substantiated and the possession of the property determined to be reasonable, useful, or proper.
(b)
Maximum payment under this part.
The maximum amount that can be paid for any claim under the Act is $40,000 or, in extraordinary circumstances, $100,000, and property may be replaced in kind at the discretion of the Government.
(c)
Policy.
SSA is not an insurer and does not underwrite all personal property losses that an employee may sustain incident to employment. We encourage employees to carry private insurance to the maximum extent practicable to avoid losses that may not be recoverable from SSA. The procedures set forth in this subpart are designed to enable you to obtain the proper amount of compensation from SSA and/or a private insurer for the loss or damage. If you fail to comply with
these procedures it could reduce or preclude payment of your claim under this subpart.
(d)
Definitions.
(1) “Quarters,” unless otherwise indicated, means a house, apartment, or other residence that is an SSA employee's principal residence.
(2) “State,” unless otherwise indicated, is defined by § 404.2(c)(5) of title 20 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(3) “SSA Claims Officer” means the SSA official designated to determine claims under the MPCECA. The current designee is the Associate General Counsel for General Law, Office 1.
[69 FR 48768, Aug. 11, 2004, as amended at 88 FR 1330, Jan. 10, 2023]
§ 429.202
How do I file a claim under this subpart?
(a)
Who may file.
(1) You, your duly authorized agent, your legal representative, or your survivor may file the claim. If your survivor files the claim, the order of precedence for filing is spouse, child, parent, sibling.
(2) You may not file a claim on behalf of a subrogee, assignee, conditional vendor, or other third party.
(b)
Where to file.
You must file your claim with the Office of the General Counsel, Office of General Law, Social Security Administration, Attn: MPCECA Claims, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235.
(c)
Evidence required.
You are responsible for proving ownership or possession, the facts surrounding the loss or damage, and the value of the property. Your claim must include the following:
(1) A written statement, signed by you or your authorized agent, explaining how the damage or loss occurred. This statement must also include:
(i) A description of the type, design, model number, or other identification of the property.
(ii) The date you purchased or acquired the property and its original cost.
(iii) The location of the property when the loss or damage occurred.
(iv) The value of the property when lost or damaged.
(v) The actual or estimated cost of the repair of any damaged item.
(vi) The purpose of and authority for travel, if the loss or damage occurred while you were transporting your property or using a motor vehicle.
(vii) All available information as to who was responsible for the loss or damage, if it was not you, and all information as to insurance contracts, whether in your name or in the name of the responsible party.
(viii) Any other evidence about loss or damage that the SSA Claims Officer determines is necessary.
(2) Copies of all available and appropriate documents such as bills of sale, estimates of repairs, or travel orders. In the case of damage to an automobile, you must submit at least two estimates of repair or a certified paid bill showing the damage incurred and the cost of all parts, labor, and other items necessary to the repair of the vehicle or a statement from an authorized dealer or repair garage showing that the cost of such repairs exceeds the value of the vehicle.
(3) A copy of the power of attorney or other authorization if someone else files the claim on your behalf.
(4) A statement from your immediate supervisor confirming that possession of the property was reasonable, useful, or proper under the circumstances and that the damage or loss was incident to your service.
(d)
Time limitations.
You must file a written claim within 2 years after accrual of the claim. For purposes of this subpart, your claim accrues at the later of:
(1) The time of the accident or incident causing the loss or damage;
(2) The time the loss or damage should have been discovered by the claimant by the exercise of due diligence; or
(3) Where valid circumstances prevented you from filing your claim earlier, the time that should be construed as the date of accrual because of a circumstance that prevents the filing of a claim. If war or armed conflict prevents you from filing the claim, your claim accrues on the date hostilities terminate and your claim must be filed within 2 years of that date.
[69 FR 48768, Aug. 11, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 16327, Apr. 10, 2009; 79 FR 7577, Feb. 10, 2014; 88 FR 1330, Jan. 10, 2023]
§ 429.203
When is a claim allowable?
(a) A claim is allowable only if you were using the property incident to your service with SSA, with the knowledge and consent of a superior authority, and:
(1) The damage or loss was not caused wholly or partially by the negligent or improper action or inaction of you, your agent, the members of your family, or your private employee (the standard to be applied is that of reasonable care under the circumstances); and
(2) The possession of the property lost or damaged and the quantity and the quality possessed is determined to have been reasonable, useful, or proper under the circumstances; and
(3) The claim is substantiated by proper and convincing evidence.
(b) Claims that are otherwise allowable under this subpart will not be disallowed solely because you were not the legal owner of the property for which the claim is made.
(c) Subject to the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section and the other provisions of this subpart, any claim you make for damage to, or loss of, personal property that occurs incident to your service with SSA may be considered and allowed. For the purpose of this subpart, if you were performing your official duties at an alternate work location under an approved flexiplace agreement, the alternate work location will be considered an official duty station even if it is located in your principal residence. The alternate work location is not considered to be quarters. The following are examples of the principal types of claims that are allowable, but these examples are not exclusive and other types of claims are allowable, unless specifically excluded under this subpart:
(1)
Property damage in quarters or other authorized places.
Claims are allowable for damage to, or loss of, property arising from fire, flood, hurricane, other natural disaster, theft, or other unusual occurrence, while such property is located at:
(i) Quarters within a state that were assigned to you or otherwise provided in kind by the United States; or
(ii) Any warehouse, office, working area, or other place (except quarters) authorized or apparently authorized for the reception or storage of property.
(2)
Transportation or travel losses.
Claims are allowable for damage to, or loss of, property incident to transportation or storage of such property pursuant to order or in connection with travel under orders, including property in your custody or in the custody of a carrier, an agent or agency of the Government.
(3)
Mobile homes.
Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, mobile homes and their contents under the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Claims for structural damage to mobile homes, other than that caused by collision, and damage to contents of mobile homes resulting from such structural damage, must contain conclusive evidence that the damage was not caused by structural deficiency of the mobile home and that it was not overloaded. Claims for damage to, or loss of, tires mounted on mobile homes are not allowable, except in cases of collision, theft, or vandalism.
(4)
Enemy action or public service.
Claims are allowable for damage to, or loss of, property that directly result from:
(i) Enemy action or threat of enemy action, or combat, guerrilla, brigandage, or other belligerent activity, or unjust confiscation by a foreign power or its nationals.
(ii) Action you take to quiet a civil disturbance or to alleviate a public disaster.
(iii) Efforts you make to save human life or Government property.
(5)
Property used for the benefit of the Government.
Claims are allowable for damage to, or loss of, property when used for the benefit of the Government at the request of, or with the knowledge and consent of, superior authority, up to the amount not compensated by private insurance.
(6)
Clothing and accessories.
Claims are allowable for damage to, or loss of, clothing and accessories a person customarily wears and devices such as eyeglasses, hearing aids, dentures, or prosthetics.
(7)
Expenses incident to repair.
You may be reimbursed for the payment of any sales tax and other such fees incurred in connection with repairs to an
item. The costs of obtaining estimates of repair (subject to the limitations set forth in § 429.204(c)) are also allowable.
§ 429.204
Are there any restrictions on what is allowable?
Claims of the type described in this section are only allowable subject to the restrictions noted:
(a)
Money or currency, including coin collections.
Allowable only when lost because of fire, flood, hurricane, other natural disaster, theft from quarters (as limited by § 429.203(c)(1)), or under other reasonable circumstances in which it would be in the Government's best interest to make payment. In cases involving theft from quarters, the evidence must conclusively show that your quarters were locked at the time of the theft. Reimbursement for loss of money or currency is limited to the amount it is determined reasonable for you to have had in your possession at the time of the loss.
(b)
Government property.
Allowable only for property owned by the United States for which you are financially responsible to an agency of the Government other than SSA.
(c)
Estimate fees.
Allowable for fees paid to obtain estimates of repairs only when it is clear that you could not have obtained an estimate without paying a fee. In that case, the fee is allowable only in an amount determined to be reasonable in relation to the value of the property or the cost of the repairs.
(d)
Automobiles and motor vehicles.
(1) Claims may only be allowed for damage to, or loss of, automobiles and other motor vehicles if:
(i) You were required by your supervisor to use a motor vehicle for official Government business (official Government business, as used here, does not include travel, or parking incident to travel, between quarters and office, quarters and an approved telecommuting center, or use of vehicles for the convenience of the owner. However, it does include travel, and parking incident thereto, between quarters and an assigned place of duty specifically authorized by your supervisor as being more advantageous to the Government); or
(ii) Shipment of such motor vehicles was being furnished or provided by the Government, subject to the provisions of § 429.206; or
(2) When a claim involves damage to or loss of automobile or other motor vehicle, you will be required to present proof of insurance coverage, the deductible amount, and the amount, if any, you recovered from the insurer. If your claim is for an amount that exceeds the deductible on the insurance policy, the maximum allowable recovery will be for the amount of the deductible. If the vehicle is uninsured, the maximum allowed will be $500.00.
(e)
Computers and electronics.
Claims may be allowed for loss of, or damage to, cellular phones, fax machines, computers and related hardware and software only when lost or damaged incident to fire, flood, hurricane, other natural disaster, theft from quarters (as limited by § 429.203(c)(1)), other reasonable circumstances in which it would be in the Government's best interest to make payment, or unless being shipped as a part of a change of duty station paid for by the Agency. In incidents of theft from quarters, it must be conclusively shown that your quarters were locked at the time of the theft.
(f)
Alternate work locations.
When a claim is filed for property damage or loss at a non-Government alternate work location at which you are working pursuant to an approved flexiplace work agreement, you are required to present proof of insurance coverage, the deductible amount, and the amount, if any, you recovered from the insurer. If your claim is for an amount that exceeds the deductible on the insurance policy, the maximum allowable recovery will be for the amount of the deductible. If the property is uninsured, the maximum allowed will be $1,000.00.
§ 429.205
What is not allowable under this subpart?
Claims are not allowable for the following:
(a)
Unassigned quarters in United States.
Property loss or damage in quarters you occupied within any state
that were not assigned to you or otherwise provided in kind by the United States.
(b)
Business property.
Property used for business or profit.
(c)
Unserviceable property.
Wornout or unserviceable property.
(d)
Illegal possession.
Property acquired, possessed, or transferred in violation of the law or in violation of applicable regulations or directives.
(e)
Articles of extraordinary value.
Valuable articles, such as cameras, watches, jewelry, furs, or other articles of extraordinary value. This prohibition does not apply to articles in your personal custody or articles properly checked or inventoried with a common carrier, if you took reasonable protection or security measures.
(f)
Intangible property.
Loss of property that has no extrinsic and marketable value but is merely representative or evidence of value, such as non-negotiable stock certificates, promissory notes, bonds, bills of lading, warehouse receipts, insurance policies, baggage checks, and bank books, is not compensable. Loss of a thesis, or other similar item, is compensable only to the extent of the out-of-pocket expenses you incurred in preparing the item such as the cost of the paper or other materials. No compensation is authorized for the time you spent in its preparation or for supposed literary value.
(g)
Incidental expenses and consequential damages.
The MPCECA and this subpart authorize payment for loss of, or damage to, personal property only. Except as provided in § 429.203(c)(7), consequential damages or other types of loss or incidental expenses (such as loss of use, interest, carrying charges, cost of lodging or food while awaiting arrival of shipment, attorney fees, telephone calls, cost of transporting you or your family members, inconvenience, time spent in preparation of claim, or cost of insurance premiums) are not compensable.
(h)
Real property.
Damage to real property is not compensable. In determining whether an item is considered to be an item of personal property, as opposed to real property, normally, any movable item is considered personal property even if physically joined to the land.
(i)
Commercial property.
Articles acquired or held for sale or disposition by other commercial transactions on more than an occasional basis, or for use in a private profession or business enterprise.
(j)
Commercial storage.
Property stored at a commercial facility for your convenience and at your expense.
(k)
Claims for minimum amount.
Loss or damage amounting to less than $25.
§ 429.206
What if my claim involves a commercial carrier or an insurer?
In the event the property that is the subject of the claim was lost or damaged while in the possession of a commercial carrier or was insured, the following procedures will apply:
(a) Whenever property is damaged, lost, or destroyed while being shipped pursuant to authorized travel orders, the owner must file a written claim for reimbursement with the last commercial carrier known or believed to have handled the goods, or the carrier known to be in possession of the property when the damage or loss occurred, according to the terms of its bill of lading or contract, before submitting a claim against the Government under this subpart.
(b) Whenever property is damaged, lost, or destroyed incident to your service and is insured in whole or in part, you must make demand in writing against the insurer for reimbursement under the terms and conditions of the insurance coverage, before filing a claim against the Government.
(c) Failure to make a demand on a carrier or insurer or to make all reasonable efforts to protect and prosecute rights available against a carrier or insurer and to collect the amount recoverable from the carrier or insurer may result in reducing the amount recoverable from the Government by the maximum amount that would have been recoverable from the carrier or insurer had the claim been timely or diligently prosecuted. However, no deduction will be made where the circumstances of your service preclude reasonable filing of a claim or diligent prosecution, or the evidence indicates a demand was impracticable or would have been unavailing.
(d) After you file a claim against the carrier or insurer, you may immediately submit a claim under this subpart, without waiting until the carrier or insurer finally approves or denies your claim.
(1) Upon submitting your claim, you must certify whether you have not gained any recovery from a carrier or insurer, and enclose all pertinent correspondence.
(2) If the carrier or insurer has not taken final action on your claim, you must immediately tell the carrier or insurer to address all correspondence regarding the claim to the SSA Claims Officer, and you must provide a copy of this notice to the SSA Claims Officer.
(3) You must advise the SSA Claims Officer of any action the carrier or insurer takes on the claim and, upon request, must furnish all correspondence, documents, and other evidence pertinent to the matter.
(e) You must assign to the United States, to the extent you accept any payment on the claim, all rights, title, and interest in any claim you may have against any carrier, insurer, or other party arising out of the incident on which your claim against the United States is based. After payment of the claim by the United States, you must, upon receipt of any payment from a carrier or insurer, pay the proceeds to the United States to the extent of the payment you received from the United States.
(f) If you recover for the loss from the carrier or insurer before your claim under this subpart is settled, the amount of recovery will be applied to the claim as follows:
(1) If you recover an amount that is greater than or equal to your total loss as determined under this subpart, no compensation is allowable under this subpart.
(2) If you recover an amount that is less than such total loss, the allowable amount is determined by deducting the recovery from the amount of such total loss.
(3) For this purpose, your total loss is determined without regard to the maximum payment limitations set forth in § 429.201. However, if the resulting amount after making this deduction exceeds the maximum payment limitations, you will only be allowed the maximum amount set forth in § 429.201.
(g) In a claim arising from damage to an automobile or other motor vehicle, in no event may recovery exceed the reasonable deductible on the insurance policy.
§ 429.207
What are the procedures for filing a claim?
(a)
Form of claim.
Your claim must be presented in writing (SSA Form 1481 is available for this purpose). Any writing received by the SSA Claims Officer within the time limits set forth in § 429.202(d) will be accepted and considered a claim under the MPCECA if it constitutes a demand for compensation from SSA. A demand is required to be for a specific sum of money.
(b)
Award.
The SSA Claims Officer is authorized to settle claims filed under this subpart.
(c)
Notification.
The deciding official will provide you with a written determination on your claim.
§ 429.208
How do you determine the award? Is the settlement of my claim final?
(a) The amount allowable for damage to or loss of any item of property may not exceed the lowest of:
(1) The amount you requested for the item as a result of its loss, damage, or the cost of its repair;
(2) The actual or estimated cost of its repair; or
(3) The actual value at the time of its loss, damage, or destruction. The actual value is determined by using the current replacement cost or the depreciated value of the item since you acquired it, whichever is lower, less any salvage value of the item in question, if you retain the item.
(b) Depreciation in value is determined by considering the type of article involved, its cost, its condition when damaged or lost, and the time elapsed between the date you acquired it and the date of damage or loss.
(c) Current replacement cost and depreciated value are determined by use of publicly available adjustment rates or through use of other reasonable methods at the discretion of the SSA Claims Officer.
(d) Replacement of lost or damaged property may be made in kind wherever appropriate at the discretion of the SSA Claims Officer.
(e) At the discretion of the SSA Claims Officer, you may be required to turn over an item alleged to have been damaged beyond economical repair to the United States, in which case no deduction for salvage value will be made in the calculation of actual value.
(f) Settlement of claims under the Act are final and conclusive.
§ 429.209
Are there any restrictions on attorney's fees?
No more than 10 percent of the amount in settlement of each individual claim submitted and settled under this subpart shall be paid or delivered to, or received by, any agent or attorney on account of services rendered in connection with that claim. A person violating this subsection shall be fined not more than $1,000.00 (31 U.S.C. 3721(i)).
§ 429.210
Do I have any appeal rights under this subpart?
(a)
Deciding Official.
While you may not appeal the decision of the SSA Claims Officer in regard to claims under the MPCECA, the SSA Claims Officer may, at his or her discretion, reconsider his or her determination of a claim.
(b)
Claimant.
You may request reconsideration from the SSA Claims Officer by sending a written request for reconsideration to the SSA Claims Officer within 30 days of the date of the original determination. You must clearly state the factual or legal basis upon which you base your request for a more favorable determination. Reconsideration will be granted only for reasons not available or not considered during the original decision.
(c)
Notification.
The SSA Claims Officer will send you a written determination on your request for reconsideration. If the SSA Claims Officer elects to reconsider your claim, the final determination on reconsideration is final and conclusive.
§ 429.211
Are there any penalties for filing false claims?
A person who files a false claim or makes a false or fraudulent statement in a claim against the United States may be imprisoned for not more than 5 years (18 U.S.C. 287, 1001). In addition, that person may be liable for a civil penalty of not less than $5,000 and not more than $10,000 and damages of triple the loss or damage sustained by the United States, as well as the costs of a civil action brought to recover any penalty or damages (31 U.S.C. 3729).
Pt. 430

# PART 430—PERSONNEL

# Authority:
Section 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5))

# Indemnification of SSA Employees
§ 430.101
Policy.
(a) The Social Security Administration (SSA) may indemnify, in whole or in part, its employees (which for the purpose of this regulation includes former employees) for any verdict, judgment or other monetary award which is rendered against any such employee, provided that the conduct giving rise to the verdict, judgment or award was taken within the scope of his or her employment with SSA and that such indemnification is in the interest of the United States, as determined by the Commissioner, or his or her designee, in his or her discretion.
(b) SSA may settle or compromise a personal damage claim against its employee by the payment of available funds, at any time, provided the alleged conduct giving rise to the personal damage claim was taken within the scope of employment and that such settlement or compromise is in the interest of the United States, as determined by the Commissioner, or his or her designee, in his or her discretion.
(c) Absent exceptional circumstances, as determined by the Commissioner or his or her designee, SSA will not entertain a request either to agree to indemnify or to settle a personal damage claim before entry of an adverse verdict, judgment or monetary award.
(d) When an employee of SSA becomes aware that an action has been filed against the employee in his or her individual capacity as a result of conduct taken within the scope of his or her employment, the employee should immediately notify SSA that such an action is pending.
(e) The employee may, thereafter, request either:
(1) Indemnification to satisfy a verdict, judgment or award entered against the employee; or
(2) Payment to satisfy the requirements of a settlement proposal. The employee shall submit a written request, with documentation including copies of the verdict, judgment, award or settlement proposal, as appropriate, to the Deputy Commissioner or other designated official, who shall thereupon submit to the General Counsel, in a timely manner, a recommended disposition of the request. The General Counsel shall also seek the views of the Department of Justice. The General Counsel shall forward the request, the Deputy Commissioner's or other designated official's recommended disposition, and the General Counsel's recommendation to the Commissioner or his or her designee for decision.
(f) Any payment under this section either to indemnify an SSA employee or to settle a personal damage claim shall be contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds.
[62 FR 39935, July 25, 1997]
Pt. 431

# PART 431—PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS
Sec.
431.101
To what does this policy apply?
431.102
Definitions for purposes of this policy.
431.103
Assuring compliance with this policy—research conducted or supported by any Federal department or agency.
431.104
Exempt research.
431.105-431.106
[Reserved]
431.107
IRB membership.
431.108
IRB functions and operations.
431.109
IRB review of research.
431.110
Expedited review procedures for certain kinds of research involving no more than minimal risk, and for minor changes in approved research.
431.111
Criteria for IRB approval of research.
431.112
Review by institution.
431.113
Suspension or termination of IRB approval of research.
431.114
Cooperative research.
431.115
IRB records.
431.116
General requirements for informed consent.
431.117
Documentation of informed consent.
431.118
Applications and proposals lacking definite plans for involvement of human subjects.
431.119
Research undertaken without the intention of involving human subjects.
431.120
Evaluation and disposition of applications and proposals for research to be conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency.
431.121
[Reserved]
431.122
Use of Federal funds.
431.123
Early termination of research support: Evaluation of applications and proposals.
431.124
Conditions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 42 U.S.C. 289(a).

# Source:
82 FR 7270, Jan. 19, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 431.101
To what does this policy apply?
(a) Except as detailed in § 431.104, this policy applies to all research involving human subjects conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by any Federal department or agency that takes appropriate administrative action to make the policy applicable to such research. This includes research conducted by Federal civilian employees or military personnel, except that each department or agency head may adopt such procedural modifications as may be appropriate from an administrative standpoint. It also includes research conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by the Federal Government outside the United States. Institutions that are engaged in research described in this paragraph and institutional review boards (IRBs) reviewing research that is subject to this policy must comply with this policy.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Department or agency heads retain final judgment as to whether a particular activity is covered by this
policy and this judgment shall be exercised consistent with the ethical principles of the Belmont Report.
62
62
The National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research.- Belmont Report. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 1979.
(d) Department or agency heads may require that specific research activities or classes of research activities conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by the Federal department or agency but not otherwise covered by this policy comply with some or all of the requirements of this policy.
(e) Compliance with this policy requires compliance with pertinent federal laws or regulations that provide additional protections for human subjects.
(f) This policy does not affect any state or local laws or regulations (including tribal law passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe) that may otherwise be applicable and that provide additional protections for human subjects.
(g) This policy does not affect any foreign laws or regulations that may otherwise be applicable and that provide additional protections to human subjects of research.
(h) When research covered by this policy takes place in foreign countries, procedures normally followed in the foreign countries to protect human subjects may differ from those set forth in this policy. In these circumstances, if a department or agency head determines that the procedures prescribed by the institution afford protections that are at least equivalent to those provided in this policy, the department or agency head may approve the substitution of the foreign procedures in lieu of the procedural requirements provided in this policy. Except when otherwise required by statute, Executive Order, or the department or agency head, notices of these actions as they occur will be published in the
Federal Register
or will be otherwise published as provided in department or agency procedures.
(i) Unless otherwise required by law, department or agency heads may waive the applicability of some or all of the provisions of this policy to specific research activities or classes of research activities otherwise covered by this policy, provided the alternative procedures to be followed are consistent with the principles of the Belmont Report.
63
Except when otherwise required by statute or Executive Order, the department or agency head shall forward advance notices of these actions to the Office for Human Research Protections, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), or any successor office, or to the equivalent office within the appropriate Federal department or agency, and shall also publish them in the
Federal Register
or in such other manner as provided in department or agency procedures. The waiver notice must include a statement that identifies the conditions under which the waiver will be applied and a justification as to why the waiver is appropriate for the research, including how the decision is consistent with the principles of the Belmont Report.
63
Id.
(j) Federal guidance on the requirements of this policy shall be issued only after consultation, for the purpose of harmonization (to the extent appropriate), with other Federal departments and agencies that have adopted this policy, unless such consultation is not feasible.
(k) [Reserved]
(l) Compliance dates and transition provisions:
(1)
Pre-2018 Requirements.
For purposes of this section, the
pre-2018 Requirements
means this subpart as published in the 2016 edition of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(2)
2018 Requirements.
For purposes of this section, the
2018 Requirements
means the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects requirements contained in this part. The general compliance date for the 2018 Requirements is January 21, 2019. The compliance date for § 431.114(b) (cooperative research) of the 2018 Requirements is January 20, 2020.
(3)
Research subject to pre-2018 requirements.
The pre-2018 Requirements shall apply to the following research, unless
the research is transitioning to comply with the 2018 Requirements in accordance with paragraph (l)(4) of this section:
(i) Research initially approved by an IRB under the pre-2018 Requirements before January 21, 2019;
(ii) Research for which IRB review was waived pursuant to § 431.101(i) of the pre-2018 Requirements before January 21, 2019; and
(iii) Research for which a determination was made that the research was exempt under § 431.101(b) of the pre-2018 Requirements before January 21, 2019.
(4)
Transitioning research.
If, on or after July 19, 2018, an institution planning or engaged in research otherwise covered by paragraph (l)(3) of this section determines that such research instead will transition to comply with the 2018 Requirements, the institution or an IRB must document and date such determination.
(i) If the determination to transition is documented between July 19, 2018, and January 20, 2019, the research shall:
(A) Beginning on the date of such documentation through January 20, 2019, comply with the pre-2018 Requirements, except that the research shall comply with the following:
(
1
) Section 431.102(l) of the 2018 Requirements (definition of research) (instead of § 431.102(d) of the pre-2018 Requirements);
(
2
) Section 431.103(d) of the 2018 Requirements (revised certification requirement that eliminates IRB review of application or proposal) (instead of § 431.103(f) of the pre-2018 Requirements); and
(
3
) Section 431.109(f)(1)(i) and (iii) of the 2018 Requirements (exceptions to mandated continuing review) (instead of § 431.103(b), as related to the requirement for continuing review, and in addition to § 431.109, of the pre-2018 Requirements); and
(B) Beginning on January 21, 2019, comply with the 2018 Requirements.
(ii) If the determination to transition is documented on or after January 21, 2019, the research shall, beginning on the date of such documentation, comply with the 2018 Requirements.
(5)
Research subject to 2018 Requirements.
The 2018 Requirements shall apply to the following research:
(i) Research initially approved by an IRB on or after January 21, 2019;
(ii) Research for which IRB review is waived pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section on or after January 21, 2019; and
(iii) Research for which a determination is made that the research is exempt on or after January 21, 2019.
(m) Severability: Any provision of this part held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, shall be construed so as to continue to give maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding shall be one of utter invalidity or unenforceability, in which event the provision shall be severable from this part and shall not affect the remainder thereof or the application of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other dissimilar circumstances.
[82 FR 7270, Jan. 19, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 28513, June 19, 2018]
§ 431.102
Definitions for purposes of this policy.
(a)
Certification
means the official notification by the institution to the supporting Federal department or agency component, in accordance with the requirements of this policy, that a research project or activity involving human subjects has been reviewed and approved by an IRB in accordance with an approved assurance.
(b)
Clinical trial
means a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions (which may include placebo or other control) to evaluate the effects of the interventions on biomedical or behavioral health-related outcomes.
(c)
Department or agency head
means the head of any Federal department or agency, for example, the Secretary of HHS, and any other officer or employee of any Federal department or agency to whom the authority provided by these regulations to the department or agency head has been delegated.
(d)
Federal department or agency
refers to a federal department or agency (the
department or agency itself rather than its bureaus, offices or divisions) that takes appropriate administrative action to make this policy applicable to the research involving human subjects it conducts, supports, or otherwise regulates (e.g., the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Defense, or the Central Intelligence Agency).
(e)(1)
Human subject
means a living individual about whom an investigator (whether professional or student) conducting research:
(i) Obtains information or biospecimens through intervention or interaction with the individual, and uses, studies, or analyzes the information or biospecimens; or (ii) Obtains, uses, studies, analyzes, or generates identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
(2)
Intervention
includes both physical procedures by which information or biospecimens are gathered (e.g., venipuncture) and manipulations of the subject or the subject's environment that are performed for research purposes.
(3)
Interaction
includes communication or interpersonal contact between investigator and subject.
(4)
Private information
includes information about behavior that occurs in a context in which an individual can reasonably expect that no observation or recording is taking place, and information that has been provided for specific purposes by an individual and that the individual can reasonably expect will not be made public (e.g., a medical record).
(5)
Identifiable private information
is private information for which the identity of the subject is or may readily be ascertained by the investigator or associated with the information.
(6)
An identifiable biospecimen
is a biospecimen for which the identity of the subject is or may readily be ascertained by the investigator or associated with the biospecimen.
(7) Federal departments or agencies implementing this policy shall:
(i) Upon consultation with appropriate experts (including experts in data matching and re-identification), reexamine the meaning of “identifiable private information,” as defined in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, and “identifiable biospecimen,” as defined in paragraph (e)(6) of this section. This reexamination shall take place within 1 year and regularly thereafter (at least every 4 years). This process will be conducted by collaboration among the Federal departments and agencies implementing this policy. If appropriate and permitted by law, such Federal departments and agencies may alter the interpretation of these terms, including through the use of guidance.
(ii) Upon consultation with appropriate experts, assess whether there are analytic technologies or techniques that should be considered by investigators to generate “identifiable private information,” as defined in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, or an “identifiable biospecimen,” as defined in paragraph (e)(6) of this section. This assessment shall take place within 1 year and regularly thereafter (at least every 4 years). This process will be conducted by collaboration among the Federal departments and agencies implementing this policy. Any such technologies or techniques will be included on a list of technologies or techniques that produce identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens. This list will be published in the
Federal Register
after notice and an opportunity for public comment. The Secretary, HHS, shall maintain the list on a publicly accessible Web site.
(f)
Institution
means any public or private entity, or department or agency (including federal, state, and other agencies).
(g)
IRB
means an institutional review board established in accord with and for the purposes expressed in this policy.
(h)
IRB approval
means the determination of the IRB that the research has been reviewed and may be conducted at an institution within the constraints set forth by the IRB and by other institutional and federal requirements.
(i)
Legally authorized representative
means an individual or judicial or other body authorized under applicable law to consent on behalf of a prospective subject to the subject's participation in the procedure(s) involved in the research. If there is no applicable law
addressing this issue,
legally authorized representative
means an individual recognized by institutional policy as acceptable for providing consent in the nonresearch context on behalf of the prospective subject to the subject's participation in the procedure(s) involved in the research.
(j)
Minimal risk
means that the probability and magnitude of harm or discomfort anticipated in the research are not greater in and of themselves than those ordinarily encountered in daily life or during the performance of routine physical or psychological examinations or tests.
(k)
Public health authority
means an agency or authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision of a state or territory, an Indian tribe, or a foreign government, or a person or entity acting under a grant of authority from or contract with such public agency, including the employees or agents of such public agency or its contractors or persons or entities to whom it has granted authority, that is responsible for public health matters as part of its official mandate.
(l)
Research
means a systematic investigation, including research development, testing, and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge. Activities that meet this definition constitute research for purposes of this policy, whether or not they are conducted or supported under a program that is considered research for other purposes. For example, some demonstration and service programs may include research activities. For purposes of this part, the following activities are deemed not to be research:
(1) Scholarly and journalistic activities (e.g., oral history, journalism, biography, literary criticism, legal research, and historical scholarship), including the collection and use of information, that focus directly on the specific individuals about whom the information is collected.
(2) Public health surveillance activities, including the collection and testing of information or biospecimens, conducted, supported, requested, ordered, required, or authorized by a public health authority. Such activities are limited to those necessary to allow a public health authority to identify, monitor, assess, or investigate potential public health signals, onsets of disease outbreaks, or conditions of public health importance (including trends, signals, risk factors, patterns in diseases, or increases in injuries from using consumer products). Such activities include those associated with providing timely situational awareness and priority setting during the course of an event or crisis that threatens public health (including natural or man-made disasters).
(3) Collection and analysis of information, biospecimens, or records by or for a criminal justice agency for activities authorized by law or court order solely for criminal justice or criminal investigative purposes.
(4) Authorized operational activities (as determined by each agency) in support of intelligence, homeland security, defense, or other national security missions.
(m)
Written,
or
in writing,
for purposes of this part, refers to writing on a tangible medium (e.g., paper) or in an electronic format.
§ 431.103
Assuring compliance with this policy—research conducted or supported by any Federal department or agency.
(a) Each institution engaged in research that is covered by this policy, with the exception of research eligible for exemption under § 431.104, and that is conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, shall provide written assurance satisfactory to the department or agency head that it will comply with the requirements of this policy. In lieu of requiring submission of an assurance, individual department or agency heads shall accept the existence of a current assurance, appropriate for the research in question, on file with the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office, and approved for Federal-wide use by that office. When the existence of an HHS-approved assurance is accepted in lieu of requiring submission of an assurance, reports (except certification) required by this policy to be made to department and agency heads shall also be made to the Office
for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office. Federal departments and agencies will conduct or support research covered by this policy only if the institution has provided an assurance that it will comply with the requirements of this policy, as provided in this section, and only if the institution has certified to the department or agency head that the research has been reviewed and approved by an IRB (if such certification is required by § 431.103(d)).
(b) The assurance shall be executed by an individual authorized to act for the institution and to assume on behalf of the institution the obligations imposed by this policy and shall be filed in such form and manner as the department or agency head prescribes.
(c) The department or agency head may limit the period during which any assurance shall remain effective or otherwise condition or restrict the assurance.
(d) Certification is required when the research is supported by a Federal department or agency and not otherwise waived under § 431.101(i) or exempted under § 431.104. For such research, institutions shall certify that each proposed research study covered by the assurance and this section has been reviewed and approved by the IRB. Such certification must be submitted as prescribed by the Federal department or agency component supporting the research. Under no condition shall research covered by this section be initiated prior to receipt of the certification that the research has been reviewed and approved by the IRB.
(e) For nonexempt research involving human subjects covered by this policy (or exempt research for which limited IRB review takes place pursuant to § 431.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), or (d)(7) or (8)) that takes place at an institution in which IRB oversight is conducted by an IRB that is not operated by the institution, the institution and the organization operating the IRB shall document the institution's reliance on the IRB for oversight of the research and the responsibilities that each entity will undertake to ensure compliance with the requirements of this policy (e.g., in a written agreement between the institution and the IRB, by implementation of an institution-wide policy directive providing the allocation of responsibilities between the institution and an IRB that is not affiliated with the institution, or as set forth in a research protocol).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 431.104
Exempt research.
(a) Unless otherwise required by law or by department or agency heads, research activities in which the only involvement of human subjects will be in one or more of the categories in paragraph (d) of this section are exempt from the requirements of this policy, except that such activities must comply with the requirements of this section and as specified in each category.
(b) Use of the exemption categories for research subject to the requirements of subparts B, C, and D: Application of the exemption categories to research subject to the requirements of 45 CFR part 46, subparts B, C, and D, is as follows:
(1)
Subpart B.
Each of the exemptions at this section may be applied to research subject to subpart B if the conditions of the exemption are met.
(2)
Subpart C.
The exemptions at this section do not apply to research subject to subpart C, except for research aimed at involving a broader subject population that only incidentally includes prisoners.
(3)
Subpart D.
The exemptions at paragraphs (d)(1), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) of this section may be applied to research subject to subpart D if the conditions of the exemption are met. Paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section only may apply to research subject to subpart D involving educational tests or the observation of public behavior when the investigator(s) do not participate in the activities being observed. Paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section may not be applied to research subject to subpart D.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Except as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the following categories of human subjects research are exempt from this policy:
(1) Research, conducted in established or commonly accepted educational settings, that specifically involves normal educational practices that are not likely to adversely impact students' opportunity to learn required educational content or the assessment of educators who provide instruction. This includes most research on regular and special education instructional strategies, and research on the effectiveness of or the comparison among instructional techniques, curricula, or classroom management methods.
(2) Research that only includes interactions involving educational tests (cognitive, diagnostic, aptitude, achievement), survey procedures, interview procedures, or observation of public behavior (including visual or auditory recording) if at least one of the following criteria is met:
(i) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects cannot readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects;
(ii) Any disclosure of the human subjects' responses outside the research would not reasonably place the subjects at risk of criminal or civil liability or be damaging to the subjects' financial standing, employability, educational advancement, or reputation; or
(iii) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects can readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects, and an IRB conducts a limited IRB review to make the determination required by § 431.111(a)(7).
(3)(i) Research involving benign behavioral interventions in conjunction with the collection of information from an adult subject through verbal or written responses (including data entry) or audiovisual recording if the subject prospectively agrees to the intervention and information collection and at least one of the following criteria is met:
(A) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects cannot readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects;
(B) Any disclosure of the human subjects' responses outside the research would not reasonably place the subjects at risk of criminal or civil liability or be damaging to the subjects' financial standing, employability, educational advancement, or reputation; or
(C) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects can readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects, and an IRB conducts a limited IRB review to make the determination required by § 431.111(a)(7).
(ii) For the purpose of this provision, benign behavioral interventions are brief in duration, harmless, painless, not physically invasive, not likely to have a significant adverse lasting impact on the subjects, and the investigator has no reason to think the subjects will find the interventions offensive or embarrassing. Provided all such criteria are met, examples of such benign behavioral interventions would include having the subjects play an online game, having them solve puzzles under various noise conditions, or having them decide how to allocate a nominal amount of received cash between themselves and someone else.
(iii) If the research involves deceiving the subjects regarding the nature or purposes of the research, this exemption is not applicable unless the subject authorizes the deception through a prospective agreement to participate in research in circumstances in which the subject is informed that he or she will be unaware of or misled regarding the nature or purposes of the research.
(4) Secondary research for which consent is not required: Secondary research uses of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, if at least one of the following criteria is met:
(i) The identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens are publicly available;
(ii) Information, which may include information about biospecimens, is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human
subjects cannot readily be ascertained directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects, the investigator does not contact the subjects, and the investigator will not re-identify subjects;
(iii) The research involves only information collection and analysis involving the investigator's use of identifiable health information when that use is regulated under 45 CFR parts 160 and 164, subparts A and E, for the purposes of “health care operations” or “research” as those terms are defined at 45 CFR 164.501 or for “public health activities and purposes” as described under 45 CFR 164.512(b); or
(iv) The research is conducted by, or on behalf of, a Federal department or agency using government-generated or government-collected information obtained for nonresearch activities, if the research generates identifiable private information that is or will be maintained on information technology that is subject to and in compliance with section 208(b) of the E-Government Act of 2002, 44 U.S.C. 3501 note, if all of the identifiable private information collected, used, or generated as part of the activity will be maintained in systems of records subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and, if applicable, the information used in the research was collected subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
(5) Research and demonstration projects that are conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, or otherwise subject to the approval of department or agency heads (or the approval of the heads of bureaus or other subordinate agencies that have been delegated authority to conduct the research and demonstration projects), and that are designed to study, evaluate, improve, or otherwise examine public benefit or service programs, including procedures for obtaining benefits or services under those programs, possible changes in or alternatives to those programs or procedures, or possible changes in methods or levels of payment for benefits or services under those programs. Such projects include, but are not limited to, internal studies by Federal employees, and studies under contracts or consulting arrangements, cooperative agreements, or grants. Exempt projects also include waivers of otherwise mandatory requirements using authorities such as sections 1115 and 1115A of the Social Security Act, as amended.
(i) Each Federal department or agency conducting or supporting the research and demonstration projects must establish, on a publicly accessible Federal Web site or in such other manner as the department or agency head may determine, a list of the research and demonstration projects that the Federal department or agency conducts or supports under this provision. The research or demonstration project must be published on this list prior to commencing the research involving human subjects.
(ii) [Reserved]
(6) Taste and food quality evaluation and consumer acceptance studies:
(i) If wholesome foods without additives are consumed, or
(ii) If a food is consumed that contains a food ingredient at or below the level and for a use found to be safe, or agricultural chemical or environmental contaminant at or below the level found to be safe, by the Food and Drug Administration or approved by the Environmental Protection Agency or the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(7) Storage or maintenance for secondary research for which broad consent is required: Storage or maintenance of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens for potential secondary research use if an IRB conducts a limited IRB review and makes the determinations required by § 431.111(a)(8).
(8) Secondary research for which broad consent is required: Research involving the use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens for secondary research use, if the following criteria are met:
(i) Broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens was obtained in accordance with § 431.116(a)(1) through (4), (a)(6), and (d);
(ii) Documentation of informed consent or waiver of documentation of
consent was obtained in accordance with § 431.117;
(iii) An IRB conducts a limited IRB review and makes the determination required by § 431.111(a)(7) and makes the determination that the research to be conducted is within the scope of the broad consent referenced in paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section; and (iv) The investigator does not include returning individual research results to subjects as part of the study plan. This provision does not prevent an investigator from abiding by any legal requirements to return individual research results.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§§ 431.105-431.106
[Reserved]
§ 431.107
IRB membership.
(a) Each IRB shall have at least five members, with varying backgrounds to promote complete and adequate review of research activities commonly conducted by the institution. The IRB shall be sufficiently qualified through the experience and expertise of its members (professional competence), and the diversity of its members, including race, gender, and cultural backgrounds and sensitivity to such issues as community attitudes, to promote respect for its advice and counsel in safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects. The IRB shall be able to ascertain the acceptability of proposed research in terms of institutional commitments (including policies and resources) and regulations, applicable law, and standards of professional conduct and practice. The IRB shall therefore include persons knowledgeable in these areas. If an IRB regularly reviews research that involves a category of subjects that is vulnerable to coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons, consideration shall be given to the inclusion of one or more individuals who are knowledgeable about and experienced in working with these categories of subjects.
(b) Each IRB shall include at least one member whose primary concerns are in scientific areas and at least one member whose primary concerns are in nonscientific areas.
(c) Each IRB shall include at least one member who is not otherwise affiliated with the institution and who is not part of the immediate family of a person who is affiliated with the institution.
(d) No IRB may have a member participate in the IRB's initial or continuing review of any project in which the member has a conflicting interest, except to provide information requested by the IRB.
(e) An IRB may, in its discretion, invite individuals with competence in special areas to assist in the review of issues that require expertise beyond or in addition to that available on the IRB. These individuals may not vote with the IRB.
§ 431.108
IRB functions and operations.
(a) In order to fulfill the requirements of this policy each IRB shall:
(1) Have access to meeting space and sufficient staff to support the IRB's review and recordkeeping duties;
(2) Prepare and maintain a current list of the IRB members identified by name; earned degrees; representative capacity; indications of experience such as board certifications or licenses sufficient to describe each member's chief anticipated contributions to IRB deliberations; and any employment or other relationship between each member and the institution, for example, full-time employee, part-time employee, member of governing panel or board, stockholder, paid or unpaid consultant;
(3) Establish and follow written procedures for:
(i) Conducting its initial and continuing review of research and for reporting its findings and actions to the investigator and the institution;
(ii) Determining which projects require review more often than annually and which projects need verification from sources other than the investigators that no material changes have occurred since previous IRB review; and
(iii) Ensuring prompt reporting to the IRB of proposed changes in a research activity, and for ensuring that investigators will conduct the research
activity in accordance with the terms of the IRB approval until any proposed changes have been reviewed and approved by the IRB, except when necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards to the subject.
(4) Establish and follow written procedures for ensuring prompt reporting to the IRB; appropriate institutional officials; the department or agency head; and the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office, or the equivalent office within the appropriate Federal department or agency of
(i) Any unanticipated problems involving risks to subjects or others or any serious or continuing noncompliance with this policy or the requirements or determinations of the IRB; and
(ii) Any suspension or termination of IRB approval.
(b) Except when an expedited review procedure is used (as described in § 431.110), an IRB must review proposed research at convened meetings at which a majority of the members of the IRB are present, including at least one member whose primary concerns are in nonscientific areas. In order for the research to be approved, it shall receive the approval of a majority of those members present at the meeting.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 431.109
IRB review of research.
(a) An IRB shall review and have authority to approve, require modifications in (to secure approval), or disapprove all research activities covered by this policy, including exempt research activities under § 431.104 for which limited IRB review is a condition of exemption (under § 431.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), and (d)(7), and (8)).
(b) An IRB shall require that information given to subjects (or legally authorized representatives, when appropriate) as part of informed consent is in accordance with § 431.116. The IRB may require that information, in addition to that specifically mentioned in § 431.116, be given to the subjects when in the IRB's judgment the information would meaningfully add to the protection of the rights and welfare of subjects.
(c) An IRB shall require documentation of informed consent or may waive documentation in accordance with § 431.117.
(d) An IRB shall notify investigators and the institution in writing of its decision to approve or disapprove the proposed research activity, or of modifications required to secure IRB approval of the research activity. If the IRB decides to disapprove a research activity, it shall include in its written notification a statement of the reasons for its decision and give the investigator an opportunity to respond in person or in writing.
(e) An IRB shall conduct continuing review of research requiring review by the convened IRB at intervals appropriate to the degree of risk, not less than once per year, except as described in § 431.109(f).
(f)(1) Unless an IRB determines otherwise, continuing review of research is not required in the following circumstances:
(i) Research eligible for expedited review in accordance with § 431.110;
(ii) Research reviewed by the IRB in accordance with the limited IRB review described in § 431.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), or (d)(7) or (8);
(iii) Research that has progressed to the point that it involves only one or both of the following, which are part of the IRB-approved study:
(A) Data analysis, including analysis of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, or
(B) Accessing follow-up clinical data from procedures that subjects would undergo as part of clinical care.
(2) [Reserved]
(g) An IRB shall have authority to observe or have a third party observe the consent process and the research.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 431.110
Expedited review procedures for certain kinds of research involving no more than minimal risk, and for minor changes in approved research.
(a) The Secretary of HHS has established, and published as a Notice in the
Federal Register,
a list of categories
of research that may be reviewed by the IRB through an expedited review procedure. The Secretary will evaluate the list at least every 8 years and amend it, as appropriate, after consultation with other federal departments and agencies and after publication in the
Federal Register
for public comment. A copy of the list is available from the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office.
(b)(1) An IRB may use the expedited review procedure to review the following:
(i) Some or all of the research appearing on the list described in paragraph (a) of this section, unless the reviewer determines that the study involves more than minimal risk;
(ii) Minor changes in previously approved research during the period for which approval is authorized; or
(iii) Research for which limited IRB review is a condition of exemption under § 431.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), and (d)(7) and (8).
(2) Under an expedited review procedure, the review may be carried out by the IRB chairperson or by one or more experienced reviewers designated by the chairperson from among members of the IRB. In reviewing the research, the reviewers may exercise all of the authorities of the IRB except that the reviewers may not disapprove the research. A research activity may be disapproved only after review in accordance with the nonexpedited procedure set forth in § 431.108(b).
(c) Each IRB that uses an expedited review procedure shall adopt a method for keeping all members advised of research proposals that have been approved under the procedure.
(d) The department or agency head may restrict, suspend, terminate, or choose not to authorize an institution's or IRB's use of the expedited review procedure.
§ 431.111
Criteria for IRB approval of research.
(a) In order to approve research covered by this policy the IRB shall determine that all of the following requirements are satisfied:
(1) Risks to subjects are minimized:
(i) By using procedures that are consistent with sound research design and that do not unnecessarily expose subjects to risk, and
(ii) Whenever appropriate, by using procedures already being performed on the subjects for diagnostic or treatment purposes.
(2) Risks to subjects are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits, if any, to subjects, and the importance of the knowledge that may reasonably be expected to result. In evaluating risks and benefits, the IRB should consider only those risks and benefits that may result from the research (as distinguished from risks and benefits of therapies subjects would receive even if not participating in the research). The IRB should not consider possible long-range effects of applying knowledge gained in the research (e.g., the possible effects of the research on public policy) as among those research risks that fall within the purview of its responsibility.
(3) Selection of subjects is equitable. In making this assessment the IRB should take into account the purposes of the research and the setting in which the research will be conducted. The IRB should be particularly cognizant of the special problems of research that involves a category of subjects who are vulnerable to coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons.
(4) Informed consent will be sought from each prospective subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, in accordance with, and to the extent required by, § 431.116.
(5) Informed consent will be appropriately documented or appropriately waived in accordance with § 431.117.
(6) When appropriate, the research plan makes adequate provision for monitoring the data collected to ensure the safety of subjects.
(7) When appropriate, there are adequate provisions to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(i) The Secretary of HHS will, after consultation with the Office of Management and Budget's privacy office
and other Federal departments and agencies that have adopted this policy, issue guidance to assist IRBs in assessing what provisions are adequate to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(ii) [Reserved]
(8) For purposes of conducting the limited IRB review required by § 431.104(d)(7)), the IRB need not make the determinations at paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, and shall make the following determinations:
(i) Broad consent for storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens is obtained in accordance with the requirements of § 431.116(a)(1)-(4), (a)(6), and (d);
(ii) Broad consent is appropriately documented or waiver of documentation is appropriate, in accordance with § 431.117; and
(iii) If there is a change made for research purposes in the way the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens are stored or maintained, there are adequate provisions to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(b) When some or all of the subjects are likely to be vulnerable to coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons, additional safeguards have been included in the study to protect the rights and welfare of these subjects.
§ 431.112
Review by Institution
Research covered by this policy that has been approved by an IRB may be subject to further appropriate review and approval or disapproval by officials of the institution. However, those officials may not approve the research if it has not been approved by an IRB.
§ 431.113
Suspension or Termination of IRB Approval of Research.
An IRB shall have authority to suspend or terminate approval of research that is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB's requirements or that has been associated with unexpected serious harm to subjects. Any suspension or termination of approval shall include a statement of the reasons for the IRB's action and shall be reported promptly to the investigator, appropriate institutional officials, and the department or agency head.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 431.114
Cooperative Research.
(a) Cooperative research projects are those projects covered by this policy that involve more than one institution. In the conduct of cooperative research projects, each institution is responsible for safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects and for complying with this policy.
(b)(1) Any institution located in the United States that is engaged in cooperative research must rely upon approval by a single IRB for that portion of the research that is conducted in the United States. The reviewing IRB will be identified by the Federal department or agency supporting or conducting the research or proposed by the lead institution subject to the acceptance of the Federal department or agency supporting the research.
(2) The following research is not subject to this provision:
(i) Cooperative research for which more than single IRB review is required by law (including tribal law passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe); or
(ii) Research for which any Federal department or agency supporting or conducting the research determines and documents that the use of a single IRB is not appropriate for the particular context.
(c) For research not subject to paragraph (b) of this section, an institution participating in a cooperative project may enter into a joint review arrangement, rely on the review of another IRB, or make similar arrangements for avoiding duplication of effort.
§ 431.115
IRB Records.
(a) An institution, or when appropriate an IRB, shall prepare and maintain adequate documentation of IRB activities, including the following:
(1) Copies of all research proposals reviewed, scientific evaluations, if any,
that accompany the proposals, approved sample consent forms, progress reports submitted by investigators, and reports of injuries to subjects.
(2) Minutes of IRB meetings, which shall be in sufficient detail to show attendance at the meetings; actions taken by the IRB; the vote on these actions including the number of members voting for, against, and abstaining; the basis for requiring changes in or disapproving research; and a written summary of the discussion of controverted issues and their resolution.
(3) Records of continuing review activities, including the rationale for conducting continuing review of research that otherwise would not require continuing review as described in § 431.109(f)(1).
(4) Copies of all correspondence between the IRB and the investigators.
(5) A list of IRB members in the same detail as described in § 431.108(a)(2).
(6) Written procedures for the IRB in the same detail as described in § 431.108(a)(3) and (4).
(7) Statements of significant new findings provided to subjects, as required by § 431.116(c)(5).
(8) The rationale for an expedited reviewer's determination under § 431.110(b)(1)(i) that research appearing on the expedited review list described in § 431.110(a) is more than minimal risk.
(9) Documentation specifying the responsibilities that an institution and an organization operating an IRB each will undertake to ensure compliance with the requirements of this policy, as described in § 431.103(e).
(b) The records required by this policy shall be retained for at least 3 years, and records relating to research that is conducted shall be retained for at least 3 years after completion of the research. The institution or IRB may maintain the records in printed form, or electronically. All records shall be accessible for inspection and copying by authorized representatives of the Federal department or agency at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 431.116
General Requirements for Informed Consent.
(a)
General.
General requirements for informed consent, whether written or oral, are set forth in this paragraph and apply to consent obtained in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. Broad consent may be obtained in lieu of informed consent obtained in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section only with respect to the storage, maintenance, and secondary research uses of identifiable private information and identifiable biospecimens. Waiver or alteration of consent in research involving public benefit and service programs conducted by or subject to the approval of state or local officials is described in paragraph (e) of this section. General waiver or alteration of informed consent is described in paragraph (f) of this section. Except as provided elsewhere in this policy:
(1) Before involving a human subject in research covered by this policy, an investigator shall obtain the legally effective informed consent of the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative.
(2) An investigator shall seek informed consent only under circumstances that provide the prospective subject or the legally authorized representative sufficient opportunity to discuss and consider whether or not to participate and that minimize the possibility of coercion or undue influence.
(3) The information that is given to the subject or the legally authorized representative shall be in language understandable to the subject or the legally authorized representative.
(4) The prospective subject or the legally authorized representative must be provided with the information that a reasonable person would want to have in order to make an informed decision about whether to participate, and an opportunity to discuss that information.
(5) Except for broad consent obtained in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section:
(i) Informed consent must begin with a concise and focused presentation of the key information that is most likely
to assist a prospective subject or legally authorized representative in understanding the reasons why one might or might not want to participate in the research. This part of the informed consent must be organized and presented in a way that facilitates comprehension.
(ii) Informed consent as a whole must present information in sufficient detail relating to the research, and must be organized and presented in a way that does not merely provide lists of isolated facts, but rather facilitates the prospective subject's or legally authorized representative's understanding of the reasons why one might or might not want to participate.
(6) No informed consent may include any exculpatory language through which the subject or the legally authorized representative is made to waive or appear to waive any of the subject's legal rights, or releases or appears to release the investigator, the sponsor, the institution, or its agents from liability for negligence.
(b)
Basic elements of informed consent.
Except as provided in paragraph (d), (e), or (f) of this section, in seeking informed consent the following information shall be provided to each subject or the legally authorized representative:
(1) A statement that the study involves research, an explanation of the purposes of the research and the expected duration of the subject's participation, a description of the procedures to be followed, and identification of any procedures that are experimental;
(2) A description of any reasonably foreseeable risks or discomforts to the subject;
(3) A description of any benefits to the subject or to others that may reasonably be expected from the research;
(4) A disclosure of appropriate alternative procedures or courses of treatment, if any, that might be advantageous to the subject;
(5) A statement describing the extent, if any, to which confidentiality of records identifying the subject will be maintained;
(6) For research involving more than minimal risk, an explanation as to whether any compensation and an explanation as to whether any medical treatments are available if injury occurs and, if so, what they consist of, or where further information may be obtained;
(7) An explanation of whom to contact for answers to pertinent questions about the research and research subjects' rights, and whom to contact in the event of a research-related injury to the subject;
(8) A statement that participation is voluntary, refusal to participate will involve no penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled, and the subject may discontinue participation at any time without penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled; and
(9) One of the following statements about any research that involves the collection of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens:
(i) A statement that identifiers might be removed from the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens and that, after such removal, the information or biospecimens could be used for future research studies or distributed to another investigator for future research studies without additional informed consent from the subject or the legally authorized representative, if this might be a possibility; or
(ii) A statement that the subject's information or biospecimens collected as part of the research, even if identifiers are removed, will not be used or distributed for future research studies.
(c)
Additional elements of informed consent.
Except as provided in paragraph (d), (e), or (f) of this section, one or more of the following elements of information, when appropriate, shall also be provided to each subject or the legally authorized representative:
(1) A statement that the particular treatment or procedure may involve risks to the subject (or to the embryo or fetus, if the subject is or may become pregnant) that are currently unforeseeable;
(2) Anticipated circumstances under which the subject's participation may be terminated by the investigator without regard to the subject's or the legally authorized representative's consent;
(3) Any additional costs to the subject that may result from participation in the research;
(4) The consequences of a subject's decision to withdraw from the research and procedures for orderly termination of participation by the subject;
(5) A statement that significant new findings developed during the course of the research that may relate to the subject's willingness to continue participation will be provided to the subject;
(6) The approximate number of subjects involved in the study;
(7) A statement that the subject's biospecimens (even if identifiers are removed) may be used for commercial profit and whether the subject will or will not share in this commercial profit;
(8) A statement regarding whether clinically relevant research results, including individual research results, will be disclosed to subjects, and if so, under what conditions; and
(9) For research involving biospecimens, whether the research will (if known) or might include whole genome sequencing (
i.e.,
sequencing of a human germline or somatic specimen with the intent to generate the genome or exome sequence of that specimen).
(d)
Elements of broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
Broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens (collected for either research studies other than the proposed research or nonresearch purposes) is permitted as an alternative to the informed consent requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. If the subject or the legally authorized representative is asked to provide broad consent, the following shall be provided to each subject or the subject's legally authorized representative:
(1) The information required in paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(5), and (b)(8) and, when appropriate, (c)(7) and (9) of this section;
(2) A general description of the types of research that may be conducted with the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens. This description must include sufficient information such that a reasonable person would expect that the broad consent would permit the types of research conducted;
(3) A description of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens that might be used in research, whether sharing of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens might occur, and the types of institutions or researchers that might conduct research with the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens;
(4) A description of the period of time that the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens may be stored and maintained (which period of time could be indefinite), and a description of the period of time that the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens may be used for research purposes (which period of time could be indefinite);
(5) Unless the subject or legally authorized representative will be provided details about specific research studies, a statement that they will not be informed of the details of any specific research studies that might be conducted using the subject's identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, including the purposes of the research, and that they might have chosen not to consent to some of those specific research studies;
(6) Unless it is known that clinically relevant research results, including individual research results, will be disclosed to the subject in all circumstances, a statement that such results may not be disclosed to the subject; and
(7) An explanation of whom to contact for answers to questions about the subject's rights and about storage and use of the subject's identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, and whom to contact in the event of a research-related harm.
(e)
Waiver or alteration of consent in research involving public benefit and service programs conducted by or subject to the approval of state or local officials
—(1)
Waiver.
An IRB may waive the requirement to obtain informed consent for research under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, provided the IRB
satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. If an individual was asked to provide broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens in accordance with the requirements at paragraph (d) of this section, and refused to consent, an IRB cannot waive consent for the storage, maintenance, or secondary research use of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
(2)
Alteration.
An IRB may approve a consent procedure that omits some, or alters some or all, of the elements of informed consent set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. An IRB may not omit or alter any of the requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section. If a broad consent procedure is used, an IRB may not omit or alter any of the elements required under paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Requirements for waiver and alteration.
In order for an IRB to waive or alter consent as described in this subsection, the IRB must find and document that:
(i) The research or demonstration project is to be conducted by or subject to the approval of state or local government officials and is designed to study, evaluate, or otherwise examine:
(A) Public benefit or service programs;
(B) Procedures for obtaining benefits or services under those programs;
(C) Possible changes in or alternatives to those programs or procedures; or
(D) Possible changes in methods or levels of payment for benefits or services under those programs; and
(ii) The research could not practicably be carried out without the waiver or alteration.
(f)
General waiver or alteration of consent
—(1)
Waiver.
An IRB may waive the requirement to obtain informed consent for research under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section. If an individual was asked to provide broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens in accordance with the requirements at paragraph (d) of this section, and refused to consent, an IRB cannot waive consent for the storage, maintenance, or secondary research use of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
(2)
Alteration.
An IRB may approve a consent procedure that omits some, or alters some or all, of the elements of informed consent set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section. An IRB may not omit or alter any of the requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section. If a broad consent procedure is used, an IRB may not omit or alter any of the elements required under paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Requirements for waiver and alteration.
In order for an IRB to waive or alter consent as described in this subsection, the IRB must find and document that:
(i) The research involves no more than minimal risk to the subjects;
(ii) The research could not practicably be carried out without the requested waiver or alteration;
(iii) If the research involves using identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, the research could not practicably be carried out without using such information or biospecimens in an identifiable format;
(iv) The waiver or alteration will not adversely affect the rights and welfare of the subjects; and
(v) Whenever appropriate, the subjects or legally authorized representatives will be provided with additional pertinent information after participation.
(g)
Screening, recruiting, or determining eligibility.
An IRB may approve a research proposal in which an investigator will obtain information or biospecimens for the purpose of screening, recruiting, or determining the eligibility of prospective subjects without the informed consent of the prospective subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, if either of the following conditions are met:
(1) The investigator will obtain information through oral or written communication with the prospective subject or legally authorized representative, or
(2) The investigator will obtain identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens by accessing records or stored identifiable biospecimens.
(h)
Posting of clinical trial consent form.
(1) For each clinical trial conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, one IRB-approved informed consent form used to enroll subjects must be posted by the awardee or the Federal department or agency component conducting the trial on a publicly available Federal Web site that will be established as a repository for such informed consent forms.
(2) If the Federal department or agency supporting or conducting the clinical trial determines that certain information should not be made publicly available on a Federal Web site (e.g. confidential commercial information), such Federal department or agency may permit or require redactions to the information posted.
(3) The informed consent form must be posted on the Federal Web site after the clinical trial is closed to recruitment, and no later than 60 days after the last study visit by any subject, as required by the protocol.
(i)
Preemption.
The informed consent requirements in this policy are not intended to preempt any applicable Federal, state, or local laws (including tribal laws passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe) that require additional information to be disclosed in order for informed consent to be legally effective.
(j)
Emergency medical care.
Nothing in this policy is intended to limit the authority of a physician to provide emergency medical care, to the extent the physician is permitted to do so under applicable Federal, state, or local law (including tribal law passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 431.117
Documentation of informed consent.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, informed consent shall be documented by the use of a written informed consent form approved by the IRB and signed (including in an electronic format) by the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative. A written copy shall be given to the person signing the informed consent form.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the informed consent form may be either of the following:
(1) A written informed consent form that meets the requirements of § 431.116. The investigator shall give either the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative adequate opportunity to read the informed consent form before it is signed; alternatively, this form may be read to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative.
(2) A short form written informed consent form stating that the elements of informed consent required by § 431.116 have been presented orally to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, and that the key information required by § 431.116(a)(5)(i) was presented first to the subject, before other information, if any, was provided. The IRB shall approve a written summary of what is to be said to the subject or the legally authorized representative. When this method is used, there shall be a witness to the oral presentation. Only the short form itself is to be signed by the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative. However, the witness shall sign both the short form and a copy of the summary, and the person actually obtaining consent shall sign a copy of the summary. A copy of the summary shall be given to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, in addition to a copy of the short form.
(c)(1) An IRB may waive the requirement for the investigator to obtain a signed informed consent form for some or all subjects if it finds any of the following:
(i) That the only record linking the subject and the research would be the
informed consent form and the principal risk would be potential harm resulting from a breach of confidentiality. Each subject (or legally authorized representative) will be asked whether the subject wants documentation linking the subject with the research, and the subject's wishes will govern;
(ii) That the research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to subjects and involves no procedures for which written consent is normally required outside of the research context; or
(iii) If the subjects or legally authorized representatives are members of a distinct cultural group or community in which signing forms is not the norm, that the research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to subjects and provided there is an appropriate alternative mechanism for documenting that informed consent was obtained.
(2) In cases in which the documentation requirement is waived, the IRB may require the investigator to provide subjects or legally authorized representatives with a written statement regarding the research.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 431.118
Applications and proposals lacking definite plans for involvement of human subjects.
Certain types of applications for grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts are submitted to Federal departments or agencies with the knowledge that subjects may be involved within the period of support, but definite plans would not normally be set forth in the application or proposal. These include activities such as institutional type grants when selection of specific projects is the institution's responsibility; research training grants in which the activities involving subjects remain to be selected; and projects in which human subjects' involvement will depend upon completion of instruments, prior animal studies, or purification of compounds. Except for research waived under § 431.101(i) or exempted under § 431.104, no human subjects may be involved in any project supported by these awards until the project has been reviewed and approved by the IRB, as provided in this policy, and certification submitted, by the institution, to the Federal department or agency component supporting the research.
§ 431.119
Research undertaken without the intention of involving human subjects.
Except for research waived under § 431.101(i) or exempted under § 431.104, in the event research is undertaken without the intention of involving human subjects, but it is later proposed to involve human subjects in the research, the research shall first be reviewed and approved by an IRB, as provided in this policy, a certification submitted by the institution to the Federal department or agency component supporting the research, and final approval given to the proposed change by the Federal department or agency component.
§ 431.120
Evaluation and disposition of applications and proposals for research to be conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency.
(a) The department or agency head will evaluate all applications and proposals involving human subjects submitted to the Federal department or agency through such officers and employees of the Federal department or agency and such experts and consultants as the department or agency head determines to be appropriate. This evaluation will take into consideration the risks to the subjects, the adequacy of protection against these risks, the potential benefits of the research to the subjects and others, and the importance of the knowledge gained or to be gained.
(b) On the basis of this evaluation, the department or agency head may approve or disapprove the application or proposal, or enter into negotiations to develop an approvable one.
§ 431.121
[Reserved]
§ 431.122
Use of Federal funds.
Federal funds administered by a Federal department or agency may not be expended for research involving human subjects unless the requirements of this policy have been satisfied.
§ 431.123
Early termination of research support: Evaluation of applications and proposals.
(a) The department or agency head may require that Federal department or agency support for any project be terminated or suspended in the manner prescribed in applicable program requirements, when the department or agency head finds an institution has materially failed to comply with the terms of this policy.
(b) In making decisions about supporting or approving applications or proposals covered by this policy the department or agency head may take into account, in addition to all other eligibility requirements and program criteria, factors such as whether the applicant has been subject to a termination or suspension under paragraph (a) of this section and whether the applicant or the person or persons who would direct or has/have directed the scientific and technical aspects of an activity has/have, in the judgment of the department or agency head, materially failed to discharge responsibility for the protection of the rights and welfare of human subjects (whether or not the research was subject to federal regulation).
§ 431.124
Conditions.
With respect to any research project or any class of research projects the department or agency head of either the conducting or the supporting Federal department or agency may impose additional conditions prior to or at the time of approval when in the judgment of the department or agency head additional conditions are necessary for the protection of human subjects.
PARTS 432-437 [RESERVED]
Pt. 438

# PART 438—RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
438.100
Conditions on use of funds.
438.105
Definitions.
438.110
Certification and disclosure.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
438.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
438.205
Professional and technical services.
438.210
Reporting.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other than Own Employees
438.300
Professional and technical services.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
438.400
Penalties.
438.405
Penalty procedures.
438.410
Enforcement.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
438.500
Secretary of Defense.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
438.600
Semi-annual compilation.
438.605
Inspector General report.
Appendix A to Part 438—Certification Regarding Lobbying
Appendix B to Part 438—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
68 FR 28745, May 27, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 438.100
Conditions on use of funds.
(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of SSA, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from SSA a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement must file with SSA a certification, set forth in appendix A to this part, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from SSA a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement
must file with SSA a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B to this part, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using non-appropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from SSA a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan must file with SSA a statement, set forth in appendix A to this part, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of SSA, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from SSA a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan must file with SSA a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B to this part, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of SSA, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
§ 438.105
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Social Security.
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by the Social Security Administration, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR chapter 1), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement SSA enters into.
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
Federal loan
means a loan made by SSA. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
Influencing
or
attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee of SSA, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means SSA's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
Officer or employee of SSA
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S. Code, including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S. Code;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S. Code; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S. Code appendix 2.
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to professional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
SSA
means the Social Security Administration.
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
§ 438.110
Certification and disclosure.
(a) Each person must file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates SSA consideration of that person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(b) Each person must file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, if he or she receives:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000, unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person must file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by that person
under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement, must file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, must be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. That person must forward all disclosure forms to SSA.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section will be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers must rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation will be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and will not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.
(g) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either subpart B or C of this part.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
§ 438.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 438.100(a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by SSA or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with SSA (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for SSA's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for SSA to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from SSA pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Public Law 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 438.205
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 438.100(a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section,
professional and technical services
are limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 438.210
Reporting.
No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
§ 438.300
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 438.100(a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 438.110 (a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, do not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section,
professional and technical services
are limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis that directly apply to their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
§ 438.400
Penalties.
(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited by this part is subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each prohibited expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see Appendix B to this part) to be filed or amended if required by this part is subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is begun does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action begins with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to begin an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, SSA will consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of the person to continue in business, any prior violations by the person, the degree of culpability of the person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and any other matters that may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section are subject to a civil penalty of $10,000, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons are subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $10,000 and $100,000, as determined by the Commissioner or his or her designee.
(f) Imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of the civil penalty.
§ 438.405
Penalty procedures.
We will impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil Remedies
Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, to the extent these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements in this part.
§ 438.410
Enforcement.
The Commissioner of Social Security will take any actions necessary to ensure that the provisions in this part are vigorously implemented and enforced.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
§ 438.500
Secretary of Defense.
(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
§ 438.600
Semi-annual compilation.
(a) The Commissioner of Social Security will collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B to this part) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the 6-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, will be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters will be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information will not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order will be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information will not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation was submitted on May 31, 1990, and contains a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) were required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives by May 31, 1991. OMB provided detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) SSA will keep the originals of all disclosure reports in our official files.
§ 438.605
Inspector General report.
(a) The Inspector General of Social Security, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, will prepare and submit to Congress each year an evaluation of SSA compliance with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements in this part. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) The annual report will be submitted at the same time we submit our annual budget justification to Congress.
(c) The annual report will include the following: All alleged violations covered by the report, the actions taken by the Commissioner in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by SSA in the year covered by the report.
Pt. 438, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 438—Certification Regarding Lobbying

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form—LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form—LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
Pt. 438, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 438—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying
ER27MY03.000
ER27MY03.001
PARTS 440-497 [RESERVED]
Pt. 498

# PART 498—CIVIL MONETARY PENALTIES, ASSESSMENTS AND RECOMMENDED EXCLUSIONS
Sec.
498.100
Basis and purpose.
498.101
Definitions.
498.102
Basis for civil monetary penalties and assessments.
498.103
Amount of penalty.
498.104
Amount of assessment.
498.105
[Reserved]
498.106
Determinations regarding the amount or scope of penalties and assessments.
498.107
[Reserved]
498.108
Penalty and assessment not exclusive.
498.109
Notice of proposed determination.
498.110
Failure to request a hearing.
498.114
Collateral estoppel.
498.115-498.125
[Reserved]
498.126
Settlement.
498.127
Judicial review.
498.128
Collection of penalty and assessment.
498.129
Notice to other agencies.
498.132
Limitations.
498.201
Definitions.
498.202
Hearing before an administrative law judge.
498.203
Rights of parties.
498.204
Authority of the administrative law judge.
498.205
Ex parte contacts.
498.206
Prehearing conferences.
498.207
Discovery.
498.208
Exchange of witness lists, witness statements and exhibits.
498.209
Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.
498.210
Fees.
498.211
Form, filing and service of papers.
498.212
Computation of time.
498.213
Motions.
498.214
Sanctions.
498.215
The hearing and burden of proof.
498.216
Witnesses.
498.217
Evidence.
498.218
The record.
498.219
Post-hearing briefs.
498.220
Initial decision.
498.221
Appeal to DAB.
498.222
Final decision of the Commissioner.
498.223
Stay of initial decision.
498.224
Harmless error.

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5), 1129, and 1140 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1320a-8, and 1320b-10).

# Source:
60 FR 58226, Nov. 27, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 498.100
Basis and purpose.
(a)
Basis.
This part implements sections 1129 and 1140 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-8 and 1320b-10).
(b)
Purpose.
This part provides for the imposition of civil monetary penalties and assessments, as applicable, against persons who—
(1) Make or cause to be made false statements or representations or omissions or otherwise withhold disclosure of a material fact for use in determining any right to or amount of benefits under title II or benefits or payments under title VIII or title XVI of the Social Security Act;
(2) Convert any payment, or any part of a payment, received under title II, title VIII, or title XVI of the Social Security Act for the use and benefit of another individual, while acting in the capacity of a representative payee for that individual, to a use that such person knew or should have known was other than for the use and benefit of such other individual; or
(3) Misuse certain Social Security program words, letters, symbols, and emblems; or
(4) With limited exceptions, charge a fee for a product or service that is available from SSA free of charge without including a written notice stating the product or service is available from SSA free of charge.
[60 FR 58226, Nov. 27, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 18079, Apr. 24, 1996; 71 FR 28579, May 17, 2006]
§ 498.101
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Agency
means the Social Security Administration.
Assessment
means the amount described in § 498.104, and includes the plural of that term.
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Social Security or his or her designees.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
General Counsel
means the General Counsel of the Social Security Administration or his or her designees.
Inspector General
means the Inspector General of the Social Security Administration or his or her designees.
Material fact
means a fact which the Commissioner of Social Security may consider in evaluating whether an applicant is entitled to benefits under title II or eligible for benefits or payments under title VIII or title XVI of the Social Security Act.
Otherwise withhold disclosure
means the failure to come forward to notify the SSA of a material fact when such person knew or should have known that the withheld fact was material
and that such withholding was misleading for purposes of determining eligibility or Social Security benefit amount for that person or another person.
Penalty
means the amount described in § 498.103 and includes the plural of that term.
Person
means an individual, organization, agency, or other entity.
Respondent
means the person upon whom the Commissioner or the Inspector General has imposed, or intends to impose, a penalty and assessment, as applicable.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services or his or her designees.
SSA
means the Social Security Administration.
SSI
means Supplemental Security Income.
[60 FR 58226, Nov. 27, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 18079, Apr. 24, 1996; 71 FR 28580, May 17, 2006]
§ 498.102
Basis for civil monetary penalties and assessments.
(a) The Office of the Inspector General may impose a penalty and assessment, as applicable, against any person who it determines in accordance with this part—
(1) Has made, or caused to be made, a statement or representation of a material fact for use in determining any initial or continuing right to or amount of:
(i) Monthly insurance benefits under title II of the Social Security Act; or
(ii) Benefits or payments under title VIII or title XVI of the Social Security Act; and
(2)(i) Knew, or should have known, that the statement or representation was false or misleading, or
(ii) Made such statement with knowing disregard for the truth; or
(3) Omitted from a statement or representation, or otherwise withheld disclosure of, a material fact for use in determining any initial or continuing right to or amount of benefits or payments, which the person knew or should have known was material for such use and that such omission or withholding was false or misleading.
(b) The Office of the Inspector General may impose a penalty and assessment, as applicable, against any representative payee who receives a payment under title II, title VIII, or title XVI for the use and benefit of another individual and who converts such payment, or any part thereof, to a use that such representative payee knew or should have known was other than for the use and benefit of such other individual.
(c) The Office of the Inspector General may impose a penalty against any person who it determines in accordance with this part has made use of certain Social Security program words, letters, symbols, or emblems in such a manner that the person knew or should have known would convey, or in a manner which reasonably could be interpreted or construed as conveying, the false impression that a solicitation, advertisement or other communication was authorized, approved, or endorsed by the Social Security Administration, or that such person had some connection with, or authorization from, the Social Security Administration.
(1) Civil monetary penalties may be imposed for misuse, as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, of—
(i) The words “Social Security,” “Social Security Account,” “Social Security Administration,” “Social Security System,” “Supplemental Security Income Program,” “Death Benefits Update,” “Federal Benefit Information,” “Funeral Expenses,” “Final Supplemental Program,” or any combination or variation of such words; or
(ii) The letters “SSA,” or “SSI,” or any other combination or variation of such letters; or
(iii) A symbol or emblem of the Social Security Administration (including the design of, or a reasonable facsimile of the design of, the Social Security card, the check used for payment of benefits under title II, or envelopes or other stationery used by the Social Security Administration) or any other combination or variation of such symbols or emblems.
(2) Civil monetary penalties will not be imposed against any agency or instrumentality of a State, or political subdivision of a State, that makes use
of any words, letters, symbols or emblems of the Social Security Administration or instrumentality of the State or political subdivision.
(d) The Office of the Inspector General may impose a penalty against any person who offers, for a fee, to assist an individual in obtaining a product or service that the person knew or should have known the Social Security Administration provides free of charge, unless:
(1) The person provides sufficient notice before the product or service is provided to the individual that the product or service is available free of charge and:
(i) In a printed solicitation, advertisement or other communication, such notice is clearly and prominently placed and written in a font that is distinguishable from the rest of the text;
(ii) In a broadcast or telecast such notice is clearly communicated so as not to be construed as misleading or deceptive.
(2) Civil monetary penalties will not be imposed under paragraph (d) of this section with respect to offers—
(i) To serve as a claimant representative in connection with a claim arising under title II, title VIII, or title XVI; or
(ii) To prepare, or assist in the preparation of, an individual's plan for achieving self-support under title XVI.
(e) The use of a disclaimer of affiliation with the United States Government, the Social Security Administration or its programs, or any other agency or instrumentality of the United States Government will not be considered as a defense in determining a violation of section 1140 of the Social Security Act.
[71 FR 28580, May 17, 2006]
§ 498.103
Amount of penalty.
(a) Under § 498.102(a), the Office of the Inspector General may impose a penalty of not more than $5,000 for each false statement or representation, omission, or receipt of payment or benefit while withholding disclosure of a material fact.
(b) Under § 498.102(b), the Office of the Inspector General may impose a penalty of not more than $5,000 against a representative payee for each time the representative payee receives a payment under title II, title VIII, or title XVI of the Social Security Act for the use and benefit of another individual, and who converts such payment, or any part thereof, to a use that such representative payee knew or should have known was other than for the use and benefit of such other individual.
(c) Under § 498.102(c), the Office of the Inspector General may impose a penalty of not more than $5,000 for each violation resulting from the misuse of Social Security Administration program words, letters, symbols, or emblems relating to printed media and a penalty of not more than $25,000 for each violation in the case that such misuse related to a broadcast or telecast.
(d) Under § 498.102(d), the Office of the Inspector General may impose a penalty of not more than $5,000 for each violation resulting from insufficient notice relating to printed media regarding products or services provided free of charge by the Social Security Administration and a penalty of not more than $25,000 for each violation in the case that such insufficient notice relates to a broadcast or telecast.
(e) For purposes of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, a violation is defined as—
(1) In the case of a mailed solicitation, advertisement, or other communication, each separate piece of mail which contains one or more program words, letters, symbols, or emblems or insufficient notice related to a determination under § 498.102(c) or (d); and
(2) In the case of a broadcast or telecast, each airing of a single commercial or solicitation related to a determination under § 498.102(c) or (d).
(f) [Reserved]
(g)(1) The amount of the penalties described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section are the maximum penalties which may be assessed under these paragraphs for violations made after June 16, 2006, but before August 1, 2016.
(2)(i) After August 1, 2016 penalties are adjusted in accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410), as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134),
as further amended by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, Section 701: Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015 (Section 701 of Pub. L. 114-74).
(ii) The maximum penalties which may be assessed under this section is the larger of:
(A) The amount for the previous calendar year; or
(B) An amount adjusted for inflation, calculated by multiplying the amount for the previous calendar year by the percentage by which the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers for the month of October preceding the current calendar year exceeds the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers for the month of October of the calendar year two years prior to the current calendar year, adding that amount to the amount for the previous calendar year, and rounding the total to the nearest dollar.
(iii) Notice of the maximum penalty which may be assessed under this section for calendar years after 2016 will be published in the
Federal Register
on an annual basis on or before January 15 of each calendar year.
[71 FR 28580, May 17, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 41440, June 27, 2016]
§ 498.104
Amount of assessment.
A person subject to a penalty determined under § 498.102(a) may be subject, in addition, to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of benefits or payments paid under title II, title VIII or title XVI of the Social Security Act as a result of the statement, representation, omission, or withheld disclosure of a material fact which was the basis for the penalty. A representative payee subject to a penalty determined under § 498.102(b) may be subject, in addition, to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of benefits or payments received by the representative payee for the use and benefit of another individual and converted to a use other than for the use and benefit of such other individual. An assessment is in lieu of damages sustained by the United States because of such statement, representation, omission, withheld disclosure of a material fact, or conversion, as referred to in § 498.102(a) and (b).
[71 FR 28581, May 17, 2006]
§ 498.105
[Reserved]
§ 498.106
Determinations regarding the amount or scope of penalties and assessments.
(a) In determining the amount or scope of any penalty and assessment, as applicable, in accordance with § 498.103(a) and (b) and 498.104, the Office of the Inspector General will take into account:
(1) The nature of the statements, representations, or actions referred to in § 498.102(a) and (b) and the circumstances under which they occurred;
(2) The degree of culpability of the person committing the offense;
(3) The history of prior offenses of the person committing the offense;
(4) The financial condition of the person committing the offense; and
(5) Such other matters as justice may require.
(b) In determining the amount of any penalty in accordance with § 498.103(c) and (d), the Office of the Inspector General will take into account—
(1) The nature and objective of the advertisement, solicitation, or other communication, and the circumstances under which they were presented;
(2) The frequency and scope of the violation, and whether a specific segment of the population was targeted;
(3) The prior history of the individual, organization, or entity in their willingness or refusal to comply with informal requests to correct violations;
(4) The history of prior offenses of the individual, organization, or entity in their misuse of program words, letters, symbols, and emblems;
(5) The financial condition of the individual or entity; and
(6) Such other matters as justice may require.
(c) In cases brought under section 1140 of the Social Security Act, the use of a disclaimer of affiliation with the United States Government, the Social Security Administration or its programs will not be considered as a mitigating factor in determining the
amount of a penalty in accordance with § 498.106.
[60 FR 58226, Nov. 27, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 18080, Apr. 24, 1996; 71 FR 28581, May 17, 2006]
§ 498.107
[Reserved]
§ 498.108
Penalty and assessment not exclusive.
Penalties and assessments, as applicable, imposed under this part are in addition to any other penalties prescribed by law.
[61 FR 18080, Apr. 24, 1996]
§ 498.109
Notice of proposed determination.
(a) If the Office of the Inspector General seeks to impose a penalty and assessment, as applicable, it will serve written notice of the intent to take such action. The notice will include:
(1) Reference to the statutory basis for the proposed penalty and assessment, as applicable;
(2) A description of the false statements, representations, other actions (as described in § 498.102(a) and (b)), and incidents, as applicable, with respect to which the penalty and assessment, as applicable, are proposed;
(3) The amount of the proposed penalty and assessment, as applicable;
(4) Any circumstances described in § 498.106 that were considered when determining the amount of the proposed penalty and assessment, as applicable; and
(5) Instructions for responding to the notice, including
(i) A specific statement of respondent's right to a hearing; and
(ii) A statement that failure to request a hearing within 60 days permits the imposition of the proposed penalty and assessment, as applicable, without right of appeal.
(b) Any person upon whom the Office of the Inspector General has proposed the imposition of a penalty and assessment, as applicable, may request a hearing on such proposed penalty and assessment.
(c) If the respondent fails to exercise the respondent's right to a hearing within the time permitted under this section, and does not demonstrate good cause for such failure before an administrative law judge, any penalty and assessment, as applicable, becomes final.
[61 FR 18080, Apr. 24, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 28581, May 17, 2006]
§ 498.110
Failure to request a hearing.
If the respondent does not request a hearing within the time prescribed by § 498.109(a), the Office of the Inspector General may seek the proposed penalty and assessment, as applicable, or any less severe penalty and assessment. The Office of the Inspector General shall notify the respondent by certified mail, return receipt requested, of any penalty and assessment, as applicable, that has been imposed and of the means by which the respondent may satisfy the amount owed.
[61 FR 18080, Apr. 24, 1996]
§ 498.114
Collateral estoppel.
In a proceeding under section 1129 of the Social Security Act that—
(a) Is against a person who has been convicted (whether upon a verdict after trial or upon a plea of guilty or
nolo contendere
) of a Federal or State crime; and
(b) Involves the same transactions as in the criminal action, the person is estopped from denying the essential elements of the criminal offense.
[61 FR 18080, Apr. 24, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 28581, May 17, 2006]
§§ 498.115-498.125
[Reserved]
§ 498.126
Settlement.
The Inspector General has exclusive authority to settle any issues or case, without the consent of the administrative law judge or the Commissioner, at any time prior to a final determination. Thereafter, the Commissioner or his or her designee has such exclusive authority.
§ 498.127
Judicial review.
Sections 1129 and 1140 of the Social Security Act authorize judicial review of any penalty and assessment, as applicable, that has become final. Judicial review may be sought by a respondent only in regard to a penalty and assessment, as applicable, with respect to which the respondent requested a hearing, unless the failure or
neglect to urge such objection is excused by the court because of extraordinary circumstances.
[61 FR 18080, Apr. 24, 1996]
§ 498.128
Collection of penalty and assessment.
(a) Once a determination has become final, collection of any penalty and assessment, as applicable, will be the responsibility of the Commissioner or his or her designee.
(b) In cases brought under section 1129 of the Social Security Act, a penalty and assessment, as applicable, imposed under this part may be compromised by the Commissioner or his or her designee and may be recovered in a civil action brought in the United States District Court for the district where the violation occurred or where the respondent resides.
(c) In cases brought under section 1140 of the Social Security Act, a penalty imposed under this part may be compromised by the Commissioner or his or her designee and may be recovered in a civil action brought in the United States district court for the district where, as determined by the Commissioner, the:
(1) Violations referred to in § 498.102(c) or (d) occurred; or
(2) Respondent resides; or
(3) Respondent has its principal office; or
(4) Respondent may be found.
(d) As specifically provided under the Social Security Act, in cases brought under section 1129 of the Social Security Act, the amount of a penalty and assessment, as applicable, when finally determined, or the amount agreed upon in compromise, may also be deducted from:
(1) Monthly title II, title VIII, or title XVI payments, notwithstanding section 207 of the Social Security Act as made applicable to title XVI by section 1631(d)(1) of the Social Security Act;
(2) A tax refund to which a person is entitled to after notice to the Secretary of the Treasury under 31 U.S.C. § 3720A;
(3) By authorities provided under the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 3711, to the extent applicable to debts arising under the Social Security Act; or
(4) Any combination of the foregoing.
(e) Matters that were raised or that could have been raised in a hearing before an administrative law judge or in an appeal to the United States Court of Appeals under sections 1129 or 1140 of the Social Security Act may not be raised as a defense in a civil action by the United States to collect a penalty and assessment, as applicable, under this part.
[60 FR 58226, Nov. 27, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 18080, Apr. 24, 1996; 71 FR 28581, May 17, 2006]
§ 498.129
Notice to other agencies.
As provided in section 1129 of the Social Security Act, when a determination to impose a penalty and assessment, as applicable, with respect to a physician or medical provider becomes final, the Office of the Inspector General will notify the Secretary of the final determination and the reasons therefore.
[61 FR 18081, Apr. 24, 1996]
§ 498.132
Limitations.
The Office of the Inspector General may initiate a proceeding in accordance with § 498.109(a) to determine whether to impose a penalty and assessment, as applicable—
(a) In cases brought under section 1129 of the Social Security Act, after receiving authorization from the Attorney General pursuant to procedures agreed upon by the Inspector General and the Attorney General; and
(b) Within 6 years from the date on which the violation was committed.
[61 FR 18081, Apr. 24, 1996]
§ 498.201
Definitions.
As used in this part—
ALJ
refers to an Administrative Law Judge of the Departmental Appeals Board.
Civil monetary penalty cases
refer to all proceedings arising under any of the statutory bases for which the Inspector General, Social Security Administration has been delegated authority to impose civil monetary penalties.
DAB
refers to the Departmental Appeals Board of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
[61 FR 65468, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.202
Hearing before an administrative law judge.
(a) A party sanctioned under any criteria specified in §§ 498.100 through 498.132 may request a hearing before an ALJ.
(b) In civil monetary penalty cases, the parties to a hearing will consist of the respondent and the Inspector General.
(c) The request for a hearing must be:
(1) In writing and signed by the respondent or by the respondent's attorney; and
(2) Filed within 60 days after the notice, provided in accordance with § 498.109, is received by the respondent or upon a showing of good cause, the time permitted by an ALJ.
(d) The request for a hearing shall contain a statement as to the:
(1) Specific issues or findings of fact and conclusions of law in the notice letter with which the respondent disagrees; and
(2) Basis for the respondent's contention that the specific issues or findings and conclusions were incorrect.
(e) For purposes of this section, the date of receipt of the notice letter will be presumed to be five days after the date of such notice, unless there is a reasonable showing to the contrary.
(f) The ALJ shall dismiss a hearing request where:
(1) The respondent's hearing request is not filed in a timely manner and the respondent fails to demonstrate good cause for such failure;
(2) The respondent withdraws or abandons respondent's request for a hearing; or
(3) The respondent's hearing request fails to raise any issue which may properly be addressed in a hearing under this part.
[61 FR 65468, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.203
Rights of parties.
(a) Except as otherwise limited by this part, all parties may:
(1) Be accompanied, represented, and advised by an attorney;
(2) Participate in any conference held by the ALJ;
(3) Conduct discovery of documents as permitted by this part;
(4) Agree to stipulations of fact or law which will be made part of the record;
(5) Present evidence relevant to the issues at the hearing;
(6) Present and cross-examine witnesses;
(7) Present oral arguments at the hearing as permitted by the ALJ; and
(8) Submit written briefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law after the hearing.
(b) Fees for any services performed on behalf of a party by an attorney are not subject to the provisions of section 206 of title II of the Social Security Act, which authorizes the Commissioner to specify or limit these fees.
[61 FR 65469, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.204
Authority of the administrative law judge.
(a) The ALJ will conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
(b) The ALJ has the authority to:
(1) Set and change the date, time, and place of the hearing upon reasonable notice to the parties;
(2) Continue or recess the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
(3) Hold conferences to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding;
(4) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(5) Issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses at hearings and the production of documents at or in relation to hearings;
(6) Rule on motions and other procedural matters;
(7) Regulate the scope and timing of documentary discovery as permitted by this part;
(8) Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of representatives, parties, and witnesses;
(9) Examine witnesses;
(10) Receive, exclude, or limit evidence;
(11) Take official notice of facts;
(12) Upon motion of a party, decide cases, in whole or in part, by summary judgment where there is no disputed issue of material fact; and
(13) Conduct any conference or argument in person, or by telephone upon agreement of the parties.
(c) The ALJ does not have the authority to:
(1) Find invalid or refuse to follow Federal statutes or regulations, or delegations of authority from the Commissioner;
(2) Enter an order in the nature of a directed verdict;
(3) Compel settlement negotiations;
(4) Enjoin any act of the Commissioner or the Inspector General; or
(5) Review the exercise of discretion by the Office of the Inspector General to seek to impose a civil monetary penalty or assessment under §§ 498.100 through 498.132.
[61 FR 65469, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.205
Ex parte contacts.
No party or person (except employees of the ALJ's office) will communicate in any way with the ALJ on any matter at issue in a case, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This provision does not prohibit a person or party from inquiring about the status of a case or asking routine questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.
[61 FR 65469, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.206
Prehearing conferences.
(a) The ALJ will schedule at least one prehearing conference, and may schedule additional prehearing conferences as appropriate, upon reasonable notice to the parties.
(b) The ALJ may use prehearing conferences to address the following:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, including the need for a more definite statement;
(3) Stipulations and admissions of fact as to the contents and authenticity of documents and deadlines for challenges, if any, to the authenticity of documents;
(4) Whether the parties can agree to submission of the case on a stipulated record;
(5) Whether a party chooses to waive appearance at a hearing and to submit only documentary evidence (subject to the objection of other parties) and written argument;
(6) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(7) The time and place for the hearing and dates for the exchange of witness lists and of proposed exhibits;
(8) Discovery of documents as permitted by this part;
(9) Such other matters as may tend to encourage the fair, just, and expeditious disposition of the proceedings; and
(10) Potential settlement of the case.
(c) The ALJ shall issue an order containing the matters agreed upon by the parties or ordered by the ALJ at a prehearing conference.
[61 FR 65469, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.207
Discovery.
(a) For the purpose of inspection and copying, a party may make a request to another party for production of documents which are relevant and material to the issues before the ALJ.
(b) Any form of discovery other than that permitted under paragraph (a) of this section, such as requests for admissions, written interrogatories and depositions, is not authorized.
(c) For the purpose of this section, the term documents includes information, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, memos, notes and other data and documentary evidence. Nothing contained in this section will be interpreted to require the creation of a document, except that requested data stored in an electronic data storage system will be produced in a form accessible to the requesting party.
(d)(1) A party who has been served with a request for production of documents may file a motion for a protective order. The motion for protective order shall describe the document or class of documents to be protected, specify which of the grounds in § 498.207(d)(2) are being asserted, and explain how those grounds apply.
(2) The ALJ may grant a motion for a protective order if he or she finds that the discovery sought:
(i) Is unduly costly or burdensome;
(ii) Will unduly delay the proceeding; or
(iii) Seeks privileged information.
(3) The burden of showing that discovery should be allowed is on the party seeking discovery.
[61 FR 65469, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.208
Exchange of witness lists, witness statements and exhibits.
(a) At least 15 days before the hearing, the parties shall exchange:
(1) Witness lists;
(2) Copies of prior written statements of proposed witnesses; and
(3) Copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements that the party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with § 498.216.
(b)(1) Failure to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may result in the exclusion of evidence or testimony upon the objection of the opposing party.
(2) When an objection is entered, the ALJ shall determine whether good cause justified the failure to timely exchange the information listed under paragraph (a) of this section. If good cause is not found, the ALJ shall exclude from the party's case-in-chief:
(i) The testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list; and
(ii) Any exhibit not provided to the opposing party as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) If the ALJ finds that good cause exists, the ALJ shall determine whether the admission of such evidence would cause substantial prejudice to the objecting party due to the failure to comply with paragraph (a) of this section. If the ALJ finds no substantial prejudice, the evidence may be admitted. If the ALJ finds substantial prejudice, the ALJ may exclude the evidence, or at his or her discretion, may postpone the hearing for such time as is necessary for the objecting party to prepare and respond to the evidence.
(c) Unless a party objects by the deadline set by the ALJ's prehearing order pursuant to § 498.206 (b)(3) and (c), documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section will be deemed authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.
[61 FR 65470, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.209
Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.
(a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual, whose appearance and testimony are relevant and material to the presentation of a party's case at a hearing, may make a motion requesting the ALJ to issue a subpoena.
(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance of an individual may also require the individual (whether or not the individual is a party) to produce evidence at the hearing in accordance with § 498.207.
(c) A party seeking a subpoena will file a written motion not less than 30 days before the date fixed for the hearing, unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ for good cause shown. Such request will:
(1) Specify any evidence to be produced;
(2) Designate the witness(es); and
(3) Describe the address and location with sufficient particularity to permit such witness(es) to be found.
(d) Within 20 days after the written motion requesting issuance of a subpoena is served, any party may file an opposition or other response.
(e) If the motion requesting issuance of a subpoena is granted, the party seeking the subpoena will serve the subpoena by delivery to the individual named, or by certified mail addressed to such individual at his or her last dwelling place or principal place of business.
(f) The subpoena will specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any evidence the witness is to produce.
(g) The individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena within 10 days after service.
(h) When a subpoena is served by a respondent on a particular individual or particular office of the Office of the Inspector General, the OIG may comply by designating any of its representatives to appear and testify.
(i) In the case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena duly served upon any person, the exclusive remedy is specified in section 205(e) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(e)).
[61 FR 65470, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.210
Fees.
The party requesting a subpoena will pay the cost of the fees and mileage of any witness subpoenaed in the amounts that would be payable to a witness in a proceeding in United States District Court. A check for witness fees and mileage will accompany the subpoena when served, except that when a subpoena is issued on behalf of the Inspector General, a check for witness fees and mileage need not accompany the subpoena.
[61 FR 65470, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.211
Form, filing and service of papers.
(a)
Form.
(1) Unless the ALJ directs the parties to do otherwise, documents filed with the ALJ will include an original and two copies.
(2) Every document filed in the proceeding will contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the case number, and a designation of the pleading or paper.
(3) Every document will be signed by, and will contain the address and telephone number of the party or the person on whose behalf the document was filed, or his or her representative.
(4) Documents are considered filed when they are mailed.
(b)
Service.
A party filing a document with the ALJ will, at the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document will be made by delivering a copy, or placing a copy of the document in the United States mail, postage prepaid and addressed, or with a private delivery service, to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by an attorney, service will be made upon such attorney. Proof of service should accompany any document filed with the ALJ.
(c)
Proof of service.
A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the manner of service, will be proof of service.
[61 FR 65470, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.212
Computation of time.
(a) In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued thereunder, the time begins with the day following the act, event or default, and includes the last day of the period unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday observed by the Federal Government, in which event it includes the next business day.
(b) When the period of time allowed is less than 7 days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays observed by the Federal Government will be excluded from the computation.
(c) Where a document has been served or issued by placing it in the mail, an additional 5 days will be added to the time permitted for any response. This paragraph does not apply to requests for hearing under § 498.202.
[61 FR 65470, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.213
Motions.
(a) An application to the ALJ for an order or ruling will be by motion. Motions will:
(1) State the relief sought, the authority relied upon and the facts alleged; and
(2) Be filed with the ALJ and served on all other parties.
(b) Except for motions made during a prehearing conference or at a hearing, all motions will be in writing.
(c) Within 10 days after a written motion is served, or such other time as may be fixed by the ALJ, any party may file a response to such motion.
(d) The ALJ may not grant or deny a written motion before the time for filing responses has expired, except upon consent of the parties or following a hearing on the motion.
(e) The ALJ will make a reasonable effort to dispose of all outstanding motions prior to the beginning of the hearing.
(f) There is no right to appeal to the DAB any interlocutory ruling by the ALJ.
[61 FR 65470, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.214
Sanctions.
(a) The ALJ may sanction a person, including any party or attorney, for:
(1) Failing to comply with an order or procedure;
(2) Failing to defend an action; or
(3) Misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly or fair conduct of the hearing.
(b) Such sanctions will reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct. Such sanction may include—
(1) In the case of refusal to provide or permit discovery under the terms of this part, drawing negative factual inferences or treating such refusal as an admission by deeming the matter, or certain facts, to be established;
(2) Prohibiting a party from introducing certain evidence or otherwise supporting a particular claim or defense;
(3) Striking pleadings, in whole or in part;
(4) Staying the proceedings;
(5) Dismissal of the action; or
(6) Entering a decision by default.
(c) In addition to the sanctions listed in paragraph (b) of this section, the ALJ may:
(1) Order the party or attorney to pay attorney's fees and other costs caused by the failure or misconduct; or
(2) Refuse to consider any motion or other action that is not filed in a timely manner.
[61 FR 65471, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.215
The hearing and burden of proof.
(a) The ALJ will conduct a hearing on the record in order to determine whether the respondent should be found liable under this part.
(b) In civil monetary penalty cases under §§ 498.100 through 498.132:
(1) The respondent has the burden of going forward and the burden of persuasion with respect to affirmative defenses and any mitigating circumstances; and
(2) The Inspector General has the burden of going forward and the burden of persuasion with respect to all other issues.
(c) The burden of persuasion will be judged by a preponderance of the evidence.
(d) The hearing will be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ for good cause.
(e)(1) A hearing under this part is not limited to specific items and information set forth in the notice letter to the respondent. Subject to the 15-day requirement under § 498.208, additional items or information may be introduced by either party during its case-in-chief, unless such information or items are inadmissible under § 498.217.
(2) After both parties have presented their cases, evidence may be admitted on rebuttal as to those issues presented in the case-in-chief, even if not previously exchanged in accordance with § 498.208.
[61 FR 65471, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.216
Witnesses.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, testimony at the hearing will be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.
(b) At the discretion of the ALJ, testimony (other than expert testimony) may be admitted in the form of a written statement. Any such written statement must be provided to all other parties along with the last known address of such witness, in a manner that allows sufficient time for other parties to subpoena such witness for cross-examination at the hearing. Prior written statements of witnesses proposed to testify at the hearing will be exchanged as provided in § 498.208.
(c) The ALJ will exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of witness direct and cross examination and evidence presentation so as to:
(1) Make the examination and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth;
(2) Avoid repetition or needless waste of time; and
(3) Protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.
(d) The ALJ may order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses. This does not authorize exclusion of:
(1) A party who is an individual;
(2) In the case of a party that is not an individual, an officer or employee of
the party appearing for the entity pro se or designated as the party's representative; or
(3) An individual whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of its case, including an individual engaged in assisting the attorney for the Inspector General.
[61 FR 65471, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.217
Evidence.
(a) The ALJ will determine the admissibility of evidence.
(b) Except as provided in this part, the ALJ will not be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence, but may be guided by them in ruling on the admissibility of evidence.
(c) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by considerations of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(d) Although relevant, evidence must be excluded if it is privileged under Federal law, unless the privilege is waived by a party.
(e) Evidence concerning offers of compromise or settlement made in this action will be inadmissible to the extent provided in Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.
(f)(1) Evidence of crimes, wrongs or acts other than those at issue in the instant case is admissible in order to show motive, opportunity, intent, knowledge, preparation, identity, lack of mistake, or existence of a scheme.
(2) Such evidence is admissible regardless of whether the crimes, wrongs or acts occurred during the statute of limitations period applicable to the acts which constitute the basis for liability in the case, and regardless of whether they were referenced in the IG's notice sent in accordance with § 498.109.
(g) The ALJ will permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence as to those issues raised in the parties' case-in-chief.
(h) All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record will be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ for good cause.
[61 FR 65471, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.218
The record.
(a) The hearing shall be recorded and transcribed. Transcripts may be obtained following the hearing from the ALJ.
(b) The transcript of testimony, exhibits and other evidence admitted at the hearing, and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the record for the decision by the ALJ.
(c) The record may be inspected and copied (upon payment of a reasonable fee) by any person, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ for good cause.
[61 FR 65471, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.219
Post-hearing briefs.
(a) Any party may file a post-hearing brief.
(b) The ALJ may require the parties to file post-hearing briefs and may permit the parties to file reply briefs.
(c) The ALJ will fix the time for filing briefs, which is not to exceed 60 days from the date the parties receive the transcript of the hearing or, if applicable, the stipulated record.
(d) The parties' briefs may be accompanied by proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.
[61 FR 65471, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.220
Initial decision.
(a) The ALJ will issue an initial decision, based only on the record, which will contain findings of fact and conclusions of law.
(b) The ALJ may affirm, deny, increase, or reduce the penalties or assessments proposed by the Inspector General.
(c) The ALJ will issue the initial decision to all parties within 60 days after the time for submission of post-hearing briefs or reply briefs, if permitted, has expired. The decision will be accompanied by a statement describing the right of any party to file a notice of appeal with the DAB and instructions for how to file such appeal. If the ALJ cannot issue an initial decision within the 60 days, the ALJ will
notify the parties of the reason for the delay and will set a new deadline.
(d) Unless an appeal or request for extension pursuant to § 498.221(a) is filed with the DAB, the initial decision of the ALJ becomes final and binding on the parties 30 days after the ALJ serves the parties with a copy of the decision. If service is by mail, the date of service will be deemed to be five days from the date of mailing.
[61 FR 65472, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.221
Appeal to DAB.
(a) Any party may appeal the decision of the ALJ to the DAB by filing a notice of appeal with the DAB within 30 days of the date of service of the initial decision. The DAB may extend the initial 30-day period for a period of time not to exceed 30 days if a party files with the DAB a request for an extension within the initial 30-day period and shows good cause.
(b) If a party files a timely notice of appeal with the DAB, the ALJ will forward the record of the proceeding to the DAB.
(c) A notice of appeal will be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decision and reasons supporting the exceptions, and identifying which finding of fact and conclusions of law the party is taking exception to. Any party may file a brief in opposition to exceptions, which may raise any relevant issue not addressed in the exceptions, within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief. The DAB may permit the parties to file reply briefs.
(d) There is no right to appear personally before the DAB, or to appeal to the DAB any interlocutory ruling by the ALJ.
(e) No party or person (except employees of the DAB) will communicate in any way with members of the DAB on any matter at issue in a case, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This provision does not prohibit a person or party from inquiring about the status of a case or asking routine questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.
(f) The DAB will not consider any issue not raised in the parties' briefs, nor any issue in the briefs that could have been, but was not, raised before the ALJ.
(g) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the DAB that additional evidence not presented at such hearing is relevant and material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to adduce such evidence at such hearing, the DAB may remand the matter to the ALJ for consideration of such additional evidence.
(h) The DAB may remand a case to an ALJ for further proceedings, or may issue a recommended decision to decline review or affirm, increase, reduce, or reverse any penalty or assessment determined by the ALJ.
(i) When the DAB reviews a case, it will limit its review to whether the ALJ's initial decision is supported by substantial evidence on the whole record or contained error of law.
(j) Within 60 days after the time for submission of briefs or, if permitted, reply briefs has expired, the DAB will issue to each party to the appeal and to the Commissioner a copy of the DAB's recommended decision and a statement describing the right of any respondent who is found liable to seek judicial review upon a final decision.
[61 FR 65472, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.222
Final decision of the Commissioner.
(a) Except with respect to any penalty or assessment remanded to the ALJ, the DAB's recommended decision, including a recommended decision to decline review of the initial decision, shall become the final decision of the Commissioner 60 days after the date on which the DAB serves the parties to the appeal and the Commissioner with a copy of the recommended decision, unless the Commissioner reverses or modifies the DAB's recommended decision within that 60-day period. If the Commissioner reverses or modifies the DAB's recommended decision, the Commissioner's decision is final and binding on the parties. In either event, a copy of the final decision will be served on the parties. If service is by mail, the date of service will be deemed to be five days from the date of mailing.
(b) There shall be no right to personally appear before or submit additional
evidence, pleadings or briefs to the Commissioner.
(c)(1) Any petition for judicial review must be filed within 60 days after the parties are served with a copy of the final decision. If service is by mail, the date of service will be deemed to be five days from the date of mailing.
(2) In compliance with 28 U.S.C. 2112(a), a copy of any petition for judicial review filed in any U.S. Court of Appeals challenging a final action of the Commissioner will be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the SSA General Counsel. The petition copy will be time-stamped by the clerk of the court when the original is filed with the court.
(3) If the SSA General Counsel receives two or more petitions within 10 days after the final decision is issued, the General Counsel will notify the U.S. Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation of any petitions that were received within the 10-day period.
[61 FR 65472, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.223
Stay of initial decision.
(a) The filing of a respondent's request for review by the DAB will automatically stay the effective date of the ALJ's decision.
(b)(1) After issuance of the final decision, pending judicial review, the respondent may file a request for stay of the effective date of any penalty or assessment with the ALJ. The request must be accompanied by a copy of the notice of appeal filed with the Federal court. The filing of such a request will automatically act to stay the effective date of the penalty or assessment until such time as the ALJ rules upon the request.
(2) The ALJ may not grant a respondent's request for stay of any penalty or assessment unless the respondent posts a bond or provides other adequate security.
(3) The ALJ will rule upon a respondent's request for stay within 10 days of receipt.
[61 FR 65472, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 498.224
Harmless error.
No error in either the admission or the exclusion of evidence, and no error or defect in any ruling or order or in any act done or omitted by the ALJ or by any of the parties is ground for vacating, modifying or otherwise disturbing an otherwise appropriate ruling or order or act, unless refusal to take such action appears to the ALJ or the DAB to be inconsistent with substantial justice. The ALJ and the DAB at every stage of the proceeding will disregard any error or defect in the proceeding that does not affect the substantial rights of the parties.
[61 FR 65472, Dec. 13, 1996]
PART 499 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
Chapter III Index
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
20 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
Index to Chapter III

# Index to Chapter III

# Index to Chapter III—Social Security Acquiescence Rulings

# Editorial Note:
This listing is provided for information purposes only. It is compiled and kept up-to-date by the Social Security Administration.
This listing contains all Acquiescence Rulings (ARs) published in the
Federal Register
under the requirements of 20 CFR 402.160(b)(2) during the period from January 11, 1990, through June 1, 2025. The listing includes the AR number, title, publication date and the
Federal Register
reference number. (The parenthetical number that follows each AR number refers to the United States judicial circuit involved.) This notice also lists ARs which were rescinded during this period. In addition, SSA has included
Federal Register
references for three prior cumulative AR listing notices.
SSA believes this publication will assist individuals in finding ARs.
The CFR may not state the circuitwide standard in effect when SSA has determined that the holding in a decision of a United States Court of Appeals is at variance with SSA's national interpretation.

# Acquiescence Rulings
Published cumulative lists of ARs relating to claims under title II and title XVI of the Social Security Act and part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act were issued for ARs published prior to January 11, 1990.
1. The first notice announcing 14 ARs issued during the period from January 23, 1986, through April 30, 1986, was published in the
Federal Register
on June 4, 1986 (51 FR 20354).
2. A second notice announcing 12 additional ARs issued during the period from May 20, 1986, through March 31, 1987, was published in the
Federal Register
on August 7, 1987 (52 FR 29911).
3. A third notice announcing 11 more ARs, issued during the period from May 1, 1987, through November 14, 1988, the withdrawal of one AR which was issued earlier, and the withdrawal of one of the ARs issued during this period was published in the
Federal Register
on July 10, 1990 (55 FR 28302).
AR 86-2R(2)
Rosenberg
v.
Richardson
, 538 F.2d 487 (2d Cir. 1976);
Capitano
v.
Secretary of HHS
, 732 F.2d 1066 (2d Cir. 1984)—Entitlement of a Deemed Widow When a Legal Widow is Entitled on the Same Earnings Record—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
June 25, 1992, at 57 FR 28527.

# Note:
The original AR for the Second Circuit Court of Appeals' holding in
Rosenberg
and
Capitano
(AR 86-2(2)), issued January 23, 1986, was rescinded and replaced by this revised AR.
AR 86-19R(11)
Woodson
v.
Schweiker
, 656 F.2d 1169 (5th Cir. 1981)—Interpretation of the Deemed Marriage Provision—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
June 25, 1992, at 57 FR 28524.

# Note:
The original AR applicable in the Eleventh Circuit for the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals' holding in
Woodson
(AR 86-19(11)), issued May 22, 1986, was rescinded and replaced by this revised AR.
AR 90-1(9)
Paxton
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 856 F.2d 1352 (9th Cir. 1988)—Treatment of Dependent's Portion of Augmented Veterans Benefit Paid Directly To Veteran—Title XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
July 16, 1990, at 55 FR 28946. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 90-2(2)
Ruppert
v.
Bowen
, 871 F.2d 1172 (2d Cir. 1989)—Evaluation of a Rental Subsidy as In-Kind Income for Supplemental Security Income (SSI) Benefit Calculation Purposes—Title XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
July 16, 1990, at 55 FR 28947.
AR 90-3(4)
Smith
v.
Bowen
, 837 F.2d 635 (4th Cir. 1987)—Use of Vocational Expert or Other Vocational Specialist in Determining Whether a Claimant Can Perform Past Relevant Work—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
July 16, 1990, at 55 FR 28949. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 90-4(4)
Culbertson
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 859 F.2d 319 (4th Cir. 1988),
Young
v.
Bowen
, 858 F.2d 951 (4th Cir. 1988)—Waiver of Administrative Finality in Proceedings Involving Unrepresented Claimants Who Lack the Mental Competence to Request. Administrative Review—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
July 16, 1990, at 55 FR 28943.
AR 90-5(2)
Kier
v.
Sullivan
, 888 F.2d 244 (2d Cir. 1989), rehearing denied, January 22, 1990—Assessment of Residual Functiona1 Capacity in Disabled Widows' Cases—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
September 18, 1990, at 55 FR 38400. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 90-6(1)
Cassus
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 893 F.2d 454 (lst Cir. 1990), rehearing denied, April 9, 1990—Assessment of Residual Functional Capacity in Disabled Widows' Cases—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
September 18, 1990, at 55 FR 38398. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 90-7(9)
Ruff
v.
Sullivan
, 907 F.2d 915 (9th Cir. 1990)—Assessment of Residual Functional Capacity in Disabled Widows? Cases—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
September 18, 1990, at 55 FR 38402. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 91-1(5)
Lidy
v.
Sullivan
, 911 F.2d 1075 (5th Cir. 1990)—Right to Subpoena an examining Physician for Cross-examination Purposes—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
December 31, 1991, at 56 FR 67625 as AR 91-X(5).
Correction Notice Published:
May 1, 1992, at 57 FR 18899—AR number changed to 91-1(5).
AR 92-1(3)
Mazza
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 903 F.2d 953 (3d Cir. 1990)—Order of Effectuation in Concurrent Application Cases (Title II/Title XVI).
Published:
January 10, 1992, at 57 FR 1190 as AR 91-X(3).
Correction Notice Published:
May 1, 1992, at 57 FR 18899—AR number changed to 92-1(3).
AR 92-2(6)
Difford
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 910 F.2d 1316 (6th Cir. 1990), rehearing denied, February 7, 1991—Scope of Review on Appeal in a Medical Cessation of Disability Case—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
March 17, 1992, at 57 FR 9262.
AR 92-3(4)
Branham
v.
Heckler
, 775 F.2d 1271 (4th Cir. 1985);
Flowers
v.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
, 904 F.2d 211 (4th Cir. 1990)—What Constitutes a Significant-Work-Related Limitation of Function.
Published:
March 10, 1992, at 57 FR 8463. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 92-4(11)
Bloodsworth
v.
Heckler
, 703 F.2d 1233 (11th Cir. 1983)—Judicial Review of an Appeals Council Dismissal of a Request for Review of an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ]) Decision.
Published:
April 8, 1992, at 57 FR 11961.
AR 92-5(9)
Quinlivan
v.
Sullivan
, 916 F.2d 524 (9th Cir. 1990)—Meaning of the Term “Against Equity and Good Conscience” in the Rules for Waiver of Recovery of an Overpayment—Titles II and XV of the Social Security Act; Title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977.
Published:
June 22, 1992, at 57 FR 27783.
AR 92-6(10)
Walker
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 943 F.2d 1257 (l0th Cir. 1991)—Entitlement to Trial Work Period Before Approval of an Award for Benefits and Before Twelve Months Have Elapsed Since Onset of Disability—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
September 17, 1992, at 57 FR 43007.
AR 92-7(9)
Gonzales
v.
Sullivan
, 914 F.2d 1197 (9th Cir. 1990)—Effect of Initial Determination Notice Language on
the Application of Administrative Finality-Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
September 30. 1992, at 57 FR 45061.
AR 93-1(4)
Branham
v.
Heckler
, 775 F.2d 1271 (4th Cir. 1985);
Flowers
v.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
, 904 F.2d 211 (4th Cir. 1990)—What Constitutes an Additional and Significant Work-Related Limitation of Function—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
April 29, 1993, at 58 FR 25996.

# Note:
The original AR for the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals? holding in
Branham
and
Flowers
(AR 92-31(4)), issued March 10, 1992, was revised to reflect a regulatory change regarding the IQ Listing range. There were no other substantive changes to this AR. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 93-2(2)
Conley
v.
Bowen
, 859 F.2d 261 (2d Cir. 1988)—Determination of Whether an Individual with a Disabling Impairment Has Engaged in Substantial Gainful Activity Following a Reentitlement Period—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
May 17, 1993, at 58 FR 28887. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 93-3(6)
Akers
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 966 F.2d 205 (6th Cir. 1992)—Attorney's Fees Based in Part on Continued Benefits Paid to Social Security Claimants—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
July 29, 1993, at 58 FR 40662. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 93-4(2)
Condon and Brodner
v.
Bowen
, 853 F.2d 66 (2d Cir. 1988)—Attorney's Fees Based in Part on Continued Benefits Paid to Social Security Claimants—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
July 29, 1993, at 58 FR 40663. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 93-5(11)
Shoemaker
v.
Bowen
, 853 F.2d 858 (11th Cir. 1988)—Attorney's Fees Based in Part on Continued Benefits Paid to Social Security Claimants—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
July 29, 1993, at 58 FR 40665. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 93-6(8)
Brewster on Behalf of Keller
v.
Sullivan
, 972 F.2d 898 (8th Cir. 1992)—Interpretation of the Secretary's Regulation Regarding Presumption of Death—Title II of the Social Security Act
Published:
August 16, 1993, at 58 FR 43369. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 94-1(10)
Wolfe
v.
Sullivan
, 988 F.2d 1025 (10th Cir. 1993)—Contributions to Support re: Posthumous Illegitimate Child—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
June 27, 1994, at 59 FR 33003.
AR 94-2(4)
Lively
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 820 F.2d 1391 (4th Cir. 1987)—Effect of Prior Disability Findings on Adjudication of a Subsequent Disability Claim Arising Under the Same Title of the Social Security Act—Titles Il and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
July 7, 1994, at 59 FR 34849. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 95-1(6)
Preslar
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 14 F.3d 1107 (6th Cir.1994)—Definition of Highly Marketable Skills for Individuals Close to Retirement Age—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
May 4, 1995, at 60 FR 22091. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 95-2(9)
Hodge
v.
Shalala
, 27 F.3d 430 (9th Cir. 1994)—Workers' Compensation—Proration of a Lump-Sum Award for Permanent Disability Over the Remainder of an Individual's Working Life Under Oregon Workers' Compensation Law-Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
July 12, 1995, at 60 FR 35987.
AR 96-1(6)
DeSonier
v.
Sullivan
, 906 F.2d 228 (6th Cir. 1990)—Method of Application of State Intestate Succession Law in Determining Entitlement to Child?s Benefits—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
June 3, 1996, at 61 FR 27942.
AR 97-1(1)
Parisi By Cooney
v.
Chater
, 69 F.3d 614 (1st Cir. 1995)—Reduction of Benefits Under the Family Maximum in Cases Involving Dual Entitlement—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
January 13, 1997, at 62 FR 1792. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 97-2(9)
Gamble
v.
Chater
, 68 F.3d 319 (9th Cir. 1995)—Amputation of a Lower Extremity—When the Inability to Afford the Cost of a Prosthesis Meets the Requirements of Section 1.10C of the Listing of Impairments—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
January 13, 1997, at 62 FR 1791. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 97-3(1l)
Daniels on Behalf of Daniels
v.
Sullivan
, 979 F.2d 1516 (11th Cir. 1992)—Application of a State's Intestacy Law Requirement that Paternity be Established During the Lifetime of the Father—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
August 4, 1997, at 62 FR 41989.
AR 97-4(9)
Chavez
v.
Bowen
, 844 F.2d 691 (9th Cir. 1988)—Effect of a Prior Final Decision That a Claimant is Not Disabled, And of Findings Contained Therein, On Adjudication of a Subsequent Disability Claim Arising Under the Same Title of the Social Security Act—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
December 3, 1997, at 62 FR 64038.
AR 98-1(8)
Newton
v.
Chater
, 92 F.3d 688 (8th Cir. 1996)—Entitlement to Trial Work Period Before Approval of an Award for Benefits and Before Twelve Months Have Elapsed Since Onset of Disability—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
February 23, 1998, at 63 FR 9037. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 98-2(8)
Sird
v.
Chater
, 105 F.3d 401 (8th Cir. 1997)—Mental Retardation—What Constitutes an Additional and Significant Work-Related Limitation of Function—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
February 24, 1998, at 63 FR 9279. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 98-3(6)
Dennard
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 907 F.2d 598 (6th Cir. 1990)—Effect of a Prior Finding of the Demands of Past Work on Adjudication of a Subsequent Disability Claim Arising Under the Same Title of the Social Security Act—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
June 1, 1998. at 63 FR 29770. Rescinded— See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 98-4(6)
Drummond
v.
Commissioner of Social Security
, 126 F.3d 1337 (6th Cir. 1997)—Effect of Prior Findings on Adjudication of a Subsequent Disability Claim Arising Under the Same Title of the Social Security Act—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
June 1, 1998, at 63 FR 29771. Rescinded— See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 98-5(8)
State of Minnesota
v.
Apfel
, 151 F.3d 742 (8th Cir. 1998)—Coverage for Employees Under a Federal-State Section 218 Agreement or Modification and Application of the Student Services Exclusion From Coverage to Services Performed by Medical Residents—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
October 30, 1998, at 63 FR 58444.
AR 99-1(2)
Florez on Behalf of Wallace
v.
Callahan
, 156 F.3d 438 (2d Cir. 1998)—Supplemental Security Income—Deeming of Income From a Stepparent to a Child When the Natural Parent is Not Living In the Same Household—Title XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
February 1, 1999, at 64 FR 4923. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 99-2(8)
Kerns
v.
Apfel
, 160 F.3d 464 (8th Cir. 1998)—Definition of Highly Marketable Skills for Individuals Close to Retirement Age—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
March 11, 1999, at 64 FR 12205. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 99-3(5)
McQueen
v.
Apfel
, 168 F.3d 152 (5th Cir. 1999)—Definition of Highly Marketable Skills for Individuals Close to Retirement Age—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
May 27, 1999, at 64 FR 28853. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 99-4(11)
Bloodsworth
v.
Heckler
, 703 F.2d 1233 (11th Cir. 1983)—Judicial Review of an Appeals Council Dismissal of a Request for Review of an Administrative Law Judge Decision—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
October 26, 1999, at 64 FR 57687.

# Note:
The original AR for the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals' holding in
Bloodsworth
(AR 92-4(11)), issued April 8, 1992, was revised to delete a parenthetical statement and to update the AR?s language. These revisions were technical corrections only and did not involve any substantive changes.
AR 00-1(4)
Albright
v.
Commissioner of the Social Security Administration
, 174 F.3d 473 (4th Cir. 1999)—Effect of Prior Disability Findings on Adjudication of a Subsequent Disability Claim—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
January 12, 2000, at 65 FR 1936.
AR 00-2(7)
Hickman
v.
Apfel
, 187 F.3d 683 (7th Cir. 1999)—Evidentiary Requirements for Determining Medical Equivalence to a Listed Impairment—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
May 3, 2000, at 65 FR 25783. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 00-3(10)
Haddock
v.
Apfel
, 196 F.3d 1084 (l0th Cir. 1999)—Use of Vocational Expert Testimony and the Dictionary of Occupational Titles Under 20 CFR 404.1566, 416.966-Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
June 20, 2000, at 65 FR 38312. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 00-4(2)
Curry
v.
Apfel
, 209 F.3d 117 (2d Cir. 2000)—Burden of Proving Residual Functional Capacity at Step Five of the Sequential Evaluation Process for Determining Disabi1ity—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
September 11, 2000, at 65 FR 54879. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 00-5(6)
Salamalekis
v.
Apfel
, 221 F.3d 828 (6th Cir. 2000)—Entitlement to Trial Work Period Before Approval of an Award of Benefits and Before 12 Months Have Elapsed Since the Alleged Onset of Disability—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
November 15, 2000, at 65 FR 69116. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 01-1(3)
Sykes
v.
Apfel
, 228 F.3d 259 (3d Cir. 2000)—Using the Grid Rules as a Framework for Decisionmaking When an Individual's Occupational Base is Eroded by a Nonexertional Limitation—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
January 25, 2001, at 66 FR 7829.
AR 03-1(7)
Blakes
v.
Barnhart
, 331 F.3d 565 (7th Cir. 2003)—Cases Involving Sections 12.05 and 112.05 of the Listing of Impairments That Are Remanded By a Court for Further Proceedings Under Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
December 23, 2003, at 68 FR 74279.
AR 04-1(9)
Howard on behalf of Wolff
v.
Barnhart
, 341 F.3d 1006 (9th Cir. 2003)—Applicability of the Statutory Requirement for Pediatrician Review in Childhood Disability Cases to the Hearings and Appeals Levels of the Administrative Review Process Under Title XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
April 26, 2004, at 69 FR 22578.
AR 05-1(9)
Gillett-Netting
v.
Barnhart
, 371 F.3d 593 (9th Cir. 2004), rehearing denied, December 14, 2004—Applicability of State Law and the Social Security Act in Determining Whether a Child Conceived by Artificial Means after an Insured Person's Death is Eligible for Child's Insurance Benefits—Tit1e II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
September 22, 2005, at 70 FR 55656.
AR 06-1(2)
Fowlkes
v.
Adamec
, 432 F.3d 90 (2d Cir. 2005)—Determining Whether an Individual is a Fugitive Felon Under the Social Security Act (Act)—'I'itles II and XVI of the Act.
Published:
April 6, 2006, at 71 FR 17551.

# Rescissions Without Replacement ARs
AR. 86-l(9)
Summy
v.
Schweiker
, 688 F.2d 1233 (9th Cir. 1982)—Third party payments for medical care or services—Title XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
July 5, 1994, at 59 FR 34444.
AR 86-6(3)
Aubrey
v.
Richardson
, 462 F.2d 782 (3d Cir. 1972); Shelnutt v. Heckler, 723 F.2d 1131 (3d Cir. 1983)—Interpretation of the Secretary's Regulation Regarding Presumption of Death—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
July 14, 1995, at 60 FR 36327.
AR 86-7(5)
Autrey
v.
Harris
, 639 F.2d 1233 (5th Cir. 1981); Wages v. Schweiker, 659 F.2d 59 (5th Cir. 1981)—Interpretation of the Secretary's Regulation Regarding Presumption of Death—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
July 14, 1995, at 60 FR 36327.
AR 86-8(6)
Johnson
v.
Califano
, 607 F.2d 1178 (6th Cir. 1979)—Interpretation of the Secretary's Regulation Regarding Presumption of Death—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
July 14, 1995, at 60 FR 36327.
AR 86-9(9)
Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare
v.
Meza
, 386 F.2d 389 (9th Cir. 1966);
Gardner
v.
Wilcox
, 370 F.2d 492 (9th Cir. 1966)—Interpretation of the Secretary's Regulation Regarding Presumption of Death—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
July 14, 1995, at 60 FR 36327.
AR 86-10(10)
Edwards
v.
Califano
, 619 F.2d 865 (10th Cir. 1980)—Interpretation of the Secretary's Regulation Regarding Presumption of Death—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
July 14, 1995, at 60 FR 36327.
AR 86-11(11)
Autrey
v.
Harris
, 639 F.2d 1233 (5th Cir. 1981)—Interpretation of the Secretary's Regulation Regarding Presumption of Death—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
July 14, 1995, at 60 FR 36327.
AR 86-17(9)
Owens
v.
Schweiker
, 692 F.2d 80 (9th Cir. 1982)—Child?s Benefits—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
October 28, 1998, at 63 FR 57727.
AR 87-1(6)
Webb
v.
Richardson
, 472 F.2d 529 (6th Cir. 1972)—Attorneys' Fees—Single Fee, Not to Exceed 25 Percent of Past-Due Benefits, Set by Tribunal Which Ultimately Upho1ds the Claim—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
March 3, 1995, at 60 FR 11977.
AR 87-2(11)
Butterworth
v.
Bowen
, 796 F.2d 1379 (11th Cir. 1986)—The Conditions under Which the Appeals Council has the Right to Reopen and Revise Prior Decisions—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
July 7, 1998, at 63 FR 36726.
AR 87-3(9)
Hart
v.
Bowen
, 799 F.2d 567 (9th Cir. 1986)—Current Market Value of an Installment Sa1es Contract as an Excess Resource.
Notice of Rescission Published:
February 9, 1995, at 60 FR 7782.
AR 87-4(8)
Iamarino
v.
Heckler
, 795 F.2d 59 (8th Cir. 1986)—Positive Presumption of Substantial Gainful Activity (SGA) for Sheltered Work.
Notice of Rescission Published:
July 11, 2000, at 65 FR 42793.
AR 87-5(3)
Velazquez
v.
Heckler
, 802 F.2d 680 (3d Cir. 1986)—Consideration of Vocational Factors in Past Work Determination.
Notice of Rescission Published:
July 16, 1990, at 55 FR 28943.
AR 88-1(11)
Patterson
v.
Bowen
, 799 F.2d 1455 (11th Cir. 1986), rehearing denied, February 12, 1987—Use of the Age Factor in the Medical-Vocational Guidelines in Making Disability Decisions.
Notice of Rescission Published:
April 6, 2000, at 65 FR 18143.
AR 88-3(7)
McDonald
v.
Bowen
, 800 F.2d 153 (7th Cir. 1986), amended on rehearing, 818 F.2d 559 (7th Cir. 1987)—Entitlement to Benefits Where a Person Returns to Work Less Than 12 Months After Onset of Disability.
Notice of Rescission Published:
June 10, 2002, at 67 FR 39781.
AR 88-5(1)
McCuin
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 817 F.2d 161 (1st Cir. 1987)—Reopening by the Appeals Council of Decisions of Administrative Law Judges under Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
February 23, 1994, at 59 FR 8650.
AR 88-7(5)
Hickman
v.
Bowen
, 803 F.2d 1377 (5th Cir. 1986)—Evaluation of Loans of In-Kind Support and Maintenance for Supplemental Security Income Benefit Calculation Purposes.
Notice of Rescission Published:
September 8, 1992, at 57 FR 40918.
AR 90-1(9)
Paxton
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 856 F.2d 1352 (9th Cir.1988)—Treatment of Dependent's Portion of Augmented Veteran's Benefit Paid Directly To Veteran—Title XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
November 17, 1994, at 59 FR 59416.
AR 90-3(4)
Smith
v.
Bowen
, 837 F.2d 635 (4th Cir. 1987)—Use of Vocational Expert or Other Vocational Specialist in Determining Whether a Claimant Can Perform Past Relevant Work—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
August 26, 2003, at 68 FR 51317.
AR 90-5(2)
Kier
v.
Sullivan
, 888 F.2d 244 (2d Cir. 1989), rehearing denied, January 22, 1990—Assessment of Residual Functional Capacity in Disabled Widows? Cases—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
May 22, 1991, at 56 FR 23592.
AR 90-6(1)
Cassas
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 393 F.2d 454 (1st Cir. 1990), rehearing denied, April 9, l990—Assessment of Residual Functional Capacity in Disabled Widows' Cases—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
May 22, 1991, at 56 FR 23591.
AR 90-7(9)
Ruff
v.
Sullivan
, 907 F.2d 915 (9th Cir. 1990)—Assessment of Residual Functional Capacity in Disabled Widows' Cases—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
May 22, 1991, at 56 FR 23592.
AR 92-3(4)
Branham
v.
Heckler
, 775 F.2d 1271 (4th Cir. 1985);
Flowers
v.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
, 904 F.2d 211 (4th Cir. 1990)—What Constitutes a Significant Work-Related Limitation of Function.
Notice of Rescission Published:
August 21, 2000, at 65 FR 50784.
AR 92-6(10)
Walker
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 943 F.2d 1257 (10th Cir. 1991)—Entitlement to Trial Work Period Before Approval of an Award for Benefits and Before Twelve Months Have Elapsed Since Onset of Disability-Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
June 10, 2002, at 67 FR 39871.
AR 93-l(4)
Branham
v.
Heckler
, 775 F.2d 1271 (4th Cir. 1985);
Flowers
v.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
, 904 F.2d 211 (4th Cir. 1990)—What Constitutes an Additional and Significant Work-Related Limitation of Function—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
August 21, 2000, at 65 FR 50784.
AR 93-2(2)
Conley
v.
Bowen
, 859 F.2d 261 (3d Cir. 1988)—Determination of Whether an Individual With a Disabling Impairment Has Engaged in Substantial Gainful Activity Following a Reentitlement Period—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
August 10, 2000, at 65 FR 42793.
AR 93-3(6)
Akers
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 966 F.2d 205 (6th Cir. 1992)—Attorney's Fees Based in Part on Continued Benefits Paid to Social Security Claimants—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
April 14, 2000, at 65 FR 20239.
AR 93-4(2)
Condon and Brodner
v.
Bowen
, 853 F.2d 66 (2d Cir. 1988)—Attorney's Fees Based in Part on Continued Benefits Paid to Social Security Claimants—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
April 14, 2000, at 65 FR 20239.
AR 93-5(11)
Shoemaker
v.
Bowen
, 853 F.2d 858 (11th Cir.1988)—Attorney's Fees Based in Part on Continued Benefits Paid to Social Security Claimants—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
April 14, 2000, at 65 FR 20239.
AR 93-6(8)
Brewster on Behalf of Keller
v.
Sullivan
, 972 F.2d 898 (8th Cir. 1992)—Interpretation of the Secretary's Regulation Regarding Presumption of Death—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
July 14, 1995, at 60 FR 36327.
AR 94-2(4)
Lively
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 820 F.2d 1391 (4th Cir. 1987)—Effect of Prior Disability Findings on Adjudication of a Subsequent Disability Claim Arising Under the Same Title of the Social Security Act—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
January 12, 2000, at 65 FR 1936.
AR 95-1(6)
Preslar
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 14 F.3d 1107 (6th Cir. 1994)—Definition of Highly Marketable Skills for Individuals Close to Retirement Age—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
April 6, 2000, at 65 FR 18144.
AR 97-1(1)
Parisi By Cooney
v.
Chater
, 69 F.3d 814 (1st Cir. 1995)—Reduction of Benefits Under the Family Maximum In Cases Involving Dual Entitlement—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
October 27, 1999, at 64 FR 57919.
AR 97-2(9)
Gamble
v.
Chater
, 68 F.3d 319 (9th Cir. 1995)—Amputation of a Lower Extremity—When the Inability to Afford the Cost or a Prosthesis Meets the Requirements of Section 1.10C of the Listing of Impairments—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
November 19, 2001, at 66 FR 58047.
AR 98-1(8)
Newton
v.
Chater
, 92 F.3d 688 (8th Cir. 1996)—Entitlement to Trial Work Period Before Approval of an Award for Benefits and Before Twelve Months Have Elapsed Since Onset of Disability—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
June 10, 2002, at 67 FR 39781.
AR 98-2(8)
Sird
v.
Chater
, 105 F.3d 401 (8th Cir. 1997)—Mental Retardation—What Constitutes an Additional and Significant Work-Related Limitation of Function—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
August 21, 2000, at 65 FR 50784.
AR 99-1(2)
Florez on Behalf of Wallace
v.
Callahan
, 156 F.3d 438 (2d Cir. 1998)—Supplemental Security Income—Deeming of Income From a Stepparent to a Child When the Natural Parent is Not Living in the Same Household—Title XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
May 15, 2008, at 73 FR 28181.
AR 99-2(8)
Kerns
v.
Apfel
, 160 F.3d 164 (8th Cir. 1998)—Definition of Highly Marketable Skills for Individuals Close to Retirement Age-Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
April 6, 2000, at 65 FR 18144.
AR 99-3(5)
McQueen
v.
Apfel
, 168 F.3d 152 (5th Cir. 1999)—Definition of Highly Marketable Skills for Individuals Close to Retirement Age—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
April 6, 2000, at 65 FR 18144.
AR 00-2(7)
Hickman
v.
Apfel
, 187 F.3d 683 (7th Cir. 1999)—Evidentiary Requirements for Determining Medical Equivalence to a Listed Impairment—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
March 1, 2006, at 71 FR 10584.
AR 00-3(10)
Haddock
v.
Apfel
, 196 F.3d 1084 (10th Cir. 1999)—Use of Vocational Expert Testimony and the Dictionary of Occupational Titles Under 20 CFR 404.1566, 416.966—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
December 4, 2000, at 65 FR 75758.
AR 00-4(2)
Curry
v.
Apfel
, 209 F.3d 117 (2d Cir. 2000)—Burden of Proving Residual Functional Capacity at Step Five of the Sequential Evaluation Process
for Determining Disability—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
August 26, 2003, at 68 FR 51317.
AR 00-5(6)
Salamalekis
v.
Apfel
, 221 F.3d 828 (6th Cir. 2000)—Entitlement to Trial Work Period Before Approval of an Award of Benefits and Before 12 Months Have Elapsed Since the Alleged Onset of Disability—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
June 10, 2002, at 67 FR 39781.
AR 12-1(8)
Petersen
v.
Astrue
, 633 F.3d 633 (8th Cir. 2011)—Whether a National Guard Technician Who Worked in Noncovered Employment is Exempt from the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP)—Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
August 27, 2012, at 77 FR 51842.
Correction Notice Published:
September, 5, 2012 at 77 FR 54646.
AR 14-1(8)
Brock
v.
Astrue
, 674 F.3d 1062 (8th Cir.2012)—Requiring Vocational Specialist (VS) or Vocational Expert (VE) Evidence When an Individual has a Severe Mental Impairment(s)—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
May 22, 2014, at 79 FR 29473.
AR 15-1(4)
Radford
v.
Colvin
, 734 F.3d 288 (4th Cir. 2013)—Standard for Meeting Section 1.04A of the Listing of Impairments for Disorders of the Spine with Evidence of Nerve Root Compression—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
September 23, 2015, at 80 FR 57418.
AR 16-1(7)
Boley
v.
Colvin
, 761 F.3d 803 (7th Cir. 2014)—Judicial Review of an Administrative Law Judge's Order Finding No Good Cause for a Late Hearing Request and Dismissing the Request as Untimely—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
March 14, 2016, at 81 FR 13438.
AR 19-1(6)
Hicks
v.
Commissioner of Social Security Administration
, 909 F.3d 786 (6th Cir. 2018), rehearing en banc denied, March 29, 2019—Disregarding Evidence During Redeterminations Under Sections 205(u) and 1631(e)(7) of the Social Security Act.
Published:
February 4, 2020, at 85 FR 6255.
AR 24-1(6)
Earley
v.
Commissioner of Social Security
, 893 F.3d 929 (6th Cir.2018) (Interpreting Drummond v. Commissioner of Social Security, 126 F.3d 837 (6th Cir. 1997)— Effect of Prior Disability Findings on Adjudication of a Subsequent Disability Claim—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
November 25, 2024
Effective:
December 2, 2024, at 89 FR 92995.
AR 86-3(5)
Martinez
v.
Heckler
, 735 F.2d 795 (5th Cir. 1984)—Disability Program)—Individuals Who Are Illiterate and Unable to Communicate in English-Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
June 4, 1986, at 51 FR 20354. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 86-3(5)
Martinez
v.
Heckler
, 735 F.2d 795 (5th Cir. 1984)—Disability Program)—Individuals Who Are Illiterate and Unable to Communicate in English-Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
February 25, 2020, at 85 FR 10806.
AR 15-1(4)
Radford
v.
Colvin
, 734 F.3d 288 (4th Cir. 2013)—Disability Program)—Standard for Meeting the Listing for Disorders of the Spine with Evidence of Nerve Root Compression -Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Published:
September 23, 2015, at 80 FR 57418. Rescinded—See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 15-1(4)
Radford
v.
Colvin
, 734 F.3d 288 (4th Cir. 2013)—Disability Program)— Standard for Meeting the Listing for Disorders of the Spine with Evidence of Nerve Root Compression -Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
December 8, 2020, at 85 FR 79063.
AR 12-1(8)
Petersen
v.
Astrue
, 633 F.3d 633 (8th Cir. 2011)— Whether a National Guard Technician Who Worked in Noncovered Employment is Exempt from the Windfall Elimination Provision
(WEP)— Title II of the Social Security Act.
Published:
August 27, 2012, at 77 FR 51842. Rescinded— See section on Rescissions in this notice.
AR 12-1(8)
Petersen
v.
Astrue
, 633 F.3d 633 (8th Cir. 2011)— Whether a National Guard Technician Who Worked in Noncovered Employment is Exempt from the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP)— Title II of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Published:
September 19, 2022, at 87 FR 57246.
AR 98-3(6)
Dennard
v.
Secretary of Health and Human Services
, 907 F.3d 598 (6th Cir. 1990)— Effect of a Prior Finding of the Demands of Past Work on Adjudication of a Subsequent Disability Claim Arising Under the Same Title of the Social Security Act—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Effective:
December 2, 2024, at 89 FR 92992.
AR 98-4(6)
Drummond
v.
Commissioner of Social Security
, 126 F.3d 837 (6th Cir. 1997)—Effect of Prior Findings on Adjudication of a Subsequent Disability Claim Arising Under the Same Title of the Social Security Act—Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act.
Notice of Rescission Effective:
December 2, 2024, at 89 FR 92992.
20 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
20 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter III
404.2 (b) revised
73156
404.501 (a) introductory text amended; interim
52914
404.506 (b) through (h) redesignated as (c) through (i); new (b) added; interim
52914
404.507 Introductory text amended; interim
52914
404.929 Revised
73156
404.955 Heading revised; (c) through (f) redesignated as (d) through (g); new (c) added
73157
404.956 Revised
73157
404.966 Removed
73157
404.970 (a) revised
73157
404.973 Revised
73157
404.976 Heading and (b) revised; (c) added
73157
404.983 Revised
73157
404.984 Revised
73158
404.999c (d)(3)(i)(C) revised
73158
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Appendix 1 amended
10279
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Appendix 2 amended; eff. 4-27-20
10602
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Appendix 1 amended
30844
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Appendix 1 amended; eff. 4-2-21
78175
404.1564 (b) introductory text and (5) amended; (b)(6) redesignated as (c); new (c) amended; eff. 4-27-20
10602
404.2018 Added
7664
404.2020 (e) and (f) revised; (g) added
7664
404.2021 Introductory text revised
7664
408.110 (b) revised
73158
408.601—408.665 (Subpart F) Authority citation revised
7665
408.618 Added
7665
408.902 Existing text designated as (a); (b) added; interim
52914
408.910 (c) added; interim
52914
408.912 (c) added; interim
52914
411.175 (a) revised
73159
416.120 (b) revised
73159
416.537 (c) added; interim
52915
416.550 (c) added; interim
52915
416.552 Introductory text amended; interim
52915
416.601—416.665 (Subpart F) Authority citation revised
7665
416.618 Added
7665
416.620 (e) and (f) revised; (g) added
7665
416.621 Introductory text revised
7665
416.964 (b) introductory text and (5) amended; (b)(6) redesignated as (c); new (c) amended; eff. 4-27-20
10603
416.1429 Revised
73159
416.1455 Heading revised; (c) through (f) redesignated as (d) through (g); new (c) added
73159
416.1456 Revised
73159
416.1466 Removed
73159
416.1470 (a) revised
73160
416.1473 Revised
73160
416.1476 Heading and (b) revised; (c) added
73160
416.1483 Revised
73160
416.1484 Revised
73160
416.1498 (d)(3)(i)(C) revised
73161
422.201—422.210 (Subpart C) Heading revised
73161
422.201 Introductory text revised
73161
422.203 (b) and (c) revised
73161
422.205 Revised
73161
422.210 (a) revised; (e) added
73162
426 Added
51339
2021
20 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter III
404.315 (a)(4) revised
48021
404.317 Amended
48021
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Appendix 1 amended (temporary)
38925
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Appendix 1 amended
41383, 64069, 70729
426 Removed
20632
2022
20 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter III
401.85 (b)(2)(ii)(H) added
25141
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Appendix 1 amended
26270, 42643
404.2065 Revised
35653
408.665 Revised
35653
416.665 Revised
35654
2023
20 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter III
401.70 (a), (b)(1), (2)(i) through (iii), and (c) amended
1329
403.120 (c) revised
1329
403.125 Amended
1329
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Authority citation revised; eff. through 5-11-25
67088
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Appendix 1 amended
37731
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Appendix 1 amended; eff. through 5-11-25
67088
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Correction: Appendix 1 amended
57004, 55366
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) CFR correction: Appendix I amended
85104
422.848 (b)(4) amended
1329
423.1 Revised
1329
423.3 Revised
1330
423.7 Revised
1330
429 Authority citation revised
1330
429.102 (c) revised
1330
429.107 (b) revised
1330
429.201 (d)(3) revised
1330
429.202 (b) revised
1330
2024
20 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter III
402 Revised
102711
404 Policy statement
48138
404 Authority citation revised
67554
404.701—404.780 (Subpart H) Authority citation revised
107258
404.702 Amended
107258
404.703 Revised
107258
404.929 Revised
68360
404.936 Heading and (a) through (d) revised; (e) and (f) redesignated as (f) and (g); new (e) added
68360
404.937 (b)(2)(ii) and (c) revised; (e) added
68361
404.938 (b)(5) revised
68362
404.944 Revised
68362
404.950 (a) revised; (e) amended
68362
404.976 (c) revised
68362
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Authority citation revised
107259
404.1560 (b)(1) revised; eff. 6-8-24
27667
404.1565 Revised; eff. 6-8-24
27667
404.1588 Revised
107259
404.1703 Amended
67554
404.1705 (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added; new (d) revised
67554
404.1707 Revised
67554
404.1720 (f) added
67554
404.1730 (b) heading and (1) introductory text revised; (b)(1)(i) and (ii) redesignated as (b)(1)(iii) and (iv); new (b)(1)(i), (ii), and (e) added
67554
404.1735 Added
67555
404.1740 (c)(15) added
67555
416 Policy statement
48138
416.701—416.732 (Subpart G) Authority citation revised
107259
416.701 (a) amended
107259
416.702 Amended
107259
416.708 (c) revised
107259
416.709 Added
107260
416.901—416.999d (Subpart I) Authority citation revised
107260
416.960 (b)(1) revised; eff. 6-8-24
27667
416.965 Revised; eff. 6-8-24
27667
416.988 Revised
107260
416.1110—416.1171 (Subpart K) Authority citation revised
25514
416.1102 Revised; eff. 9-30-24
21209
416.1103 (a)(4), (b)(2), (g)
Example
, and (j) revised; eff. 9-30-24
21209
416.1104 Amended; eff. 9-30-24
21209
416.1121 (h) revised; eff. 9-30-24
21209
416.1130 Revised; eff. 9-30-24
21209
416.1130 (b)(1) revised
25514
416.1131 (a)(1) and (2) revised; (a)(3) added; eff. 9-30-24
21210
416.1133 (a) and (c) amended; eff. 9-30-24
21210
416.1140 Revised; eff. 9-30-24
21210
416.1141 Introductory text, (a), and (b) revised; eff. 9-30-24
21210
416.1142 (a) introductory text, (6), and (7) revised; (a)(8) added; eff. 9-30-24
28622
416.1147 (a), (b) heading, and (c) revised; (b)(1) and (d)(1) amended; eff. 9-30-24
21210
416.1148 (b) revised; eff. 9-30-24
21211
416.1149 (c)(1) revised; eff. 9-30-24
21211
416.1429 Revised
68362
416.1436 Heading and (a) through (d) revised; (e) and (f) redesignated as (f) and (g); new (e) added
68362
416.1437 (b)(2)(ii) and (c) revised; (e) added
68363
416.1438 (b)(5) revised
68363
416.1444 Revised
68363
416.1450 (a) revised; (e) amended
68364
416.1476 (c) revised
68364
416.1500—416.1599 (Subpart O) Authority citation revised
67555
416.1503 Amended
67555
416.1505 (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added; new (d) revised
67555
416.1507 Revised
67555
416.1520 (f) added
67555
416.1530 (b) heading and (1) introductory text revised; (b)(1)(i) through (iii) and (e) redesignated as new (b)(1)(iii) through (v) and (f); new (b)(1)(i), new (ii), and new (e) added
67555
416.1535 Added
67556
416.1540 (c)(15) added
67556
422.101—422.140 (Subpart B) Authority citation revised
107260
422.150 Added
107261
422.501—422.527 (Subpart F) Authority citation revised
67556
422.515 Heading revised; Form SSA-1696 and Form SSA-1699 amended
67556
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
20 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter III
404.1501—404.1599 (Subpart P) Appendix 1 amended; eff. through 5-11-29
5590
○
