(g) Any person issuing a guaranty for one or more carpets or rugs or qualities thereof based on reasonable and representative tests, shall maintain the following records for a period of 3 years from the date the tests were performed, or in the case of paragraph (h) of this section, the date the guaranties were
furnished. These records must be maintained in the United States by a person subject to section 3 of the act:
(1) All identifying numbers, symbols, etc., manufacturing specifications including all other information described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, as applicable, and source of products or raw materials used therein.
(2) A physical sample of each carpet or rug or quality thereof covered by the guaranty at least 6 inches by 6 inches in size (36 square inches).
(3) The original or a copy of the report of each test performed for purposes of the guaranty (whether or not such report shows a meeting of the acceptance criterion) which shall disclose the date of the test, the results, and sufficient information to clearly identify the carpet or rug tested.
(4) A record applicable to each test in paragraph (g)(3) of this section showing the approximate yardage at which it was performed. Records otherwise required to be maintained in linear yards may be maintained in square yards on the basis of 4 square yards equals 1 linear yard.
(h) Persons furnishing guaranties based on guaranties received by them shall maintain records showing the guaranty received and identification of the carpet or rug or quality thereof guaranteed in turn by them.
(i) Any person furnishing a carpet or rug guaranty under section 8(a) of the act who neglects or refuses to maintain and preserve the records prescribed in this section shall be deemed to have furnished a false guaranty under the provisions of section 8(b) of the act.
(Sec. 5 of the Act, 67 Stat. 112, as amended by 81 Stat. 570, 15 U.S.C. 1194; sec. 8 of the Act, 67 Stat. 114, as amended by 81 Stat. 572, 15 U.S.C. 1197)
§ 1631.32
Reasonable and representative tests and recordkeeping requirements—additional requirements.
(a) Persons issuing guaranties under section 8(a) of the act for small carpets and rugs subject to FF 2-70 shall be subject to all of the requirements of § 1631.31 except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) In lieu of performing tests and maintaining records on the basis of linear yards or square yards as provided in § 1631.31 persons furnishing warranties for small carpets and rugs subject to FF 2-70 shall perform tests and maintain records on the basis of units of carpets or rugs, with “unit” being defined as a single carpet or rug, or on the basis of square yards. At least one test shall be performed upon commencement of production, importation, or other receipt of such small carpet or rug and every 25,000 units or square yards thereafter.
(Sec. 5 of the Act, 67 Stat. 112, as amended by 81 Stat. 570, 15 U.S.C. 1194; sec. 8 of the Act, 67 Stat. 114, as amended by 81 Stat. 572, 15 U.S.C. 1197)
§ 1631.33
Carpets and rugs with fire-retardant treatment.
(a) For the purposes of this section the following definitions apply:
(1)
Small carpet
and
small rug
means “small carpet” and “small rug” as defined in § 1631.1(c).
(2)
Fire-retardant treatment
means “fire-retardant treatment” as defined in the Standard in subpart A of this part.
(b) If a carpet or rug or small carpet or rug is manufactured, imported, or otherwise marketed or handled which has had a fire-retardant treatment or is made of fibers which have had a fire-retardant treatment, the letter “T” shall be set forth legibly and conspicuously, and shall appear at all times, on each label and/or invoice relating thereto pursuant to the requirements of the Textile Fiber Products Indentification Act, 15 U.S.C. section 70,
et seq.,
and the rules and regulations thereunder, whether or not such letter “T” appears elsewhere on said product. Samples, pieces, rolls, or squares used to promote or effect the sale of such carpet or rug are subject to the aforementioned requirements. As provided in the applicable portions of the aforesaid Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, where a carpet or rug or a small carpet or rug which has had a fire-retardant treatment or is made of fibers which have had a fire-retardant treatment, is sold to an ultimate consumer and was either custom made or commercially installed for such consumer, the labeling required by this section shall not apply with respect to
the carpet or rug if an invoice or other paper relating thereto, containing the letter “T”, legibly and conspicuously written, is delivered to the consumer in due course of business.
(c) No person subject to the Flammable Fabrics Act shall manufacture, import, distribute, or otherwise market or handle any carpet or rug or small carpet or rug, including samples, swatches, or specimens used to promote or effect the sale thereof, which is not in compliance with this section.
§ 1631.34
Small carpets and rugs not meeting acceptance criterion.
(a) If any small carpet or rug as defined in the Standard for the Surface Flammability of Small Carpets and Rugs (pill test) FF 2-70, is manufactured, imported, or otherwise marketed or handled and does not meet the acceptance criterion of such standard, it shall, prior to its introduction into commerce, be legibly and conspicuously labeled with a permanent label which sets forth the following statement:
“FLAMMABLE (FAILS U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE STANDARD FF 2-70): SHOULD NOT BE USED NEAR SOURCES OF IGNITION.”
The required cautionary statement may be set out on or affixed to the small carpet or rug on the same label as the fiber content label required to be affixed under the Textile Fiber Products Identification Act, if said label is permanent, or said statement shall be set forth on a separate permanent label on or affixed to the small carpet or rug in immediate proximity to the said required label under the Textile Fiber Products Identification Act. A label on the front of a small carpet or rug shall be considered to be in immediate proximity to a label on the back, provided they are directly opposite each other and are in immediate proximity to the edge of the small carpet or rug.
(b) Such cautionary statements shall also appear in a conspicuous manner in all advertisements in which said small carpets or rugs are being offered for sale through direct mail, telephone solicitation, or under any other circumstances where the consumer, in the ordinary course of dealing, will not have an opportunity to inspect the label before receiving the merchandise. The phrase “Flammable—Read The Label” shall conspicuously appear in all other advertisements of small carpets or rugs which do not meet the acceptance criterion of the standard.
(c) The information required by this section shall be set forth separately from any other information, representations, or disclosures appearing on the same label or elsewhere on the small carpet or rug, and any such other information, representations, or disclosures shall in no way interfere with, minimize, detract from, or conflict with the information required by this section.
(d) Samples, swatches, or specimens used to promote or effect the sale of small carpets or rugs shall be labeled with the information required by this section, in addition to the label required to be affixed to the small carpets or rugs.
(e) Where small carpets or rugs are marketed at retail in packages, and the labeling information required by this section is not readily visible to prospective purchasers, the packages must also be prominently, conspicuously, and legibly labeled with the information required by this section.
(f) No person, other than the ultimate consumer, shall remove, mutilate, or cause or participate in the removal or mutilation of any affixed labeling information required by this section.
(g) No person subject to the Flammable Fabrics Act shall manufacture, import, distribute, or otherwise market or handle any small carpet or rug, including samples, swatches, or specimens used to promote or effect the sale thereof, which is not in compliance with this section.

# Subpart C—Washing Procedures

# Authority:
Secs. 4, 5, 67 Stat. 112, as amended, 81 Stat. 569-70; 15 U.S.C. 1193, 1194.
§ 1631.61
Hide carpets and rugs—alternative washing procedure.
(a) The Standard for the Surface Flammability of Carpets and Rugs (FF 1-70) at § 1630.4(b)(1)(ii) provides that if a carpet or rug has had a fire-retardant treatment, or is made of fibers which have had a fire-retardant treatment,
the sample or oversized specimens thereof selected for testing under the standard shall be washed prior to the cutting of test specimens either 10 times under the washing and drying procedure prescribed in Method 124-1996 of the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists or such number of times under such other washing and drying procedure as shall previously have been found to be equivalent by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. AATCC Test Method 124-1996 “Appearance of Fabrics after Repeated Home Laundering,” is found in Technical Manual of the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, vol. 73, 1997, which is incorporated by reference. Copies of this document are available from the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, P.O. Box 12215, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709. This document is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Alternatively the selected sample or oversized specimens thereof may be washed, dry-cleaned, or shampooed 10 times, prior to the cutting of test specimens, in such manner as the manufacturer or other interested party has previously established to the satisfaction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission is normally used for that type of carpet or rug in service.
(b) On February 10, 1972 (37 FR 3010) the Federal Trade Commission published in the
Federal Register
a notice of approval of an alternative washing procedure under FF 2-70 for testing the flammability of shearling and hide rugs that (1) consist of natural wool or hair attached to the hide with no synthetic fibers and (2) have been treated with a fire-retardant finish. The notice of approval was corrected on March 17, 1972 (37 FR 5676). This approval is continued in effect by the Consumer Product Safety Commission pursuant to section 30(e) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2079(e)).
(c) Any hide carpet or rug for which such alternative procedure is utilized must be labeled with a conspicuous, legible and permanent label containing the following statement:

# DO NOT WASH OR DRY CLEAN
This rug has been treated with a flame retardant. To keep rug attractive and clean use the following methods:
To eliminate loose dirt or dust, vacuum or shake pelt outdoors.
For spot cleaning, use water dampened cloth and rub lightly in one direction.

# DO NOT USE DETERGENTS OR OTHER STAIN REMOVERS
(d) The alternative procedure is as follows: The test specimens shall be cut to size 9″ × 9″ before the procedure is initiated.
(1) Shake specimen vigorously to remove any loose fibers, dust and possible accumulated debris.
(2) Place specimen on a solid flat surface and anchor or hold firmly while conducting the test.
(3) Select an operating applicator consisting of a rod at least 2″ in diameter and 9″ long composed of nonabsorbent material such as glass or plastic.
(4) Select sufficient cloth to form at least five layers when wrapped around the operating applicator. The cloth shall be of the type known as “Crockmeter Test Cloth” as specified in Note 8.3 of AATCC Test Method 8-1969.
(5) Immerse cloth in water (100 °F.) until thoroughly wetted.
(6) Manually wring out the cloth to remove all excess water and wrap around the operating applicator.
(7) Immediately, with light pressure, stroke entire surface of specimen with the wrapped operating applicator in one direction only along the natural “lay” of the hair structure for ten complete strokes.
(8) Place test specimen in a circulating drying oven maintained at 212 °F. until dry.
(9) Repeat the above procedure 10 times using a fresh or clean cloth each time.
(10) After 10 successive cycles of washing and drying the dried specimens shall be subjected to the testing procedures (pill test) as outlined in FF 2-70.
(e) This washing procedure and labeling provision are subject to revision or revocation should it be determined that such procedure is inadequate to fully protect the public.
[40 FR 59935, Dec. 30, 1975, as amended at 65 FR 12934, Mar. 10, 2000]
§ 1631.62
Wool flokati carpets and rugs—alternative washing procedure.
(a) The Standard for the Surface Flammability of Carpets and Rugs (FF 1-70) at § 1630.4(b)(1)(ii) provides that if a carpet or rug has had a fire-retardant treatment, or is made of fibers which have had a fire-retardant treatment, the sample or oversized specimens thereof selected for testing under the standard shall be washed prior to the cutting of test specimens either 10 times under the washing and drying procedure prescribed in Method 124-1996 of the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists or such number of times under such other washing and drying procedure as shall previously have been found to be equivalent by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. AATCC Test Method 124-1996 “Appearance of Fabrics after Repeated Home Laundering,” is found in Technical Manual of the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, vol. 73, 1997, which is incorporated by reference. Copies of this document are available from the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, P.O. Box 12215, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709. This document is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Alternatively the selected sample or oversized specimens thereof may be washed, dry-cleaned, or shampooed 10 times, prior to the cutting of test specimens, in such manner as the manufacturer or other interested party has previously established to the satisfaction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission is normally used for that type of carpet or rug in service.
(b) On September 7, 1972 (37 FR 18122) the Federal Trade Commission published in the
Federal Register
a notice of approval of an alternative washing procedure under FF 2-70 for testing the flammability of wool flokati carpets and rugs. This approval is continued in effect by the Consumer Product Safety Commission pursuant to section 30(e) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2079(e)).
(c) Any wool flokati carpet or rug for which such alternative procedure is utilized must be labeled with a conspicuous, legible and permanent label containing the following statement:

# Do Not Wash in Home Machine or Dry Clean—Avoid Rubbing or Brushing While Damp
This Flokati carpet or rug has been treated with a flame retardant. To maintain this flame retardant and to keep the carpet attractive and clean, use the following methods.
1. Vacuum (using suction head without rotating brush) or shake the rug (depending upon size) to remove loose dirt.
2. Home laundering: Place in bath tub or other suitable receptacle in solution of home detergent and lukewarm water (approximately 105 °F.). Immerse face down and gently knead back of rug to remove soil. Rinse in lukewarm water (approximately 105 °F.) until detergent is removed. Rug may then be rinsed again in cool water to improve appearance of face if desired. Line dry. Shake while damp to restore surface and fluff up fibers.
3. Spot cleaning: Remove greasy stains with a household grease remover. Remove soluble stains with lukewarm water (approximately 105 °F.) and detergent by immersing spot in a pan and kneading the back of rug. Rinse thoroughly in lukewarm water. Line or floor dry. Shake while damp to restore surface and fluff up fibers.
4. Commercial cleaning: Use Roll-A-Jet equipment (or equivalent) with water not exceeding 105 °F. Avoid use of excessive pressure or reciprocating brushes. Drying temperatures should not exceed 200 °F.
(d) The alternative procedure is as follows:
(1) Cut test specimens to an oversize 12″ × 12″ before the procedure is initiated.
(2) Vacuum specimens or shake vigorously to remove any loose fibers, dust or possible accumulated debris.
(3) Place individual specimen face down in a shallow pan which has been filled to a depth of 2” with a wash solution of 1.1 grams of AATCC (American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists) Standard Detergent as specified in AATCC Method 124-1996 (or equivalent) per liter of water preheated to 105 °F. Knead the back of the specimen with hand for 1 minute. Water level and temperature should be maintained for each specimen.
(4) Thoroughly rinse specimen face down with warm water at 105 °F. for 1 minute under a faucet with strong pressure.
(5) Remove excess liquor by use of a wringer, hydroextractor or gentle hand squeezing and dry in circulating air oven at 200 °F. until dry.
(6) Repeat the above procedure 10 times using fresh detergent and fresh water for each set of eight specimens.
(7) Subject the dry specimens to the test procedures in FF 2-70.
(e) This washing procedure and labeling provisions are subject to revocation should it be determined that such procedure is inadequate to fully protect the public.
[40 FR 59935, Dec. 30, 1975, as amended at 65 FR 12934, Mar. 10, 2000]
Pt. 1632

# PART 1632—STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF MATTRESSES AND MATTRESS PADS (FF 4-72, AMENDED)

# Subpart A—The Standard
Sec.
1632.1
Definitions.
1632.2
Purpose, scope and applicability.
1632.3
General requirements.
1632.4
Mattress test procedure.
1632.5
Mattress pad test procedure.
1632.6
Ticking substitution procedure.
1632.7
Tape edge substitution procedure.
1632.8
Glossary of terms.

# Subpart B—Rules and Regulations
1632.31
Mattresses/mattress pads—labeling, recordkeeping, guaranties and “one of a kind” exemption.

# Subpart C—Interpretations and Policies
1632.61-1632.62
[Reserved]
1632.63
Policy clarification on renovation of mattress.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1193, 1194; 15 U.S.C. 2079(b).

# Source:
49 FR 39796, Oct. 10, 1984, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—The Standard
§ 1632.1
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions given in section 2 of the Flammable Fabrics Act as amended (15 U.S.C. 1191), the following definitions apply for the purpose of the standard.
(a)
Mattress
means a ticking filled with a resilient material used alone or in combination with other products intended or promoted for sleeping upon.
(1) This definition includes, but is not limited to, adult mattresses, youth mattresses, crib mattresses including portable crib mattresses, bunk bed mattresses, futons, water beds and air mattresses which contain upholstery material between the ticking and the mattress core, and any detachable mattresses used in any item of upholstered furniture such as convertible sofa bed mattresses, corner group mattresses, day bed mattresses, roll-a-way bed mattresses, high risers, and trundle bed mattresses. See § 1632.8 Glossary of terms, for definitions of these items.
(2) This definition excludes sleeping bags, pillows, mattress foundations, liquid and gaseous filled tickings such as water beds and air mattresses which do not contain upholstery material between the ticking and the mattress core, upholstered furniture which does not contain a detachable mattress such as chaise lounges, drop-arm love seats, press-back lounges, push-back sofas, sleep lounges, sofa beds (including jackknife sofa beds), sofa lounges (including glide-outs), studio couches and studio divans (including twin studio divans and studio beds), and juvenile product pads such as car bed pads, carriage pads, basket pads, infant carrier and lounge pads, dressing table pads, stroller pads, crib bumpers, and playpen pads. See § 1632.8 Glossary of terms, for definitions of these items.
(b)
Mattress Pad
means a thin, flat mat or cushion, and/or ticking filled with resilient material for use on top of a mattress. This definition includes, but is not limited to, absorbent mattress pads, flat decubitus pads, and convoluted foam pads which are totally enclosed in ticking. This definition excludes convoluted foam pads which are not totally encased in ticking.
(c)
Ticking
means the outermost layer of fabric or related material that encloses the core and upholstery materials of a mattress or mattress pad. A mattress ticking may consist of several layers of fabric or related materials quilted together.
(d)
Core
means the main support system that may be present in a mattress, such as springs, foam, hair block, water bladder, air bladder, or resilient filling.
(e)
Upholstery material
means all material, either loose or attached, between the mattress or mattress pad ticking and the core of a mattress, if a core is present.
(f)
Tape edge
(edge) means the seam or border edge of a mattress or mattress pad.
(g)
Quilted
means stitched with thread or by fusion through the ticking and one or more layers of upholstery material.
(h)
Tufted
means buttoned or laced through the ticking and upholstery material and/or core, or having the ticking and upholstery material and/or core drawn together at intervals by any other method which produces a series of depressions on the surface.
(i)
Manufacturer
means an individual plant or factory at which mattresses and/or mattress pads are produced or assembled.
(j)
Mattress prototype
means mattresses of a particular design, sharing all materials and methods of assembly, but excluding differences in mattress size. If it has been shown as a result of prototype qualification testing that an upholstery material or core will not reduce the ignition resistance of the mattress prototype, substitution of another material for such material shall not be deemed a difference in materials for prototype definition. (See § 1632.31(c)(4) for records required to demonstrate that a change of materials has not reduced ignition resistance of a mattress prototype.) If it is determined or suspected that a material has influenced the ignition resistance of the mattress prototype, a change in that material, excluding an increase in thickness, shall be deemed a difference in materials for purposes of prototype definition unless it is previously shown to the satisfaction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission that such change will not reduce the ignition resistance of the mattress prototype. Ticking materials may be substituted in accordance with § 1632.6. Tape edge materials may be substituted in accordance with § 1632.7.
(k)
Mattress pad prototype
means mattress pads of a particular design, sharing all materials and methods of assembly, but excluding differences in mattress pad size. A change in existing material, except an increase in thickness, shall be deemed a difference in materials for purposes of prototype definition unless it is previously shown to the satisfaction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission that such change will not reduce the ignition resistance of the mattress pad prototype. Ticking materials may be substituted in accordance with § 1632.6. Tape edge materials may be substituted in accordance with § 1632.7.
(l)
Surface
means one side of a mattress or mattress pad which is intended for sleeping upon and which can be tested.
§ 1632.2
Purpose, scope, and applicability.
(a)
Purpose.
(1) This standard prescribes requirements for testing of prototype designs of mattresses and mattress pads before the sale in commerce or the introduction in commerce of any mattress or mattress pad which is subject to the standard. The standard prescribes a test to determine the ignition resistance of a mattress or a mattress pad when exposed to a lighted cigarette.
(2) The standard sets forth a test at § 1632.6 which may be used to classify ticking materials for resistance to cigarette ignition.
(3) The standard sets forth a test at § 1632.7 which may be used to demonstrate that the substitution of tape
edge materials will not reduce the ignition resistance of a mattress prototype or a mattress pad prototype.
(b)
Scope.
(1) All mattresses, as defined in § 1632.1(a), and all mattress pads, as defined in § 1632.1(b), manufactured or imported after the effective date of this amendment are subject to the requirements of the standard as amended.
(2) All mattresses, as defined in § 1632.1(a), and all mattress pads, as defined in § 1632.1(b), manufactured or imported after June 22, 1973, and before the effective date of this amendment are subject to those requirements of the Standard for the Flammability of Mattresses (and Mattress Pads) (16 CFR part 1632) which were in effect before the effective date of this amendment.
(3) Manufacturers or importers desiring to use the ticking substitution procedure provided in § 1632.6 may classify the ticking being used on each mattress prototype before or after the effective date of this amendment using the test procedure set forth in that section.
(4) One-of-a-kind mattresses and mattress pads may be excluded from testing under this standard in accordance with rules established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. (See § 1632.31(f): exemption for mattresses and mattress pads prescribed by a physician.)
(c)
Applicability.
(1) The requirements for prototype testing prescribed by this standard are applicable to each “manufacturer” (as that term is defined in § 1632.1(i)) of mattresses or mattress pads subject to the standard which are manufactured for sale in commerce. The requirements of this standard for prototype testing are also applicable to all other persons or firms initially introducing mattresses or mattress pads into commerce, including importers; each such firm shall be deemed to be a “manufacturer” for purposes of this standard.
(2) The test at § 1632.6 for classification of ticking materials may be used by manufacturers of mattresses or mattress pads and by manufacturers of ticking materials. The test at § 1632.7 may be used by manufacturers of mattresses to demonstrate that substitution of tape edge materials will not reduce ignition resistance of a mattress prototype or a mattress pad prototype. Use of the tests in §§ 1632.6 and 1632.7 is optional.
§ 1632.3
General requirements.
(a)
Summary of test method.
The method measures the ignition resistance of a mattress or mattress pad by exposing the surface to lighted cigarettes in a draft-protected environment. The surfaces to be tested include smooth, tape edge, and quilted or tufted locations, if they exist on the mattress or mattress pad surface. A two-sheet test is also conducted on similar surface locations. In the latter test, the burning cigarettes are placed between the sheets.
(b)
Test criterion.
When testing the mattress or mattress pad surface in accordance with the testing procedure set forth in § 1632.4
Mattress test procedure,
individual cigarette test locations pass the test if the char length is not more than 2 inches (5.1 cm) in any direction from the nearest point of the cigarette. In the interest of safety, the test operator should discontinue the test and record a failure before reaching the 2 inch char length if an obvious ignition has occurred.
(c)
Pre-market testing.
Each manufacturer required to perform prototype testing by the standard shall perform the testing required by the standard with acceptable results before selling in commerce or introducing in commerce any mattress or mattress pad which is subject to the standard.
(d)
Specimen selection and qualification.
(1) Each manufacturer required to perform prototype testing by the standard shall construct or select enough units of each proposed mattress prototype or proposed mattress pad prototype to provide six surfaces for testing. A minimum of three mattresses or mattress pads are required if both sides can be tested; six mattresses or mattress pads are required if only one side can be tested. Test each of the six surfaces according to § 1632.4(d). If all the cigarette test locations on all six mattress surfaces yield passing results using the criterion specified in § 1632.3(b), accept the mattress prototype. If all six surfaces of a mattress
pad yield passing results using the criterion in § 1632.3(b), and all other applicable requirements prescribed by § 1632.5 are met, accept the mattress pad prototype. If one or more of the cigarette test locations on any of the six surfaces fail to meet the test criterion of § 1632.3(b), reject the mattress prototype or the mattress pad prototype.
(2) Prototype qualification testing may be repeated after action has been taken to improve the resistance of the mattress prototype or the mattress pad prototype to cigarette ignition by changes in design, construction methods, materials selection, or other means. When prototype qualification is repeated after rejection of a prototype, such qualification testing shall be conducted in the same manner as original qualification testing.
(3) Each mattress prototype and each mattress pad prototype must be accepted in prototype qualification before any mattress or mattress pad manufactured in accordance with such mattress prototype or mattress pad prototype is sold in commerce or introduced in commerce. Any manufacturer required to perform testing by the standard may rely on prototype tests performed before the effective date of this amended standard, provided that such tests were conducted in accordance with all requirements of §§ 1632.1(i), 1632.3(d), and 1632.4, and yield passing results when the test criterion of § 1632.3(b) is applied. If the ticking classification test at § 1632.6 is to be used when relying on prototype tests performed before the effective date of the standard, the ticking currently used on that mattress prototype must be classified before substitution of ticking using § 1632.6.
(4) Rejected prototype mattresses or prototype mattress pads shall not be retested, offered for sale, sold, or promoted for use as a mattress (as defined in § 1632.1(a)) or for use as a mattress pad (as defined in § 1632.1(b)) except after reworking to improve the resistance to ignition by cigarettes, and subsequent retesting and acceptance of the mattress prototype (as defined in § 1632.1(j)) or the mattress pad prototype (as defined in § 1632.1(k)).
§ 1632.4
Mattress test procedure.
(a)
Apparatus and test materials
—(1)
Testroom.
The testroom shall be large enough to accommodate a full-scale mattress in a horizontal position and to allow for free movement of personnel and air around the test mattress. The test area shall be draft-protected and equipped with a suitable system for exhausting smoke and/or noxious gases produced by testing. The testroom atmospheric conditions shall be greater than 18 °C (65 °F) and at less than 55 percent relative humidity.
(i) The room shall be equipped with a support system (e.g. platform, bench) upon which a mattress may be placed flat in a horizontal position at a reasonable height for making observations.
(ii) If thin flexible mattresses or mattress pads are being testing the room shall also be equipped with a glass fiberboard test surface. The glass fiberboard shall be approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick and have a thermal conductivity of 0.30±0.05 cal (g) / hr cm
2
°C/cm (0.24±0.04 Btu/hr ft
2
°F/in) at 23.9 °C (75 °F).
1
1
Glass fiberboard that meets Federal Specification HH-I-558B is acceptable. Under this specification, the board must be Form A, Class 1, and plain faced. Copies of the specifications may be obtained from the Business Service Centers of the General Services Administration Regional Offices.
(2)
Ignition source.
The ignition source shall be a Standard Reference Material cigarette (SRM 1196a), available for purchase from the National Institute of Standards and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Gaithersburg, MD 20899.
(3)
Fire extinguisher.
A pressurized water fire extinguisher, or other suitable fire extinguishing equipment, shall be immediately available.
(4)
Water bottle.
A water bottle fitted with a spray nozzle shall be used to extinguish the ignited portions of the mattress.
(5)
Scale.
A linear scale graduated in millimeters, 0.1 inch, or
1/16
inch divisions shall be used to measure char length.
(6)
Sheets or sheeting material.
White, 100 percent cotton sheets or sheeting material shall be used. It shall not be
treated with a chemical finish which imparts a characteristic such as permanent press or flame resistance. It shall have 120-210 threads per square inch and fabric weight of 3.7±0.8 oz/yd
2
(125±28 gm/m
2
). The size of the sheet or sheeting material shall be appropriate for the mattress being tested.
(7)
Other apparatus.
In addition to the above, a thermometer, a relative humidity measuring instrument, a thin rod, straight pins, a knife or scissors, and tongs are required to carry out the testing.
(b)
Test preparation
—(1)
Mattress samples.
The mattress shall be removed from any packaging prior to conditioning. The mattress surface shall be divided laterally into two sections (see fig. 1), one section for the bare mattress tests and the other for the two-sheet tests.
(2)
Sheets or sheeting material.
The sheets or sheeting material shall be laundered once before use in an automatic home washer using the hot water setting and longest normal cycle with the manufacturer's recommended quantity of a commercial detergent, and dried in an automatic home tumble dryer.
(i) The sheet shall be cut across the width into two equal parts after washing.
(ii) Sheeting material shall be cut in lengths to cover
1/2
of a mattress as described in § 1632.4(d)(3).
(3)
Cigarettes.
Unopened packages of cigarettes shall be selected for each series of tests. The cigarettes shall be removed from packaging prior to conditioning.
(c)
Conditioning.
The mattresses, laundered sheets or sheeting material, and loose cigarettes shall be conditioned in air at a temperature greater than 18 °C (65 °F) and a relative humidity less than 55 percent for at least 48 continuous hours prior to test. The mattresses, laundered sheets or sheeting material, and cigarettes shall be supported in a suitable manner to permit free movement of air around them during conditioning. The mattress meets this conditioning requirement if the mattress and/or all its component materials, except the metallic core, if present, have been exposed only to the above temperature and humidity conditions for at least 48 continuous hours prior to testing the mattress.
(d)
Testing
—(1)
General.
Mattress specimens shall be tested in a testroom with atmospheric conditions of a temperature greater than 18 °C (65 °F) and a relative humidity less than 55 percent. If the test is not performed in the conditioning room, at least one lit cigarette shall be placed on the mattress surface within 10 minutes of removal from the conditioning room. The other side of the mattress shall be tested immediately after completion of the first side.
(i) At least 18 cigarettes shall be burned on each mattress test surface, 9 in the bare mattress tests and 9 in the 2-sheet tests. If three or more mattress surface locations (smooth surface, tape edge, quilted, or tufted areas) exist in the particular mattress surface under test, three cigarettes shall be burned on each different surface location. If only two mattress surface locations exist in the particular mattress surface under test (tape edge and smooth surface), four cigarettes shall be burned on the smooth surface and five cigarettes shall be burned on the tape edge.
(ii) Light and place one cigarette at a time on the mattress surface. (If previous experience with a similar type of mattress has indicated that ignition is not likely, the number of cigarettes which may be lighted and placed on the mattress at one time is left to the test operator's judgment. The number of cigarettes must be carefully considered because a smoldering or burning mattress is extremely hazardous and difficult to extinguish.) The cigarettes must be positioned no less than 6 inches apart on the mattress surface. Each cigarette used as an ignition source shall be well lighted but not burned more than 4 mm (0.16 inch) when placed on the mattress. (Fire extinguishing equipment must be readily available at all times.)
(iii) If a cigarette extinguishes before burning its full length on any mattress surface location, pops out of position when tested on a tuft, or rolls off a test location, the test must be repeated with a freshly lit cigarette on a different portion of the same type of location on the mattress surface until either: the number of cigarettes specified
in § 1632.4(d)(1)(i) have burned their full lengths; the number of cigarettes specified in § 1632.4(d)(1)(i) have extinguished before burning their full lengths; or failure has occurred according to § 1632.3(b)
Test criterion.
(2)
Bare mattress tests
—(i)
Smooth surface.
Each burning cigarette shall be placed directly on a smooth surface location on the test surface on the half reserved for bare mattress tests. The cigarettes should burn their full lengths on a smooth surface without burning across a tuft, or stitching of a quilted area. However, if this is not possible because of mattress design, then the cigarettes shall be positioned on the mattress in a manner which will allow as much of the butt ends as possible to burn on smooth surfaces. Report results for each cigarette as pass or fail as defined in the test criterion (see § 1632.3(b)). CAUTION: Even under the most carefully observed conditions, smoldering combustion can progress to the point where it cannot be readily extinguished. It is imperative that a test be discontinued as soon as ignition has definitely occurred. Immediately wet the exposed area with a water spray (from water bottle), cut around the burning material with a knife or scissors and pull the material out of the mattress with tongs. Make sure that all charred or burned material is removed. Ventilate the room.
(ii)
Tape edge.
Each burning cigarette shall be placed in the depression between the mattress top surface and the tape edge, parallel to the tape edge of the half of the test surface reserved for bare mattress tests. If there is only a seam or no depression at the edge, support the cigarettes in place along the edge and parallel to the edge with straight pins. Three straight pins may be inserted through the edge at a 45° angle such that one pin supports the cigarette at the burned end, one at the center, and one at the butt. The heads of the pins must be below the upper surface of the cigarette (see fig. 2). Report results for each cigarette as pass or fail as defined in the test criterion (see § 1632.3(b)).
EC03OC91.097
EC03OC91.098
(iii)
Quilted location.
If quilting exists on the test surface, each burning cigarette shall be placed on quilted locations of the test surface. The cigarettes shall be positioned directly over the thread or in the depression created by the quilting process on the half of the test surface reserved for bare mattress tests. If the quilt design is such that the cigarettes cannot burn their full lengths over the thread or depression, then the cigarettes shall be positioned in a manner which will allow as much of the butt ends as possible to burn on the thread or depression. Report results for each cigarette as pass or fail as defined in the test criterion (see § 1632.3(b)).
(iv)
Tufted location.
If tufting exists on the test surface, each burning cigarette shall be placed on tufted locations of the test surface. The cigarettes shall be positioned so that they burn down into the depression caused by the tufts and so that the butt ends of the cigarettes burn out over the buttons or laces used in the tufts or the depressions made by the tufts on the half of the test surface reserved for bare mattress tests. Report results for each cigarette as pass or fail as defined in the test criterion (see § 1632.3(b)).
(3)
Two-sheet tests.
Spread a section of sheet or sheeting material smoothly over the mattress surface which has been reserved for the two-sheet test and tuck under the mattress. Care must be taken that hems or any other portion of the sheet which is more than one fabric thickness, is neither directly under nor directly over the test cigarette in the two-sheet test.
(i)
Smooth surfaces.
Each burning cigarette shall be placed directly on the sheet covered mattress in a smooth surface location as defined in the bare mattress test. Immediately cover the first sheet and the burning cigarette loosely with a second, or top sheet (see fig. 2). Do not raise or lift the top sheet during testing unless obvious ignition has occurred or until the cigarette has burned out. Whether a cigarette has extinguished may be determined by holding the hand near the surface of the top sheet over the test location. If no heat is felt or smoke observed, the cigarette has burned out. If ignition occurs, immediately remove the sheets and cigarette and follow the cautionary procedures outlined in the bare mattress test. Report results for each cigarette as pass or fail as defined in the test criterion (see § 1632.3(b)).
(ii)
Tape edge.
(A) Each burning cigarette shall be placed in the depression between the top surface and the tape edge on top of the sheet, and immediately covered with a second sheet. It is important the air space be eliminated, as much as possible, between the mattress and the bottom sheet at the test location before testing. Depress the bottom sheet into the depression using a thin rod or other suitable instrument.
(B) In most cases, the cigarettes will remain in place throughout the test. However, if the cigarettes show a marked tendency to roll off the tape edge location, they may be supported with straight pins. Three straight pins may be inserted through the bottom sheet and tape at a 45° angle such that one pin supports the cigarette at the burning end, one at the center, and one at the butt. The heads of the pins must be below the upper surface of the cigarette (see fig. 2). Report results for each cigarette as pass or fail as defined in the test criterion (see § 1632.3(b)).
(iii)
Quilted locations.
If quilting exists on the test surface, each burning cigarette shall be placed in a depression caused by quilting, directly over the thread and on the bottom sheet, and immediately covered with the top sheet. It is important that the air space be eliminated, as much as possible, between the mattress and the bottom sheet at the test location before testing. Depress the bottom sheet into the depression using a thin rod or other suitable instrument. If the quilt design is such that the cigarettes cannot burn their full lengths over the thread or depression, then the cigarettes shall be positioned in a manner which will allow as much of the butt ends as possible to burn on the thread or depression. Report results for each cigarette as pass or fail as defined in the test criterion (see § 1632.3(b)).
(iv)
Tufted locations.
If tufting exists on the test surface, each burning cigarette shall be placed in the depression caused by tufting, directly over the tuft and on the bottom sheet, and immediately covered with the top sheet. It is important that the air space be eliminated, as much as possible, between the mattress and the bottom sheet at the test location before testing. Depress the bottom sheet into the depression using a thin rod or other suitable instrument. The cigarettes shall be positioned so that they burn down into the depression caused by the tuft and so that the butt ends of the cigarettes burn out over the buttons or laces, if used in the tufts. Report results for each cigarette as pass or fail as defined in the test criterion (see § 1632.3(b)).
(e)
Records.
Records of all prototype test results, and the disposition of rejected prototypes shall be maintained by the person or firm required to perform testing by the standard in accordance with § 1632.31(c).
[49 FR 39796, Oct. 10, 1984, as amended at 76 FR 59023, Sept. 23, 2011; 86 FR 32764, June 23, 2021]
§ 1632.5
Mattress pad test procedure.
(a)
Testing.
All mattress pads shall be tested, in the condition in which they are intended to be sold, according to § 1632.4 Mattress test procedure, using the glass fiberboard substrate.
(b)
Flame resistant mattress pads.
The following additional requirements shall be applicable to mattress pads which contain a chemical fire retardant.
(1) These mattress pads shall be tested in accordance with § 1632.4 Mattress test procedure after they have been washed and dried 10 times as described in § 1632.5(b)(2).
(i) Such laundering is not required of mattress pads which are intended for one time use and/or are not intended to be laundered, as determined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
(ii) Mattress pads which are not susceptible to being laundered and are labeled “dryclean only” shall be drycleaned by a procedure which has previously been found acceptable by the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
(2)
Laundering procedure.
(i) Washing shall be performed in accordance with sections 8.2.2 and 8.2.3 of AATCC Test Method 124-1996, using wash temperature V (60° ±3 °C, 140° ±5 °F) specified in Table II of that method, and the water level, agitator speed, washing time, spin speed and final spin cycle specified for “Normal/Cotton Sturdy” in Table III.
(ii) Drying shall be performed in accordance with section 8.3.1(A) of AATCC Test Method 124-1996 “Appearance of Fabrics after Repeated Home Laundering,” Tumble Dry, using the exhaust temperature (66° ±5 °C, 150° ±10 °F) and cool down time of 10 minutes specified in the “Durable Press” conditions of Table IV.
(iii) Maximum washer load shall be 3.64 Kg (8 pounds) and may consist of any combination of test samples and dummy pieces.
(iv) AATCC Test Method 124-1996 “Appearance of Fabrics after Repeated Home Laundering,” is found in Technical Manual of the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, vol. 73, 1997, which is incorporated by reference. Copies of this document are available from the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, P.O. Box 12215, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709. This document is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.
(v) A different number of wash and dry cycles using another procedure may be specified and used, if that procedure has previously been found to be equivalent by the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
(3)
Labeling
—(i)
Treatment label.
If a mattress pad contains a chemical fire retardant, it shall be labeled with the letter “T” pursuant to rules and regulations established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
(ii)
Care label.
All mattress pads which contain a chemical fire retardant treatment shall be labeled with precautionary instructions to protect the pads from agents or treatments which are known to cause deterioration of their flame resistance. Such labels shall be permanent and otherwise in accordance with rules and regulations established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in § 1632.31(b).
(iii)
Exception.
One time use products as defined in § 1632.5(b)(1)(i) are not subject to these labeling requirements.
[49 FR 39796, Oct. 10, 1984, as amended at 65 FR 12938, Mar. 10, 2000]
§ 1632.6
Ticking substitution procedure.
(a) This procedure may be used to verify acceptable equivalency if a mattress or mattress pad manufacturer wishes to change the ticking used on a particular mattress or mattress pad prototype without conducting a prototype test as specified in § 1632.4 or § 1632.5. The procedure includes a ticking classification test that may be used by a ticking, mattress or mattress pad manufacturer or by a distributor of ticking.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section the following definitions apply in addition to those in § 1632.1.
(1)
Mattress ticking prototype.
Means a ticking of a specific construction, color, or combination of colors or color pattern, weave pattern design, finish application, fiber content, and weight per unit area. With respect to film-coated ticking, a mattress ticking prototype means in addition to the factors listed above, a given method of application, chemical formula, and thickness of application of film coating. With respect to a quilted ticking, a mattress ticking prototype means the combination of a specific ticking as described above; a specific filling, thickness, density, and chemical composition; a specific thread; a specific method of quilting; and a specific backing fabric construction, weave, finish, fiber content, and weight.
(2)
Mattress pad ticking prototype
(i) Means a ticking of a specific construction, color, or combination of colors or color pattern, weave pattern design, finish application, fiber content, and weight per unit area. With respect to film-coated ticking, a mattress pad ticking prototype means in addition to the factors listed above, a given method of application, chemical formula, and thickness of application of film coating.
(ii) Quilted ticking is excluded from this definition. Therefore, the following procedures may not be used to substitute quilted ticking used on or as a mattress pad.
(c)
Scope and application.
(1) This procedure provides an independent evaluation of the cigarette ignition characteristics of ticking and for the classification of ticking into one of three performance classes. Class A represents tickings evaluated as acting as barriers against cigarette ignition; Class B represents tickings evaluated as having no effect on cigarette ignition; and Class
C represents tickings evaluated as having the potential, in some manner, to act as a contributor to cigarette ignition.
(2) Substitution of any ticking which has been evaluated as Class A using the procedure in this § 1632.6 for any other ticking material shall not be a “difference in materials” as that phrase is used in §§ 1632.1 (j) and (k). Consequently, any ticking material evaluated as Class A under this test procedure may be used on any qualified mattress prototype or on any qualified mattress pad prototype without conducting new prototype tests.
(3) Substitution of any ticking which has been evaluated as Class B using the procedure in this § 1632.6 for the ticking material used on any mattress prototype or on any mattress pad prototype which was qualified in prototype testing with a testing material evaluated as Class B or a Class C shall not be a “difference in materials” as that phrase is used in §§ 1632.1 (j) and (k). Consequently, any ticking material evaluated as Class B under this test procedure may be used on any mattress or mattress pad which wa qualified in prototype testing with a Class B or Class C ticking material without conducting new prototype tests. However, if Class B ticking material is to be used on any mattress or mattress pad which was qualified in prototype testing with a Class A ticking material, the mattress prototype or mattress pad prototype must be requalified, using a Class B ticking.
(4) A ticking material which has been evaluated as Class C using the procedure in this § 1632.6 may be used only on a mattress or mattress pad which was qualified in prototype testing with that particular Class C ticking material. Consequently, a ticking material evaluated as Class C under this test procedure may not be used on any mattress or mattress pad which was qualified in prototype testing using another Class C ticking material, or a Class A or Class B ticking material, without conducting new prototype tests.
(d)
General requirements.
(1) This procedure is a ticking prototype performance classification test. Ticking not classified according to this procedure may be used on mattresses or mattress pads if the mattress prototype or mattress pad prototype has been qualified utilizing the unclassified ticking in question.
(2)
Test criterion.
(i) Cigarette—An individual cigarette test location passes the test if the char length is not more than 1 inch (2.54 cm) in any direction from the nearest point of the cigarette, and the cotton felt is not ignited.
CAUTION: In the interest of safety, the test operator should discontinue the test and record a failure before reaching the 1 inch (2.54 cm) char length if, in his opinion, an obvious ignition has occurred.
(ii) Test Specimen—An individual test specimen passes the test if all three cigarette test locations meet the cigarette test criterion of this paragraph.
(3)
Specimen selection.
Three specimens shall be used for each ticking prototype classification test, with each specimen measuring no less than 20 inches by 20 inches (50.8 cm × 50.8 cm) square. The three specimens shall be selected from any fabric piece taken from a ticking prototype. The specimens shall be representative of the ticking prototype.
(4)
Ticking classification.
A ticking prototype is classified as Class A, Class B, or Class C, in accordance with the following schedules.
(i) Class A—A ticking prototype is classified as Class A when three specimens, tested in accordance with § 1632.6(e), meet the test criterion in § 1632.6(d)(2) when the ticking is tested directly over the cotton felt on the test box.
(ii) Class B—A ticking prototype is classified as Class B when three specimens, tested according to § 1632.6(e), meet the test criterion in § 1632.6(d)(2) when the ticking is tested on a
1/4
inch ±
1/32
inch (6.3 mm ±.8 mm) thick urethane foam pad covering the cotton felt on the test box.
(iii) Class C—A ticking prototype is classified as Class C when any specimen tested according to § 1632.6(e), fails to meet the test criterion in § 1632.6(d)(2) when the ticking is tested on a
1/4
inch ±
1/32
inch (6.3 mm ±.8 mm) thick urethane foam pad covering the cotton felt on the test box.
(e)
Test procedure
—(1)
Apparatus.
For the purpose of this section the following apparatus and materials are required in addition to that which is listed in § 1632.4 (a) and (b).
(i)
Sheet and sheeting material.
Test covers made from sheets or sheeting material shall not be less than 12 inches by 12 inches (30.48 cm by 30.48 cm) square.
(ii)
Template.
Designed to allow for a one inch marking around the placement of the cigarette (see figure 3). Use of this template is optional.
(iii)
Stapler or masking tape
or other means of attachment to secure fabric to test box.
(iv)
Mounting box.
A 6 inch deep, 12 inch square plywood box. The box contains two
1/2
inch in diameter ventilation holes. (See figure 4.)
(v)
Cotton felt.
(A) The cotton felt shall be a thoroughly-garnetted mixture of all new material consisting of not less than 67% linters and of not more than 33% clean picker blend or equivalent binder and not more than 5% non-cellulosic total content. The felt shall not be bleached, moistened or chemically treated in any way.
(B) The felt may be re-used repeatedly after completion of each test by removing all of the smoldering, charred, heat-discolored fibers, or fibers exposed to water as a result of extinguishing the cotton ignited by previous test.
(vi)
Urethane foam.
The urethane foam shall have a density of 1.2 to 1.5 pounds per cubic foot, an indention load deflection of 22 to 35 pounds, with each test specimen measuring no less than 12 inches by 12 inches (30.48 cm by 30.48 cm) square, having a thickness of
1/4
inch ±
1/32
inch (6.3 mm ±.8 mm). The foam shall not be treated with a flame retardant chemical.
(2)
Conditioning.
The test specimens, cigarettes, laundered sheets or sheeting material, foam and felt shall be conditioned as described in § 1632.4(c).
(3)
Specimen preparation.
(i) Place 907.2±4 grams (two pounds) of cotton felt in the test box, allowing the felt to protrude above the opening of the box to a height of up to 3 inches (7.62 cm) at the crown.
(ii) For the first part of this test, place a 12 inches by 12 inches (30.48 cm by 30.48 cm) square urethane foam pad on top of the cotton felt. Stretch the ticking specimen over the foam pad and fasten it to the sides of the test box using a stapler or tape. Be careful to avoid wrinkles in the fabric and have sufficient tautness to assure firm contact between the fabric and the filling materials in the test box.
(4)
Testing.
(i) Ticking specimens shall be tested in a testroom with atmospheric conditions of a temperature greater than 18 °C (65 °F) and a relative humidity less than 55%.
(ii) Three cigarettes shall be burned on each ticking specimen, with no more than one cigarette burning at any time. At least one cigarette shall be placed on the most prominent part of the color and weave pattern design in the ticking. If the ticking is quilted, one cigarette shall be placed over the thread or in the depression created by the quilting process. Each cigarette must be positioned no less than two inches (5.08 cm) from any other cigarette or the edge of the box.
(iii) Light and place one cigarette on the test specimen. Immediately cover the burning cigarette with a sheet test cover. The cigarette shall be well lighted but not burned more than 4 mm (0.16 inch) when placed on the test specimen. The cigarette may be supported by three straight pins such that one pin supports the cigarette at the burning end, one at the center and one at the butt. The heads of the pins must be below the upper surface of the cigarette. Upon completion of the three cigarette burns and removal of the fabric and foam specimens, remove all of the char or heat discoloration on the cotton felt as stated in § 1632.6(e)(v)(B). Fresh new felt shall be added to replace the discarded fibers in the amount necessary to maintain the full 907.2±4 grams (two pounds) of felt for each test.
(iv) If the cigarette extinguishes before burning its full length, the test must be repeated with a freshly lit cigarette on a different portion of the ticking specimen until either three cigarettes have burned their full lengths or three cigarettes have extinguished. Report result for each cigarette as pass or fail as defined in Test
Criterion § 1632.6(d)(2). An obvious ignition is recorded as a failure.
(v) If ignition occurs with any of the three cigarette burns on the ticking specimen, terminate testing of that specimen and classify according to § 1632.6(d)(4).
(vi) If all cigarette test locations meet the Test Criterion in § 1632.6(d)(2), repeat procedure outlined in § 1632.6(e)(4)(iii) for the second part of the test with new ticking specimens that will be retested directly over the cotton felt, without the urethane foam pad. Remove the urethane foam pad and charred or heat discolored area from the cotton felt as specified in § 1632.6(e)(v)(B) prior to testing. Record the test results as pass or fail as defined in
Test Criterion
§ 1632.6(d)(2) and classify according to § 1632.6(d)(4).
(5)
Records.
Records of any ticking classification test results relied upon by the mattress or mattress pad manufacturer or importer shall be maintained in accordance with rules and regulations established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in § 1632.31(c). As provided by § 1632.31(c)(6), manufacturers or importers of mattresses or mattress pads may rely on a certification of compliance with this section of the standard provided by the ticking manufacturer or distributor; however, if a mattress or mattress pad fails to comply with the standard, the mattress or mattress pad manufacturer or importer must assume full responsibility under the standard. The Commission has no authority under this standard to compel ticking manufacturers or distributors to comply with this section or to establish, maintain and provide upon request, the records specified in § 1632.31(c).
EC03OC91.099
EC03OC91.100
§ 1632.7
Tape edge substitution procedure.
(a) Sections 1632.1 (j) and (k) provide in part that “a change in existing material shall be deemed a difference in materials for purposes of prototype definition unless it is shown to the satisfaction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission that such change will not reduce the ignition resistance” of the mattress prototype or the mattress pad prototype.
(b) The Commission will regard a showing “to the satisfaction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission” to have been made with respect to materials substitution of items such as flange materials and tapes at the tape edge under the following circumstances:
(1) The mattress or mattress pad prototype has been qualified previously under the provisions of § 1632.3; and
(2) A substitution of materials involving only tape edge construction is contemplated; and
(3) A prototype mattress or mattress pad incorporating the substitute materials has been tested in accordance with applicable procedures in § 1632.4 by placing 36 cigarettes (18 persurface—9 bare and 9 two-sheet) at tape edge locations with no test failure as determined by applying the test criterion of § 1632.3(b); and
(4) Records are maintained setting forth the details of the materials substitution and showing the results of the testing referred to in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The records are to be maintained in accordance with regulations established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission (see § 1632.31).
§ 1632.8
Glossary of terms.
(a)
Absorbent pads.
Pad used on top of mattress. Designed to absorb urine thereby reducing skin irritation, can be one time use.
(b)
Basket pad.
Cushion for use in an infant basket.
(c)
Bunk beds.
A tier of beds, usually two or three, in a high frame complete with mattresses (see fig. 5).
(d)
Car bed.
Portable bed used to carry a baby in an automobile.
(e)
Carriage pad.
Cushion to go into a baby carriage.
(f)
Chaise lounge.
An upholstered couch chair or a couch with a chair back. It has a permanent back rest, no arms, and sleeps one (see fig. 5).
(g)
Convertible sofa.
An upholstered sofa that converts into an adult sized bed. Mattress unfolds out and up from under the seat cushioning (see fig. 5).
(h)
Convoluted foam pad.
A bed pad made of foam in an egg-crate configuration not encased in ticking.
(i)
Corner groups.
Two twin size bedding sets on frames, usually slipcovered, and abutted to a corner table. They also usually have loose bolsters slipcovered (see fig. 5).
(j)
Crib bumper.
Padded cushion which goes around three or four sides inside a crib to protect the baby. Can also be used in a playpen.
(k)
Daybed.
Daybed has foundation, usually supported by coil or flat springs, mounted between arms on which mattress is placed. It has permanent arms, no backrest, and sleeps one (see fig. 5).
(l)
Decubitus pad.
Designed to prevent or assist in the healing of decubitus ulcers (bed sores). Flat decubitus pads are covered by the standard. Convoluted decubitus pads made entirely from foam are not covered by the standard.
(m)
Dressing table pad.
Pad to cushion a baby on top of a dressing table.
(n)
Drop-arm loveseat.
When side arms are in vertical position, this piece is a loveseat. The adjustable arms can be lowered to one of four positions for a chaise lounge effect or a single sleeper. The vertical back support always remains upright and stationary (see fig. 5).
(o)
Futon.
A flexible mattress generally used on the floor that can be folded or rolled up for storage. It usually consists of resilient material covered by ticking.
(p)
High riser.
This is a frame of sofa seating height with two equal size mattresses without a backrest. The frame slides out with the lower bed and rises to form a double or two single beds (see fig. 5).
(q)
Infant carrier and lounge pad.
Pad to cushion a baby in an infant carrier.
(r)
Mattress foundation.
Consists of any surface such as foam, box springs or other, upon which a mattress is
placed to lend it support for use in sleeping upon.
(s)
Pillow.
Cloth bag filled with resilient material such as feathers, down, sponge rubber, urethane, or fiber used as the support for the head of a person.
(t)
Playpen pad.
Cushion used on the bottom of a playpen.
(u)
Portable crib.
Smaller size than a conventional crib. Can usually be converted into a playpen.
(v)
Press-back lounges.
Longer and wider than conventional sofa beds. When the lounge seat is pressed lightly, it levels off to form, with the seat, a flat sleeping surface. The seat slopes, in the sitting position, for added comfort (see fig. 5).
(w)
Push-back sofa.
When pressure is exerted on the back of the sofa, it becomes a bed. When the back is lifted, it becomes a sofa again. Styled in tight or loose cushions (see fig. 5).
(x)
Roll-away-bed.
Portable bed which has frame which folds in half with the mattress for compact storage.
(y)
Sleep lounge.
Upholstered seating section is mounted on a sturdy frame. May have bolster pillows along the wall as backrests or may have attached headrests (see fig. 5).
(z)
Stroller pad.
Cushion used in a baby stroller.
(aa)
Sofa bed.
These are pieces in which the back of the sofa swings down flat with the seat to form the sleeping surface. All upholstered. Some sofa beds have bedding boxes for storage of bedding. There are two types: the one-piece, where the back and seat are upholstered as a unit, supplying an unbroken sleeping surface; and the two-piece, where back and seat are upholstered separately (see fig. 5).
(bb)
Sofa lounge
—(includes glideouts). Upholstered seating section is mounted on springs and in a special frame that permit it to be pulled out for sleeping. Has upholstered backrest bedding box that is hinged. Glideouts are single sleepers with sloping seats and backrests. Seat pulls out from beneath back and evens up to supply level sleeping surface (see fig. 5).
(cc)
Studio couch.
Consists of upholstered seating section on upholstered foundation. Many types convert to twin beds (see fig. 5).
(dd)
Studio divan.
Twin size upholstered seating section with foundation is mounted on metal bed frame. Has no arms or backrest, and sleeps one (see fig. 5).
(ee)
Trundle bed.
A low bed which is rolled under a larger bed. In some lines, the lower bed springs up to form a double or two single beds as in a high riser (see fig. 5).
(ff)
Twin studio divan.
Frames which glide out (but not up) and use seat cushions, in addition to upholstered foundation to sleep two. Has neither arms nor back rest (see fig. 5).
EC03OC91.101
Effective date:
The amended standard shall become effective on April 10, 1985. As required by section 4(b) of the Flammable Fabrics Act (15 U.S.C. 1193(b)), mattresses and mattress pads which are in inventory or with the trade on the effective date of the amended standard are exempt from its requirements, but must comply with all applicable requirements of the original standard.

# Subpart B—Rules and Regulations
§ 1632.31
Mattresses/mattress pads—labeling, recordkeeping, guaranties and “one of a kind” exemption.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Standard for the Flammability of Mattresses
or
Standard
means the Standard for the Flammability of Mattresses and Mattress Pads (FF 4-72, amended), (16 CFR part 1632, subpart A).
(2) The definition of terms set forth in the § 1632.1 of the Standard shall also apply to this section.
(b)
Labeling.
(1) All mattress pads which contain a chemical fire retardant shall be labeled with precautionary instructions to protect the pads from agents or treatments which are known to cause deterioration of their flame resistance. Such labels shall be permanent, prominent, conspicuous, and legible.
(2) If a mattress pad contains a chemical fire retardant, it shall be prominently, conspicuously, and legibly labeled with the letter “T”.
(3) Each mattress or mattress pad subject to the Standard shall bear a permanent, accessible, and legible label containing the month and year of manufacture and the location of the manufacturer. (See § 1632.1(i) of the Amended Standard.)
(4) The information required on labels by this section shall be set forth separately from any other information appearing on such label. Other information, representations, or disclosures, appearing on labels required by this section or elsewhere on the item, shall not interfere with, minimize, detract from, or conflict with the required information.
(5) No person, other than the ultimate consumer, shall remove or mutilate, or cause or participate in the removal or mutilation of, any label required by this section to be affixed to any item.
(6) Products intended for one time use (see § 1632.5(b)(1)(i)) are not subject to the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this § 1632.31(b).
(c)
Records
—
manufacturers, importers, or persons initially introducing items into commerce.
Every manufacturer, importer, or other person initially introducing into commerce mattresses or mattress pads subject to the standard, irrespective of whether guarantees are issued relative thereto, shall maintain the records hereinafter specified.
(1) Manufacturing specifications and description of each mattress or mattress pad prototype with an assigned prototype identification number.
(2) Test results and details of each prototype test performed in accordance with § 1632.4 or § 1632.5, including prototype identification number, ticking classification if known, test room condition, cigarette locations, number of relights for each location, whether each cigarette location passed or failed, name and signature of person conducting the test and date of test. These records shall include a certification by the person overseeing the testing as to the test results and that the test was carried out in accordance with the Standard.
(3) Photograph (color or black and white) of the bare surface of each mattress or mattress pad tested, in accordance with § 1632.4 or § 1632.5, with the prototype identification number of the mattress or mattress pad and a clear designation as to which part of the mattress or mattress pad was sheeted and which part was tested bare.
(4) Records to support any determination that a particular material, other than the ticking or tape edge material used in a mattress or mattress pad prototype, did not influence the ignition resistance of the prototype and could be substituted by another material. Such record should include photographs or physical specimens.
(5) Manufacturing specifications and description of any new ticking or tape edge material substituted in accordance with § 1632.6 or § 1632.7, with the identification number of the prototype involved.
(6) The test results and details of any ticking classification test conducted in accordance with § 1632.6, including the ticking classification (A, B, or C), the test room condition, the number of relights, whether each cigarette location passed or failed, the name and signature of the person conducting the test and the date of the test,
or
a certification from the ticking supplier. The certification should state the ticking classification and that the ticking was tested in accordance with § 1632.6.
(7) The test results and details of any test of tape edge materials conducted in accordance with § 1632.7, including prototype identification number, test room condition, number of relights, whether each cigarette passed or failed, name and signature of person conducting the test and date of test. The record shall include a certification by the person overseeing the testing as to
the test results and that the test was carried out in accordance with § 1632.7.
(8) Photograph (color or black and white) of the bare surface of each mattress or mattress pad tested in accordance with § 1632.7, with the prototype identification number of the mattress or mattress pad and a clear designation as to which part of the mattress or mattress pad was sheeted and which part was tested bare.
(9) Details of any approved alternate laundering procedure used in laundering mattress pads required by the Standard to be laundered during testing.
(10) Identification, composition, and details of the application of any flame retardant treatments employed relative to mattress pads or mattress pad components.
(11) Disposition of all failing or rejected prototype mattress or mattress pads. Such records must demonstrate that the items were retested and reworked in accordance with the Standard prior to sale or distribution and that such retested or reworked mattresses or mattress pads comply with the Standard, or must otherwise show the disposition of such items.
(12) The records required by this paragraph shall be maintained for as long as the prototype is in production, the ticking is being used on the mattresses or mattress pad prototype, and/or the tape edge material is being used on the mattress or mattress pad prototype, and shall be retained for 3 years thereafter.
(d)
Tests for guaranty purposes.
Reasonable and representative tests for the purpose of issuing a guaranty under section 8 of the Act for mattress or mattress pads subject to the Standard shall be those prototype and substitution tests performed, pursuant to the requirements of the Standard.
(e)
Compliance with this section.
No person subject to the Flammable Fabrics Act shall manufacture for sale, import, distribute, or otherwise market or handle any mattress or mattress pad which is not in compliance with § 1632.31.
(f)
“One of a kind” exemption for physician prescribed mattresses and mattress pads.
(1) A mattress or mattress pad manufactured in accordance with a physician's written prescription or manufactured in accordance with other comparable written medical therapeutic specification, to be used in connection with the treatment or management of a named individual's physical illiness or injury, shall be considered a “one of a kind mattress” and shall be exempt from testing under the Standard pursuant to § 1632.2(b)(4) thereof: Provided, that the mattress bears a permanent, conspicuous and legible label which states:
WARNING: This mattress or mattress pad may be subject to ignition and hazardous smoldering from cigarettes. It was manufactured in accordance with a physician's prescription and has not been tested under the Federal Standard for the Flammability of Mattresses (FF 4-72).
Such labeling must be attached to the mattress or mattress pad so as to remain on or affixed thereto for the useful life of the mattress or mattress pad. The label must be at least 40 square inches (250 sq. cm) with no linear dimension less than 5 inches (12.5 cm). The letters in the word “WARNING” shall be no less than 0.5 inch (1.27 cm) in height and all letters on the label shall be in a color which contrasts with the background of the label. The warning statement which appears on the label must also be conspicuously displayed on the invoice or other sales papers that accompany the mattress in commerce from the manufacturer to the final point of sale to a consumer.
(2) The manfacturer of a mattress or mattress pad exempted from testing under this paragraph shall, in lieu of the records required to be kept by paragraph (c) of this section, retain a copy of the written prescription or other comparable written medical therapeutic specification for such mattress or mattress pad during a period of three years, measured from the date of manufacture.
(3) For purposes of this regulation the term
physician
shall mean a physician, chiropractor or osteopath licensed or otherwise permitted to practice by any State of the United States.

# Subpart C—Interpretations and Policies
§§ 1632.61-1632.62
[Reserved]
§ 1632.63
Policy clarification on renovation of mattress.
(a) Section 3 of the Flammable Fabrics Act (15 U.S.C. 1192) prohibits, among other things, the “manufacture for sale” of any product which fails to conform to an applicable standard issued under the act. The standard for the Flammability of Mattresses, as amended (FF 4-72) (subpart A of this part), issued pursuant to the act, provides that, with certain exceptions, mattress must be tested according to a prescribed method. The standard does not exempt renovation; nor does it specifically refer to renovation.
(b) The purpose of this document is to inform the public that mattresses renovated for sale are considered by the Commission to be mattresses manufactured for sale and, therefore, subject to the requirements of the Mattress Standard. The Commission believes that this policy clarification will better protect the public against the unreasonable risk of fires leading to death, personal injury or significant property damage, and assure that purchasers of renovated mattresses receive the same protection under the Flammable Fabrics Act as purchasers of new mattresses.
(c) For purposes of this document, mattress renovation includes a wide range of operations. Replacing the ticking or batting, stripping a mattress to its springs, rebuilding a mattress, or replacing components with new or recycled materials, are all part of the process of renovation. Any one, or any combination of one or more, of these steps in mattress renovation is considered to be mattress manufacture.
(d) If the person who renovates the mattress intends to retain the renovated mattress for his or her own use, or if a customer or a renovator merely hires the services of the renovator and intends to take back the renovated mattress for his or her own use, “manufacture for sale” has not occurred and such a renovated mattress is not subject to the mattress standard.
(e) However, if a renovated mattress is sold or intended for sale, either by the renovator or the owner of the mattress who hires the services of the renovator, such a transaction is considered to be “manufacture for sale”.
(f) Accordingly, mattress renovation is considered by the Commission to be “manufacture for sale” and, therefore, subject to the Mattress Standard, when renovated mattresses are sold or intended for sale by a renovator or the customer of the renovator.
(g) A renovator who believes that certain mattresses are entitled to one-of-a-kind exemption, may present relevant facts to the Commission and petition for an exemption. Renovators are expected to comply with all the testing requirements of the Mattress Standard until an exemption is approved.
Pt. 1633

# PART 1633—STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY (OPEN FLAME) OF MATTRESS SETS

# Subpart A—The Standard
Sec.
1633.1
Purpose, scope and applicability.
1633.2
Definitions.
1633.3
General requirements.
1633.4
Prototype testing requirements.
1633.5
Prototype pooling and confirmation testing requirements.
1633.6
Quality assurance requirements.
1633.7
Mattress test procedure.
1633.8
Findings.
1633.9
Glossary of terms.

# Subpart B—Rules and Regulations
1633.10
Definitions.
1633.11
Records.
1633.12
Labeling.
1633.13
Tests for guaranty purposes, compliance with this section, and “one of a kind” exemption.
Figure 1 to Part 1633—Test Assembly, Shown in Furniture Calorimeter (Configuration A)
Figure 2 to Part 1633—Test Arrangement in 3.05m × 3.66m (10 ft × 12 ft) Room (Configuration B)
Figure 3 to Part 1633—Details of Horizontal Burner Head
Figure 4 to Part 1633—Details of Vertical Burner Head
Figure 5 to Part 1633—Details of Burner Stand-off
Figure 6 to Part 1633—Burner Assembly Showing Arms and Pivots (Shoulder
Screws), in Relation to, Portable Frame Allowing Burner Height Adjustment
Figure 7 to Part 1633—Elements of Propane Flow Control for Each Burner
Figure 8 to Part 1633—Jig for Setting Mattresses and Foundation Sides in Same Plane
Figure 9 to Part 1633—Burner Placements on Mattress/Foundation
Figure 10 to Part 1633—Jig for Setting Burners at Proper Distances From Mattress/Foundation
Figure 11 to Part 1633—Diagrams for Glossary of Terms
Figure 12 to Part 1633—Labels for Domestic Mattress with Foundation
Figure 13 to Part 1633—Labels for Imported Mattress with Foundation
Figures 14-15 to Part 1633—Label for Domestic Mattress Alone and with Foundation and Label for Imported Mattress Alone and With Foundation
Figures 16-17 to Part 1633—Label for Domestic Mattress Only and Label for Imported Mattress Only

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1193, 1194

# Source:
71 FR 13498, Mar. 15, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—The Standard
§ 1633.1
Purpose, scope and applicability.
(a)
Purpose.
This part 1633 establishes flammability requirements that all mattress sets must meet before sale or introduction into commerce. The purpose of the standard is to reduce deaths and injuries associated with mattress fires by limiting the size of the fire generated by a mattress set during a thirty minute test.
(b)
Scope.
(1) All mattress sets, as defined in § 1633.2(c), manufactured, imported, or renovated on or after the effective date of this standard are subject to the requirements of the standard.
(2) One-of-a-kind mattress sets may be exempted from testing under this standard in accordance with § 1633.13(c).
(c)
Applicability.
The requirements of this part 1633 shall apply to each “manufacturer” (as that term is defined in § 1633.2(k)) of mattress sets which are manufactured for sale in commerce.
§ 1633.2
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions given in section 2 of the Flammable Fabrics Act as amended (15 U.S.C. 1191), the following definitions apply for purposes of this part 1633.
(a)
Mattress
means a resilient material or combination of materials enclosed by a ticking (used alone or in combination with other products) intended or promoted for sleeping upon. This includes mattresses that have undergone renovation as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.
(1) This term includes, but is not limited to, adult mattresses, youth mattresses, crib mattresses (including portable crib mattresses), bunk bed mattresses, futons, flip chairs without a permanent back or arms, sleeper chairs, and water beds or air mattresses if they contain upholstery material between the ticking and the mattress core. Mattresses used in or as part of upholstered furniture are also included; examples are convertible sofa bed mattresses, corner group mattresses, day bed mattresses, roll-away bed mattresses, high risers, and trundle bed mattresses. See § 1633.9 Glossary of terms, for definitions of these items.
(2) This term excludes mattress pads, mattress toppers (items with resilient filling, with or without ticking, intended to be used with or on top of a mattress), sleeping bags, pillows, liquid and gaseous filled tickings, such as water beds and air mattresses that contain no upholstery material between the ticking and the mattress core, upholstered furniture which does not contain a mattress, and juvenile product pads such as car bed pads, carriage pads, basket pads, infant carrier and lounge pads, dressing table pads, stroller pads, crib bumpers, and playpen pads. See § 1633.9 Glossary of terms, for definitions of these items.
(b)
Foundation
means a ticking covered structure used to support a mattress or sleep surface. The structure may include constructed frames, foam, box springs, or other materials, used alone or in combination.
(c)
Mattress set
means either a mattress and foundation labeled by the manufacturer for sale as a set, or a mattress labeled by the manufacturer for sale without any foundation.
(d)
Renovation
means altering an existing mattress set for the purpose of resale.
(1) This term includes any one, or any combination of the following: replacing the ticking or batting, stripping a mattress to its springs, rebuilding a mattress, or replacing components with new or recycled materials.
(2) This term excludes alterations if the person who renovates the mattress intends to retain the renovated mattress for his or her own use, or if a customer or a renovator merely hires the services of the renovator and intends to take back the renovated mattress for his or her own use.
(e)
Ticking
means the outermost layer of fabric or related material of a mattress or foundation. It does not include any other layers of fabric or related materials quilted together with, or otherwise attached to, the outermost layer of fabric or related material.
(f)
Upholstery material
means all material, either loose or attached, between the mattress ticking and the core of a mattress.
(g)
Edge
means the seamed, un-seamed or taped border edge of a mattress or foundation that joins the top and/or bottom with the side panels.
(h)
Tape edge
means an edge made by using binding tape to encase and finish raw edges.
(i)
Binding tape
means a fabric strip used in the construction of some edges.
(j)
Seam thread
means the thread used to form stitches in construction features, seams, and tape edges.
(k)
Manufacturer
means an individual plant or factory at which mattress sets are manufactured or assembled. For purposes of this part 1633, importers and renovators are considered manufacturers.
(l)
Prototype
means a specific design of mattress set that serves as a model for production units intended to be introduced into commerce and is the same as the production units with respect to materials, components, design and methods of assembly. A mattress intended for sale with a foundation(s) shall be considered a separate and distinct prototype from a mattress intended for sale without a foundation.
(m)
Prototype developer
means a third party that develops a prototype for use by a manufacturer. Such prototypes may be qualified by either the prototype developer or by the manufacturer.
(n)
Qualified prototype
means a prototype that has been tested in accordance with § 1633.4(a) and meets the criteria stated in § 1633.3(b).
(o)
Confirmed prototype
means a prototype that is part of a pooling arrangement and is the same as a qualified prototype with respect to materials, components, design and methods of assembly and has been tested in accordance with § 1633.5(a)(3) and meets the criteria stated in § 1633.3(b).
(p)
Subordinate prototype
means a mattress set that is based on a qualified or confirmed prototype and is the same as the qualified or confirmed prototype, except as permitted by § 1633.4(b). A subordinate prototype is considered to be represented by a qualified or confirmed prototype and need not be tested in accordance with § 1633.4(a) or § 1633.5(a)(3).
(q)
Prototype pooling
means a cooperative arrangement—whereby one or more manufacturers build mattress sets based on a qualified prototype produced by another manufacturer or prototype developer. A manufacturer who relies on another manufacturer's or prototype developer's qualified prototype must perform a confirmation test on the mattress set it manufactures.
(r)
Confirmation test
means a pre-market test conducted by a manufacturer who is relying on a qualified prototype produced by another manufacturer or prototype developer. A confirmation test must be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1633.7 and meet the criteria in § 1633.3(b).
(s)
Production lot
means any quantity of finished mattress sets that are produced in production intervals defined by the manufacturer, and are intended to replicate a specific qualified, confirmed or subordinate prototype that complies with this part 1633.
(t)
Specimen
means a mattress set tested under this regulation.
(u)
Twin size
means any mattress with the dimensions 38 inches (in) (965 millimeters) × 74.5 in. (1892 mm); all dimensions may vary by ±
1/2
in. (±13 mm).
(v)
Core
means the main support system that may be present in a mattress, such as springs, foam, water bladder, air bladder, or resilient filling.
§ 1633.3
General requirements.
(a)
Summary of test method.
The test method set forth in § 1633.7 measures the flammability (fire test response characteristics) of a mattress specimen by exposing the specimen to a specified flaming ignition source and allowing it to burn freely under well-ventilated, controlled environmental conditions. The flaming ignition source shall be a pair of propane burners. These burners impose differing fluxes for differing times on the top and sides of the specimen. During and after this exposure, measurements shall be made of the time-dependent heat release rate from the specimen, quantifying the energy generated by the fire. The rate of heat release must be measured by means of oxygen consumption calorimetry.
(b)
Test criteria.
(1) When testing the mattress set in accordance with the test procedure set forth in § 1633.7, the specimen shall comply with both of the following criteria:
(i) The peak rate of heat release shall not exceed 200 kilowatts (“kW”) at any time within the 30 minute test; and
(ii) The total heat release shall not exceed 15 megajoules (“MJ”) for the first 10 minutes of the test.
(2) In the interest of safety, the test operator should discontinue the test and record a failure if a fire develops to such a size as to require suppression for the safety of the facility.
(c)
Testing of mattress sets.
Mattresses labeled for sale with a foundation shall be tested with such foundation. Mattresses labeled for sale without a foundation shall be tested alone.
(d)
Compliance with this standard.
Each mattress set manufactured, imported, or renovated on or after the effective date of the standard shall meet the test criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section and otherwise comply with all applicable requirements of this part 1633.
§ 1633.4
Prototype testing requirements.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each manufacturer shall cause three specimens of each prototype to be tested according to § 1633.7 and obtain passing test results according to § 1633.3(b) before selling or introducing into commerce any mattress set based on that prototype, unless the manufacturer complies with the prototype pooling and confirmation testing requirements in § 1633.5.
(b) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a manufacturer may sell or introduce into commerce a mattress set that has not been tested according to § 1633.7 if that mattress set differs from a qualified or confirmed prototype only with respect to:
(1) Mattress/foundation length and width, not depth (
e.g.
, twin, queen, king);
(2) Ticking, unless the ticking of the qualified prototype has characteristics (such as chemical treatment or special fiber composition) designed to improve performance on the test prescribed in this part; and/or
(3) Any component, material, design or method of assembly, so long as the manufacturer can demonstrate on an objectively reasonable basis that such differences will not cause the mattress set to exceed the test criteria specified in § 1633.3(b).
(c) All tests must be conducted on specimens that are no smaller than a twin size, unless the largest size mattress set produced is smaller than a twin size, in which case the largest size must be tested.
(d)(1) If each of the three specimens meets both the criteria specified in § 1633.3(b), the prototype shall be qualified. If any one (1) specimen fails to meet the test criteria of § 1633.3(b), the prototype is not qualified.
(2) Any manufacturer may produce a mattress set for sale in reliance on prototype tests performed before the effective date of this Standard, provided:
(i) The manufacturer has documentation showing that such tests were conducted in accordance with all requirements of this section and § 1633.7 and yielded passing results according to the test criteria of § 1633.3(b);
(ii) Any tests conducted more than 30 days after publication of this standard in the
Federal Register
must comply
with the recordkeeping requirements in § 1633.11;
(iii) Such mattress sets may be used for prototype pooling only if the manufacturer complies with applicable recordkeeping requirements in § 1633.11; and
(iv) Such mattress sets may serve as the basis for a subordinate prototype only if the manufacturer has all records required by § 1633.11.
§ 1633.5
Prototype pooling and confirmation testing requirements.
(a)
Prototype pooling.
One or more manufacturers may rely on a qualified prototype produced by another manufacturer or prototype developer provided that:
(1) The prototype meets the requirements of § 1633.4;
(2) The mattress sets being produced are the same as the qualified prototype with respect to materials, components, design and methods of assembly; and
(3) The manufacturer producing mattress sets in reliance on a qualified prototype has performed a confirmation test on at least one (1) Specimen of the mattress set it produces in accordance with § 1633.7. The tested specimen must meet the criteria under § 1633.3(b) before any mattress sets based on the qualified prototype may be sold or introduced into commerce.
(b)
Confirmation test failure.
(1) If the confirmation test specimen fails to meet the criteria of § 1633.3(b), the manufacturer thereof shall not sell any mattress set based on the same qualified prototype until that manufacturer takes corrective measures, tests a new specimen, and the new specimen meets the criteria of § 1633.3(b).
(2) If a confirmation test specimen fails to meet the criteria of § 1633.3(b), the manufacturer thereof must notify the manufacturer of the prototype of the test failure.
§ 1633.6
Quality assurance requirements.
(a)
Quality assurance.
Each manufacturer shall implement a quality assurance program to ensure that mattress sets manufactured for sale are the same as the qualified and/or confirmed prototype on which they are based with respect to materials, components, design and methods of assembly, except as permitted by § 1633.4(b). At a minimum these procedures shall include:
(1) Controls, including incoming inspection procedures, of all mattress set materials, components and methods of assembly to ensure that they are the same as those used in the prototype on which they are based;
(2) Designation of a production lot that is represented by the prototype; and
(3) Inspection of mattress sets produced for sale sufficient to demonstrate that they are the same as the prototype on which they are based with respect to materials, components, design and methods of assembly.
(b)
Production testing.
Manufacturers are encouraged to conduct, as part of the quality assurance program, random testing of mattress sets being produced for sale according to the requirements of §§ 1633.3 and 1633.7.
(c)
Failure of mattress sets produced for sale to meet flammability standard
—(1)
Sale of mattress sets.
If any test performed for quality assurance yields results which indicate that any mattress set of a production lot does not meet the criteria of § 1633.3(b), or if a manufacturer obtains test results or other evidence that a component or material or construction/assembly process used could negatively affect the test performance of the mattress set as set forth in § 1633.3(b), the manufacturer shall cease production and distribution in commerce of such mattress sets until corrective action is taken.
(2)
Corrective action.
A manufacturer must take corrective action when any mattress set manufactured or imported for sale fails to meet the flammability test criteria set forth in § 1633.3(b).
§ 1633.7
Mattress test procedure.
(a)
Apparatus and test materials
—(1)
Calorimetry.
The rate of heat release must be measured by means of oxygen consumption calorimetry. The calibration should follow generally accepted practices for calibration. The calorimetry system shall be calibrated at a minimum of two (2) calibration points—at 75 kW and 200 kW.
(2)
Test area.
The test area must have either Test Configuration A or B. The
test area conditions shall be maintained at a temperature greater than 15 °C (59 °F) and less than 27 °C (80.6 °F) and a relative humidity less than 75 percent.
(i)
Test configuration A. (an open calorimeter (or furniture calorimeter)).
In this configuration, the specimen to be tested is placed under the center of an open furniture calorimeter. Figure 1 of this part shows the test assembly atop a bed frame and catch surface. The specimen shall be placed under an open hood which captures the entire smoke plume and is instrumented for heat release rate measurements. The area surrounding the test specimen in an open calorimeter layout shall be sufficiently large that there are no heat re-radiation effects from any nearby materials or objects. The air flow to the test specimen should be symmetrical from all sides. The air flow to the calorimeter hood shall be sufficient to ensure that the entire fire plume is captured, even at peak burning. Skirts may be placed on the hood periphery to help assure this plume capture, if necessary, though they must not be of such an excessive length as to cause the incoming flow to disturb the burning process. Skirts must also not heat up to the point that they contribute significant re-radiation to the test specimen. The air supply to the hood shall be sufficient that the fire is not in any way limited or affected by the available air supply. The fire plume should not enter the hood exhaust duct. Brief (seconds) flickers of flame that occupy only a minor fraction of the hood exhaust duct inlet cross-section are acceptable since they do not signify appreciable suppression of flames.
(ii)
Test configuration B.
The test room shall have dimensions 10 ft. by 12 ft. by 8 ft. (3048 mm × 3658 mm × 2438 mm) high. The specimen is placed within the burn room. All smoke exiting from the room is caught by a hood system instrumented for heat release rate measurements. The room shall have no openings permitting air infiltration other than a doorway opening 38 in ±0.25 in by 80 in ±0.25 in (965 mm ±6.4 mm × 2032 mm ±6.4 mm) located as indicated in Figure 2 of this part and other small openings as necessary to make measurements. The test room shall be constructed of wood or metal studs and shall be lined with fire-rated wallboard or calcium silicate board. An exhaust hood shall be positioned outside of the doorway so as to collect all of the combustion gases. There shall be no obstructions in the air supply to the set-up.
(3)
Location of test specimen.
The location of the test specimen is shown in Figure 2 of this part. The angled placement is intended to minimize the interaction of flames on the side surfaces of the test specimen with the room walls. One corner of the test specimen shall be 13 centimeters (cm) to 17 cm from the wall and the other corner shall be 25 cm to 30 cm from the wall. The test room shall contain no other furnishings or combustible materials except for the test specimen.
(4)
Bed frame.
(i)
Frame dimensions.
The specimen shall be supported around its perimeter by the bed frame with a flat surface and no edges extending up from the surface (i.e., the angle is configured down). For twin size mattresses, the specimen shall be placed on top of a welded bed frame 1.90 m by 0.99 m (75 in by 39 in) made from 40 mm (1.50 in) steel angle. If testing a size other than twin, the test frame shall similarly match the dimensions of the specimen.
(ii)
Frame height.
The frame shall be 115 mm (4.5 in) high, except if adjustments are necessary to accommodate the required burner position in paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section. The height of the test frame shall also be adjusted, as necessary, so that the burner is no less than 25mm (1 in) above the supporting surface.
(iii)
Frame crosspieces.
The frame shall be completely open under the foundation except for two crosspieces, 25 mm wide (1 in) at the
1/3
length points, except when sagging of the specimen between the crosspieces exceeds 19 mm (
3/4
in) below the test frame. Minimal additional crosspieces shall then be added to prevent sagging of the specimen.
(5)
Catch pan.
The bed frame feet shall rest on a surface of either calcium silicate board or fiber cement board, 13 mm (0.5 in) thick, 2.11 m by 1.19 m (83 in by 47 in). The board serves
as a catch surface for any flaming melt/drip material falling from the bed assembly and may be the location of a pool fire that consumes such materials. This surface must be cleaned between tests to avoid build-up of combustible residues. Lining this surface with aluminum foil to facilitate cleaning is not recommended since this might increase fire intensity via reflected radiation.
(6)
Ignition source
—(i)
General.
The ignition source shall consist of two T-shaped burners as shown in Figures 3 and 4 of this part. One burner impinges flames on the top surface of the mattress. The second burner impinges flames on the side of the mattress and on the side of the foundation. Each of the burners shall be constructed from stainless steel tubing (12.7 mm diameter with 0.89 ±0.5 mm wall thickness; 0.50 in diameter with 0.035 ±0.002 in wall). Each burner shall incorporate a stand-off foot to set its distance from the test specimen surface (Figure 5 of this part). Both burners shall be mounted with a mechanical pivot point but the side burner is locked in place to prevent movement about this pivot in normal usage. The top burner, however, is free to rotate about its pivot during a burner exposure and is lightly weighted so as to exert a downward force on the mattress top through its stand-off foot so that the burner follows a receding top surface on the test specimen (Figure 6 of this part). The combination of burner stand-off distance and propane gas flow rate to the burners determines the heat flux they impose on the surface of the test specimen so that both of these parameters are tightly controlled.
(ii)
Top surface burner.
The T head of the top surface burner (horizontal burner, Figure 3 of this part) shall be 305 ±2 mm (12 ±0.08 in) long with gas tight plugs in each end. Each side of the T shall contain 17 holes equally spaced over a 135 mm length (8.5 mm ±0.1 mm apart; 0.333 ±0.005 in). The holes on each side shall begin 8.5 mm (0.33 in) from the centerline of the burner head. The holes shall be 1.45 mm to 1.53 mm (0.058 in to 0.061 in) in diameter (which corresponds to Grade 10 machining practice with a well formed #53 drill bit). The holes shall point 5° out of the plane of the diagram in Figure 3. This broadens the width of the heat flux profile imposed on the surface of the test specimen.
(iii)
Side surface burner.
The T head of the side surface burner (vertical burner) shall be constructed similarly to the top surface burner, as shown in Figure 4 of this part, except that its overall length shall be 254 ±2 mm (10 ±0.08 in). Each side of the burner head shall contain 14 holes spaced evenly over a 110 mm length (8.5 mm ±0.1 mm apart; 0.333 ±0.005 in). The holes shall be 1.45 mm to 1.53 mm (0.058 in to 0.061 in) in diameter (which corresponds to Grade 10 machining practice with a well formed #53 drill bit). The holes shall point 5° out of the plane of the diagram in Figure 4.
(iv)
Burner stand-off.
The burner stand-off on each burner shall consist of a collar fixed by a set screw onto the inlet tube of the burner head (Figure 5 of this part). The collar shall hold a 3 mm diameter stainless steel rod having a 12.7 mm by 51 mm by (2-2.5 mm) thick (0.5 in by 2 in by (0.08-0.10 in) thick) stainless steel pad welded on its end with its face (and long axis) parallel to the T head of the burner. The foot pad shall be displaced about 10 mm to 12 mm from the longitudinal centerline of the burner head so that it does not rest on the test specimen in an area of peak heat flux.
(v)
Burner inlet lines.
A short section (9.5 mm outer diameter (“OD”), about 80 mm long;
3/8
in OD, about 3.2 in long) of copper tubing shall be placed in the inlet gas line just before the burner to facilitate making the burner nominally parallel to the test specimen surface (by a procedure described below). The copper tube on the top surface burner should be protected from excessive heat and surface oxidation by wrapping it with a suitable layer of high temperature insulation to protect the equipment. Both copper tubes are to be bent by hand in the burner alignment process. They must be replaced if they become work-hardened or crimped in any way. The gas inlet lines (12.7 mm OD stainless steel tubing; 0.50 in) serve as arms leading back to the pivot points and beyond, as shown in Figure 6 of this part. The length to the pivot for the top burner shall be approximately 1000 mm (40 in).
(vi)
Burner frame.
Figure 6 of this part shows the frame that holds the burners and their pivots, which are adjustable vertically in height. All adjustments (burner height, burner arm length from the pivot point, counterweight positions along the burner arm) are facilitated by the use of knobs or thumbscrews as the set screws. The three point footprint of the burner frame, with the two forward points on wheels, facilitates burner movement and burner stability when stationary.
(vii)
Arms.
The metal arms attached to the burners shall be attached to a separate gas control console by flexible, reinforced plastic tubing.
1
The gas control console is mounted separately so as to facilitate its safe placement outside of the test room throughout the test procedure. The propane gas lines running between the console and the burner assembly must be anchored on the assembly before running to the burner inlet arms. A 1.5 m ±25 mm (58 in ±1 in) length of flexible, reinforced tubing between the anchor point and the end of each burner inlet allows free movement of the top burner about its pivot point. The top burner arm shall have a pair of moveable cylindrical counterweights that are used, as described below, to adjust the downward force on the stand-off foot.
1
Fiber-reinforced plastic tubing (6 mm ID by 9.5 mm OD; 0.25 inch ID by 0.4 inch OD) made of PVC should be used.
(viii)
Burner head.
Each burner head shall have a separate pilot light consisting of a 3 mm OD (
1/8
in OD) copper tube with an independently-controlled supply of propane gas. The tube terminates within 10 mm of the center of the burner head. Care must be taken to set the pilot flame size small enough so as not to heat the test specimen before the timed burner exposure is begun.
(ix)
Flow control system.
Each burner shall have a flow control system of the type shown in Figure 7 of this part. Propane gas from a source such as a bottle is reduced in pressure to approximately 140 ±5 kilopascals (“kPa”) (20 ±1 pounds per square inch gage (“psig”)) and fed to the system shown in Figure 7 of this part. The gas flow to the burner is delivered in a square-wave manner (constant flow with rapid onset and termination) by means of the solenoid valve upstream of the flowmeter. An interval timer (accurate to ±0.2 s) determines the burner flame duration. The pilot light assures that the burner will ignite when the solenoid valve opens.
2
The gas flow shall be set using a rotameter type of flowmeter, with a 150 mm scale, calibrated for propane. When calibrating the flowmeter, take into account that the flow resistance of the burner holes causes a finite pressure increase in the flowmeter above ambient. (If a calibration at one atmosphere is provided by the manufacturer, the flowmeter reading, at the internal pressure existing in the meter, required to get the flow rates listed below must be corrected, typically by the square root of the absolute pressure ratio. This calls for measuring the actual pressure in the flow meters when set near the correct flow values. A value roughly in the range of 1 kPa to 3 kPa—5 in to 15 in of water—can be expected.) See information on calibration in paragraph (b) of this section.
2
If the side burner, or more commonly one half of the side burner, fails to ignite quickly, adjust the position of the igniter, bearing in mind that propane is heavier than air. The best burner behavior test assessment is done against an inert surface (to spread the gas as it would during an actual test).
(x)
Gas flow rate.
Use propane gas: The propane shall be minimum 99% pure (often described by suppliers as CP or “chemically pure” grade, but this designation should not be relied on since the actual purity may vary by supplier). Each burner has a specific propane gas flow rate set with its respective, calibrated flowmeter. The gas flow rate to the top burner is 12.9 liters per minute (“L/min”) ±0.1 L/min at a pressure of 101 ±5 kPa (standard atmospheric pressure) and a temperature of 22 ±3 °C. The gas flow rate to the side burner is 6.6 ±0.05 L/min at a pressure of 101 ±5 kPa (standard atmospheric pressure) and a temperature of 22 ±3 °C. The total heat release rate of the burners is 27 kW.
(b)
Calibration of Propane Flowmeters
—(1)
Preparation.
Once the assembly of the burner is completed and all the connecting points are checked for gas leakage, the most critical task is ensuring the exact flow rates of propane
into the top and side burners, as described in the test protocol. The gas flow rates are specified at 12.9 Liters per minute (LPM) ±0.1 LPM and 6.6 LPM ±0.05 LPM for the top and side burners (Burners 1 and 2), respectively, at a pressure of 101 ±5 kiloPascal (kPa) (standard atmospheric pressure) and a temperature of 22 ±3 °C. The rotameters that are installed in the control box of the burner assembly need to be calibrated for accurate measurement of these flow rates.
(i) The most practical and accurate method of measuring and calibrating the flow rate of gases (including propane) is use of a diaphragm test meter (also called a dry test meter). A diaphragm test meter functions based on positive displacement of a fixed volume of gas per rotation and its reading is therefore independent of the type of the gas being used. The gas pressure and temperature, however, can have significant impact on the measurement of flow rate.
(ii) The gas pressure downstream of the rotameters that are installed in the control box of the burner assembly should be maintained near atmospheric pressure (only a few millimeters of water above atmosphere). Therefore, the best location to place the diaphragm test meter for gas flow calibration is right downstream of the control box. The pressure at the propane tank must be set at 20 ±1 pounds per square inch gage (psig).
(2)
Calibration Procedure.
Install the diaphragm test meter (DTM) downstream of the control box in the line for the top burner. Check all connecting points for gas leakage. Open the main valve on the propane tank and set a pressure of 20 ±0.5 psig. Set the timers in the control box for 999 seconds (or the maximum range possible). Record the barometric pressure. Turn the “Burner 1” switch to ON and ignite the top burner. Allow the gas to flow for 2-3 minutes until the DTM is stabilized. Record the pressure and temperature in the DTM. Use a stopwatch to record at least one minute worth of complete rotations while counting the number of rotations.
3
Calculate the propane gas flow rate using the recorded time and number of rotations (total flow in that time). Use the pressure and temperature readings to convert to standard conditions. Repeat this measurement for two additional meter setting to allow for calibrating the flowmeter throughout the range of interest. Plot the flow versus meter reading, fit a best line (possibly quadratic) through these points to find the meter setting for a flow of 12.9 LPM at the above “standard conditions.” Repeat this procedure for “Burner 2” using three meter readings to find the setting that gives a flow rate of 6.6 LPM at the standard conditions. After completion of the calibration, re-set the timers to 70 and 50 seconds.
3
With a diaphragm test meter well-sized to this application, this should be more than five rotations. A one liter per rotation meter will require 10 to 15 rotations for the flow measurements and greater than the minimum of one minute recording time specified here.
(c)
Conditioning.
Remove the specimens from any packaging prior to conditioning. Specimens shall be conditioned in air at a temperature greater than 18 °C (65 °F) and less than 25 °C (77 °F) and a relative humidity less than 55 percent for at least 48 continuous hours prior to test. Specimens shall be supported in a manner to permit free movement of air around them during conditioning.
(d)
Test preparation
—(1)
General.
Horizontal air flow at a distance of 0.5 m (20 in) on all sides of the test specimen at the mattress top height shall be no more than 0.5 m/s. If there is any visual evidence that the burner flames are disturbed by drafts during their exposure durations, the burner regions must be enclosed on two or more sides by at least a triple layer of screen wire. The screens shall be at least 25 cm tall. The screen(s) for the top burner shall sit on the mattress top and shall be wide enough to extend beyond the area of the burner impingement. All screens shall be far enough away (typically 30 cm or more) from the burner tubes so as not to interfere or interact with flame spread during the burner exposure. The screen for the side burner will require a separate support from below. All screens shall be removed at
the end of the 70 second exposure interval.
(2)
Specimen.
Remove the test specimen from the conditioning room immediately before it is to be tested. Testing shall begin within 20 minutes after removal from the conditioning area. Be sure the test frame is approximately centered on the catch surface. Carefully center the foundation on top of the test frame to eliminate any gaps between the bottom periphery of the foundation and the inside edges of the test frame. If the mattress is to be tested alone, place it similarly. A mattress tested with its foundation should be centered longitudinally and laterally on the foundation. Carefully center them on the bed frame and on each other. The mattress shall be centered on top of the foundation (see Figure 1 of this part). However, in order to keep the heat flux exposure the same for the sides of the two components, if the mattress is 1 cm to 2 cm narrower than the foundation, the mattress shall be shifted so that the side to be exposed is in the same plane as the foundation. Refer to Figure 8 of this part. A product having an intended sleep surface on only one side shall be tested with the sleeping side up so that the sleeping surface is exposed to the propane burner.
(e)
Burner flow rate/flow timer confirmation.
Just prior to moving the burner adjacent to the test specimen, briefly ignite each burner at the same time, and check that the propane flow to that burner is set at the appropriate level on its flowmeter to provide the flows listed in § 1633.7(a)(6)(x). Check that the timers for the burner exposures are set to 70 seconds for the top burner and 50 seconds for the side burner. For a new burner assembly, check the accuracy of the gas flow timers against a stop watch at these standard time settings. Set pilot flows to a level that will not cause them to impinge on sample surfaces.
(f)
Location of the gas burners.
The general layout for the room configuration is shown in Figure 2 of this part. Place the burner heads so that they are within 300 mm (1 ft) of the mid-length of the mattress. If there are unique construction features (e.g., handles, zippers) within the burner placement zone, the burner shall impinge on this feature. For a quilted mattress top the stand-off foot pad must alight on a high, flat area between dimples or quilting thread runs. The same is to be true for the side burner if that surface is quilted. If a specimen design presents a conflict in placement such that both burners cannot be placed between local depressions in the surface, the top burner shall be placed at the highest flat surface.
(g)
Burner set-up.
The burners shall be placed in relation to the mattress and foundation surfaces in the manner shown in Figure 9 of this part, i.e., at the nominal spacings shown there and with the burner tubes nominally parallel
4
to the mattress surfaces on which they impinge. Since the heat flux levels seen by the test specimen surfaces depend on burner spacing, as well as gas flow rate, care must be taken with the set-up process.
4
The top burner will tend to be tangential to the mattress surface at the burner mid-length; this orientation will not necessarily be parallel to the overall average mattress surface orientation nor will it necessarily be horizontal. This is a result of the shape of the mattress top surface.
(h)
Burner alignment procedure
—(1)
Preparation.
Complete the following before starting the alignment procedure:
(i) Check that the pivot point for the mattress top burner feed tube and the two metal plates around it are clean and well-lubricated so as to allow smooth, free movement.
(ii) Set the two burners such that the 5° out-of-plane angling of the flame jets makes the jets on the two burners point slightly
toward
each other.
(iii) Check the burner stand-off feet for straightness and perpendicularity between foot pad and support rod and to see that they are clean of residue from a previous test.
(iv) Have at hand the following items to assist in burner set-up: The jig, shown in Figure 10 of this part, for setting the stand-off feet at their proper distances from the front of the burner tube; a 3 mm thick piece of flat stock (any material) to assist in checking the parallelness of the burners to the mattress surfaces; and a 24 gage stainless steel sheet metal platen that is 30 mm (12 in) wide, 610 mm (24 in) long and has
a sharp, precise 90° bend 355 mm (14 in) from one 30 mm wide end or another dimension that meets the requirements for a specific sample.
(2)
Alignment.
(i) Place the burner assembly adjacent to the test specimen. Place the sheet metal platen on the mattress with the shorter side on top. The location shall be within 30 cm (1 ft) of the longitudinal center of the mattress. The intended location of the stand-off foot of the top burner shall not be in a dimple or crease caused by the quilting of the mattress top. Press the platen laterally inward from the edge of the mattress so that its side makes contact with either the top and bottom edge or the vertical side of the mattress.
5
Use a sufficient length of duct tape (platen to mattress top) to assure that the platen stays firmly against the surfaces of the mattress.
5
Mattresses having a convex side are treated separately since the platen cannot be placed in the above manner. Use the platen only to set the top burner parallelness. Set the in/out distance of the top burner to the specification in paragraph (h)(1)(iii). Set the side burner so that it is approximately (visually) parallel to the flat side surface of the foundation below the mattress/foundation crevice once its foot is in contact with the materials in the crevice area. The burner will not be vertical in this case. If the foundation side is also non-flat, set the side burner vertical (±3 mm, as above) using a bubble level as a reference. The side surface convexities will then bring the bowed out sections of the specimen closer to the burner tube than the stand-off foot.
(ii) With both burner arms horizontal (pinned in this position), fully retract the stand-off feet of both burners and, if necessary, the pilot tubes as well.
6
(Neither is to protrude past the front face of the burner tubes at this point.) Move the burner assembly forward (perpendicular to the mattress) until the vertical burner lightly contacts the sheet metal platen. Adjust the height of the vertical burner on its vertical support column so as to center the tube on the crevice between the mattress and the foundation. (This holds also for pillow top mattress tops, i.e., ignore the crevice between the pillow top and the main body of the mattress.)
7
Adjust the height of the horizontal burner until it sits lightly on top of the sheet metal platen. Its burner arm should then be horizontal.
6
The pilot tubes can normally be left with their ends just behind the plane of the front of the burner tube. This way they will not interfere with positioning of the tube but their flame will readily ignite the burner tubes.
7
For tests of the mattress alone, set the center of the side burner at the lower edge of the mattress OR the top (upper tip) of the side burner 25 mm (1 in) below the top edge of the mattress, whichever is lower. This prevents inappropriate (excessive) exposure of the top surface of the mattress to the side burner.
(iii) Move the horizontal burner in/out (loosen the thumb screw near the pivot point) until the outer end of the burner tube is 13 mm to 19 mm (
1/2
in to
3/4
in) from the corner bend in the platen (this is facilitated by putting a pair of lines on the top of the platen 13 mm and 19 mm from the bend and parallel to it). Tighten the thumb screw.
(iv) Make the horizontal burner parallel to the top of the platen (within 3 mm (
1/8
inch) over the burner tube length); when properly parallel, it should not be possible to insert the 3 mm flat stock under either burner end by bending the copper tube section appropriately. Note: After the platen is removed (in paragraph (h)(2)(vii) of this section), the burner tube may not be horizontal; this is normal. For mattress/foundation combinations having nominally flat, vertical sides, the similar adjustment for the vertical burner is intended to make that burner parallel to the sides and vertical. Variations in the shape of mattresses and foundations can cause the platen section on the side to be non-flat and/or non-vertical. If the platen is flat and vertical, make the vertical burner parallel to the side of the platen (±3 mm) by bending its copper tube section as needed. If not, make the side burner parallel to the mattress/foundation sides by the best visual estimate after the platen has been removed.
(v) Move the burner assembly perpendicularly back away from the mattress about 30 cm (1 ft). Set the two stand-off feet to their respective distances using the jig designed for this purpose. Install the jig
fully
onto the burner tube (on the
same side
of the tube as the stand-off foot), with its side edges parallel to the burner feed arm,
at about the position where one end of the foot will be. Loosen the set screw and slide the foot out to the point where it is flush with the bottom end of the jig. Tighten the set screw. Make sure the long axis of the foot is parallel to the burner tube. It is essential to use the correct side of the spacer jig with each burner. Double check this. The jig must be clearly marked.
(vi) Set the downward force of the horizontal burner. Remove the retainer pin near the pivot. While holding the burner feed arm horizontal using a spring scale
8
hooked onto the thumbscrew holding the stand-off foot, move the small and/or large weights on the feed tube appropriately so that the spring scale reads 170 g to 225 g (6 oz to 8 oz).
8
An acceptable spring scale has a calibrated spring mounted within a holder and hooks on each end.
(vii) Remove the sheet metal platen (and tape holding it).
(viii) Hold the horizontal burner up while sliding the burner assembly forward until the vertical burner stand-off foot just touches the mattress and/or the foundation, then release the horizontal burner. The outer end of the burner tube should extend at least 6 mm to 12 mm (
1/4
in to
1/2
in) out beyond the uppermost corner/edge of the mattress so that the burner flames will hit the edge. (For a pillow top mattress, this means the outer edge of the pillow top portion and the distance may then be greater than 6 mm to 12 mm.) If this is not the case, move the burner assembly (perpendicular to the mattress side)—not the horizontal burner alone—until it is.
9
Finally, move the vertical burner tube until its stand-off foot just touches the side of the mattress and/or the foundation. (Use the set screw near the vertical burner pivot.)
9
The foot should depress the surface it first contacts by no more than 1 mm to 2 mm. This is best seen up close, not from the rear of the burner assembly. However, if a protruding edge is the first item contacted, compress it until the foot is in the plane of the mattress/foundation vertical sides. The intent here is that the burner be spaced a fixed distance from the vertical mattress/foundation sides, not from an incidental protrusion. Similarly, if there is a wide crevice in this area which would allow the foot to move inward and thereby place the burners too close to the vertical mattress/foundation sides, it will be necessary to use the spacer jig (rather than the stand-off foot) above or below this crevice to set the proper burner spacing. Compress the mattress/foundation surface 1 mm to 2 mm when using the jig for this purpose.
(ix) Make sure all thumbscrews are adequately tightened. Care must be taken, once this set-up is achieved, to avoid bumping the burner assembly or disturbing the flexible lines that bring propane to it.
(x) If there is
any
indication of flow disturbances in the test facility which cause the burner flames or pilot flames to move around, place screens around the burners so as to minimize these disturbances.
10
These screens (and any holders) must be far enough away from the burners (about 30 cm or more for the top, less for the side) so that they do not interact with the flames growing on the specimen surfaces. For the top surface burner, at least a triple layer of window screen approximately 30 cm high sitting vertically on the mattress top (Figure 9 of this part) has proved satisfactory. For the side burner at least a triple layer of screen approximately 15 cm wide, formed into a square-bottom U-shape and held from below the burner has proved satisfactory. Individual laboratories will have to experiment with the best arrangement for suppressing flow disturbances in their facility.
10
The goal here is to keep the burner flames impinging on a fixed area of the specimen surface rather than wandering back and forth over a larger area.
(i)
Running the test.
(1) Charge the hose line to be used for fire suppression with water.
(2)
Burner Preparation.
(i) Turn AC power on; set propane pressure to 20 psig at bottle; set timers to 70 s (top burner) and 50 s (side burner); with burner assembly well-removed from test specimen, ignite burners and check that, WHEN BOTH ARE ON AT THE SAME TIME, the flowmeters are set to the values that give the requisite propane gas flow rates to each burner. Turn off burners. Set pilot tubes just behind front surface of burners; set pilot flow valves for approximately 2 cm flames. Turn off pilots.
(ii) Position burner on test specimen and remove sheet metal platen.
(iii) Place screens around both burners.
(3)
Start pilots.
Open pilot ball valves one at a time and ignite pilots with hand-held flame; adjust flame size if necessary being very careful to avoid a jet flame that could prematurely ignite the test specimen (Note that after a long interval between tests the low pilot flow rate will require a long time to displace air in the line and achieve the steady-state flame size.)
(4)
Start recording systems.
With the calorimetry system fully operational, after instrument zeroes and spans, start the video lights and video camera and data logging systems two minutes before burner ignition (or, if not using video, take a picture of the setup).
(5)
Initiate test.
Start test exposure by simultaneously turning on power to both timers (timers will turn off burners at appropriate times). Also start a 30 minute timer of the test duration. Check/adjust propane flow rates (DO THIS ESSENTIAL TASK IMMEDIATELY. Experience shows the flow will not remain the same from test-to-test in spite of fixed valve positions so adjustment is essential.) If not using video, one photo must be taken within the first 45 seconds of starting the burners.
(6)
End of burner exposure.
When the burners go out (after 70 seconds for the longer exposure), carefully lift the top burner tube away from the specimen surface, producing as little disturbance as possible to the specimen. Turn off power to both timers. Remove all screens. Turn off pilots at their ball valves. Remove the burner assembly from the specimen area to facilitate the video camera view of the full side of the specimen. In the case of the room-based configurations, remove the burner assembly from the room to protect it.
(j)
Video Recording/Photographs.
Place a video or still frame camera so as to have (when the lens is zoomed out) just slightly more than a full-length view of the side of the test specimen being ignited, including a view of the flame impingement area while the burner assembly is present. The view must also include the catch pan so that it is clear whether any melt pool fire in this pan participates significantly in the growth of fire on the test specimen. The camera shall include a measure of elapsed time to the nearest 1 second for video and 1 minute for still frame within its recorded field of view (preferably built into the camera). For the room-based configuration, the required full-length view of the sample may require an appropriately placed window, sealed with heat resistant glass, in one of the room walls. Place the camera at a height just sufficient to give a view of the top of the specimen while remaining under any smoke layer that may develop in the room. The specimen shall be brightly lit so that the image does not lose detail to over-exposed flames. This will require a pair or more of 1 kW photo flood lights illuminating the viewed side of the specimen. The lights may need to shine into the room from the outside via sealed windows.
(k)
Cessation of Test.
(1) The heat release rate shall be recorded and video/photographs taken until either 30 minutes has elapsed since the start of the burner exposure or a fire develops of such size as to require suppression for the safety of the facility.
(2) Note the time and nature of any unusual behavior that is not fully within the view of the video camera. This is most easily done by narration to a camcorder.
(3) Run the heat release rate system and datalogger until the fire has been fully out for several minutes to allow the system zero to be recorded.
(l)
Use of alternate apparatus.
Mattress sets may be tested using test apparatus that differs from that described in this section if the manufacturer obtains and provides to the Commission data demonstrating that tests using the alternate apparatus during the procedures specified in this section yield failing results as often as, or more often than, tests using the apparatus specified in the standard. The manufacturer shall provide the supporting data to the Office of Compliance, Recalls
Compliance Division,
U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland 20814. Staff will review the data and determine whether the alternate apparatus may be used.
[71 FR 13498, Mar. 15, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 6842, Feb. 6, 2008]
§ 1633.8
Findings.
(a)
General.
In order to issue a flammability standard under the FFA, the FFA requires the Commission to make certain findings and to include these in the regulation, 15 U.S.C. 1193(j)(2). These findings are discussed in this section.
(b)
Voluntary standards.
No findings concerning compliance with and adequacy of a voluntary standard are necessary because no relevant voluntary standard addressing the risk of injury that is addressed by this regulation has been adopted and implemented.
(c)
Relationship of benefits to costs.
The Commission estimates the potential total lifetime benefits of a mattress that complies with this standard to range from $45 to $57 per mattress set (based on a 10 year mattress life and a 3% discount rate). The Commission estimates total resource costs of the standard to range from $8 to $22 per mattress. This yields net benefits of $23 to $50 per mattress set. The Commission estimates that aggregate lifetime benefits associated with all mattresses produced the first year the standard becomes effective range from $1,024 to $1,307 million, and that aggregate resource costs associated with these mattresses range from $175 to $511 million, yielding net benefits of about $514 to $1,132 million. Accordingly, the Commission finds that the benefits from the regulation bear a reasonable relationship to its costs.
(d)
Least burdensome requirement.
The Commission considered the following alternatives: alternative maximum peak heat release rate and test duration, alternative total heat released in the first 10 minutes of the test, mandatory production testing, a longer effective date, taking no action, relying on a voluntary standard, and requiring labeling alone (without any performance requirements). The alternatives of taking no action, relying on a voluntary standard (if one existed), and requiring labeling alone are unlikely to adequately reduce the risk. Requiring a criterion of 25 MJ total heat release during the first 10 minutes of the test instead of 15 MJ would likely reduce the estimated benefits (deaths and injuries reduced) without having much effect on costs. Both options of increasing the duration of the test from 30 minutes to 60 minutes and decreasing the peak rate of heat release from 200 kW to 150 kW would likely increase costs significantly without substantial increase in benefits. Requiring production testing would also likely increase costs. Therefore, the Commission finds that an open flame standard for mattresses with the testing requirements and criteria that are specified in the Commission rule is the least burdensome requirement that would prevent or adequately reduce the risk of injury for which the regulation is being promulgated.
§ 1633.9
Glossary of terms.
(a)
Absorbent pad.
Pad used on top of mattress. Designed to absorb moisture/body fluids thereby reducing skin irritation, can be one time use.
(b)
Basket pad.
Cushion for use in an infant basket.
(c)
Bunk beds.
A tier of beds, usually two or three, in a high frame complete with mattresses (see Figure 11 of this part).
(d)
Car bed.
Portable bed used to carry a baby in an automobile.
(e)
Carriage pad.
Cushion to go into a baby carriage.
(f)
Chaise lounge.
An upholstered couch chair or a couch with a chair back. It has a permanent back rest, no arms, and sleeps one (see Figure 11).
(g)
Convertible sofa.
An upholstered sofa that converts into an adult sized bed. Mattress unfolds out and up from under the seat cushioning (see Figure 11).
(h)
Corner groups.
Two twin size bedding sets on frames, usually slipcovered, and abutted to a corner table. They also usually have loose bolsters slipcovered (see Figure 11).
(i)
Crib bumper.
Padded cushion which goes around three or four sides inside a crib to protect the baby. Can also be used in a playpen.
(j)
Daybed.
Daybed has foundation, usually supported by coil or flat springs, mounted between arms on which mattress is placed. It has permanent arms, no backrest, and sleeps one (see Figure 11).
(k)
Dressing table pad.
Pad to cushion a baby on top of a dressing table.
(l)
Drop-arm loveseat.
When side arms are in vertical position, this piece is a loveseat. The adjustable arms can be lowered to one of four positions for a chaise lounge effect or a single sleeper. The vertical back support always remains upright and stationary (see Figure 11).
(m)
Futon.
A flexible mattress generally used on the floor that can be folded or rolled up for storage. It usually consists of resilient material covered by ticking.
(n)
High riser.
This is a frame of sofa seating height with two equal size mattresses without a backrest. The frame slides out with the lower mattress and rises to form a double or two single beds (see Figure 11).
(o)
Infant carrier and lounge pad.
Pad to cushion a baby in an infant carrier.
(p)
Mattress foundation.
This is a ticking covered structure used to support a mattress or sleep surface. The structure may include constructed frames, foam, box springs or other materials used alone or in combination.
(q)
Murphy bed.
A style of sleep system where the mattress and foundation are fastened to the wall and provide a means to retract or rotate the bed assembly into the wall to release more floor area for other uses.
(r)
Pillow.
Cloth bag filled with resilient material such as feathers, down, sponge rubber, urethane, or fiber used as the support for the head of a person.
(s)
Playpen pad.
Cushion used on the bottom of a playpen.
(t)
Portable crib.
Smaller size than a conventional crib. Can usually be converted into a playpen.
(u)
Quilted
means stitched with thread or by fusion through the ticking and one or more layers of material.
(v)
Roll-away-bed.
Portable bed which has frame that folds with the mattress for compact storage.
(w)
Sleep lounge.
Upholstered seating section which is mounted on a frame. May have bolster pillows along the wall as backrests or may have attached headrests (see Figure 11).
(x)
Stroller pad.
Cushion used in a baby stroller.
(y)
Sofa bed.
These are pieces in which the back of the sofa swings down flat with the seat to form the sleeping surface. Some sofa beds have bedding boxes for storage of bedding. There are two types: the one-piece, where the back and seat are upholstered as a unit, supplying an unbroken sleeping surface; and the two-piece, where back and seat are upholstered separately (see Figure 11 of this part).
(z)
Sofa lounge
—(includes glideouts). Upholstered seating section is mounted on springs and in a frame that permit it to be pulled out for sleeping. Has upholstered backrest bedding box that is hinged. Glideouts are single sleepers with sloping seats and backrests. Seat pulls out from beneath back and evens up to supply level sleeping surface (see Figure 11).
(aa)
Studio couch.
Consists of upholstered seating section on upholstered foundation. Many types convert to twin beds (see Figure 11).
(bb)
Studio divan.
Twin size upholstered seating section with foundation is mounted on metal bed frame. Has no arms or backrest, and sleeps one (see Figure 11 of this part).
(cc)
Trundle bed.
A low bed which is rolled under a larger bed. In some lines, the lower bed springs up to form a double or two single beds as in a high riser (see Figure 11).
(dd)
Tufted
means buttoned or laced through the ticking and upholstery material and/or core, or having the ticking and loft material and/or core drawn together at intervals by any other method which produces a series of depressions on the surface.
(ee)
Twin studio divan.
Frames which glide out (but not up) and use seat cushions, in addition to upholstered foundation to sleep two. Has neither arms nor back rest (see Figure 11).
(ff)
Flip or sleeper chair.
Chair that unfolds to be used for sleeping, typically has several connecting fabric covered, solid foam core segments.

# Subpart B—Rules and Regulations
§ 1633.10
Definitions.
(a)
Standard
means the Standard for the Flammability (Open-Flame) of Mattress Sets (16 CFR part 1633, subpart A).
(b) The definition of terms set forth in the § 1633.2 of the Standard shall also apply to this section.
§ 1633.11
Records.
(a)
Test and manufacturing records C general.
Every manufacturer and any other person initially introducing into commerce mattress sets subject to the standard, irrespective of whether guarantees are issued relative thereto, shall maintain the following records in English at a location in the United States:
(1) Test results and details of each test performed by or for that manufacturer (including failures), whether for qualification, confirmation, or production, in accordance with § 1633.7. Details shall include: name and complete physical address of test facility, type of test room, test room conditions, time that sample spent out of conditioning area before starting test, prototype or production identification number, and test data including the peak rate of heat release, total heat release in first 10 minutes, a graphic depiction of the peak rate of heat release and total heat release over time. These records shall include the name and signature of person conducting the test, the date of the test, and a certification by the person overseeing the testing as to the test results and that the test was carried out in accordance with the Standard. For confirmation tests, the identification number must be that of the prototype tested.
(2) Video and/or a minimum of eight photographs of the testing of each mattress set, in accordance with § 1633.7 (one taken before the test starts, one taken within 45 seconds of the start of the test, and the remaining six taken at five minute intervals, starting at 5 minutes and ending at 30 minutes), with the prototype identification number or production lot identification number of the mattress set, date and time of test, and name and location of testing facility clearly displayed.
(b)
Prototype records.
In addition to the records specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the following records shall be maintained for each qualified, confirmed and subordinate prototype:
(1) Unique identification number for the qualified or confirmed prototype and a list of the unique identification numbers of each subordinate prototype based on the qualified or confirmed prototype. Subordinate prototypes that differ from each other only be length or width may share the same identification number.
(2) A detailed description of all materials, components, and methods of assembly for each qualified, confirmed and subordinate prototype. Such description shall include the specifications of all materials and components, and the name and complete physical address of each material and component supplier.
(3) A list of which models and production lots of mattress sets are represented by each qualified, confirmed and/or subordinate prototype identification number.
(4) For subordinate prototypes, the prototype identification number of the qualified or confirmed prototype on which the mattress set is based, and, at a minimum, the manufacturing specifications and a description of the materials substituted, photographs or physical specimens of the substituted materials, and documentation based on objectively reasonable criteria that the change in any component, material, or method of assembly will not cause the subordinate prototype to exceed the test criteria specified in § 1633.3(b).
(5) Identification, composition, and details of the application of any flame retardant treatments and/or inherently flame resistant fibers or other materials employed in mattress components.
(c)
Pooling confirmation test records.
In addition to the test and prototype records specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the following records shall be maintained:
(1) The prototype identification number assigned by the qualified prototype manufacturer;
(2) Name and complete physical address of the qualified prototype manufacturer;
(3) Copy of qualified prototype test records, and records required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(4) In the case of imported mattress sets, the importer shall be responsible for maintaining the records specified in paragraph (b) of this section for confirmation testing that has been performed with respect to mattress sets produced by each foreign manufacturing facility whose mattress sets that importer is importing.
(d)
Quality assurance records.
In addition to the records required by paragraph (a) of this section, the following quality assurance records shall be maintained:
(1) A written copy of the manufacturer's quality assurance procedures;
(2) Records of any production tests performed. Production test records must be maintained and shall include, in addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, an assigned production lot identification number and the identification number of the qualified, confirmed or subordinate prototype associated with the specimen tested;
(3) For each qualified, confirmed and subordinate prototype, the number of mattress sets in each production lot based on that prototype;
(4) The start and end dates of production of that lot; and
(5) Component, material and assembly records. Every manufacturer conducting tests and/or technical evaluations of components and materials and/or methods of assembly must maintain detailed records of such tests and evaluations.
(e)
Record retention requirements.
The records required under this Section shall be maintained by the manufacturer (including importers) for as long as mattress sets based on the prototype in question are in production and shall be retained for 3 years thereafter. Records shall be available upon the request of Commission staff.
(f) Record location requirements. (1) For mattress sets produced in the United States, all records required by this section must be maintained at the plant or factory at which the mattress sets are manufactured or assembled.
(2) For mattress sets produced outside of the United States, a copy of all records required by this section must be maintained at a U.S. location, which must be identified on the mattress set label as specified in § 1633.12(a).
§ 1633.12
Labeling.
(a) Each mattress set subject to the Standard shall bear a permanent, conspicuous, and legible label(s) containing the following information (and no other information) in English:
(1) Name of the manufacturer, or for imported mattress sets, the name of the foreign manufacturer and importer;
(2)(i) For mattress sets produced in the United States, the complete physical address of the manufacturer.
(ii) For imported mattress sets, the complete address of the foreign manufacturer, including country, and the complete physical address of the importer or the United States location where the required records are maintained if different from the importer;
(3) Month and year of manufacture;
(4) Model identification;
(5) Prototype identification number for the mattress set;
(6) A certification that the mattress complies with this standard.
(i) For mattresses intended to be sold without a foundation, a certification stating “This mattress meets the requirements of 16 CFR part 1633 (federal flammability (open flame) standard for mattresses) when used without a foundation”; or
(ii) For mattresses intended to be sold with a foundation, a certification stating “This mattress meets the requirements of 16 CFR part 1633 (federal flammability (open flame) standard for mattresses) when used with foundation
ID
.” Such foundation(s) shall be clearly identified by a simple and distinct name and/or number on the mattress label; or
(iii) For mattresses intended to be sold both alone and with a foundation, a certification stating “This mattress meets the requirements of 16 CFR part 1633 (federal flammability (open flame) standard for mattresses) when used without a foundation or with foundation(s)
ID
.”.Such foundation(s) shall be clearly identified by a simple and distinct name and/or number on the mattress label; and
(7) A statement identifying whether the manufacturer intends the mattress to be sold alone or with a foundation.
(i) For mattresses intended to be sold without a foundation, the label shall state “THIS MATTRESS IS INTENDED TO BE USED WITHOUT A FOUNDATION.” See Figures 16 and 17 of this part; or
(ii) For mattresses intended to be sold with a foundation, the label shall state “THIS MATTRESS IS INTENDED TO BE USED WITH FOUNDATION(S):
Foundation ID
.” See Figures 12 and 13 of this part; or
(iii) For mattresses intended to be sold both alone and with a foundation, the label shall state “THIS MATTRESS IS INTENDED TO BE USED WITHOUT A FOUNDATION OR WITH FOUNDATION(S):
Foundation ID
.” See Figures 14 and 15 of this part.
(b) The mattress label required in paragraph (a) of this section must measure 2
3/4
″ in width and the length can increase as needed for varying information. The label must be white with black text. The label text shall comply with the following format requirements:
(1) All information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section must be in 6-point font or larger with mixed uppercase and lowercase letters. The text must be left justified and begin
1/4
″ from left edge of label. See Figure 12-17 of this part.
(2) The statement specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section must be in 10-point Arial/Helvetica font or larger, uppercase letters with the words “
WITHOUT
A FOUNDATION” bolded and the word “
WITHOUT
” in italics. The text shall be centered in a text box with the width measuring 2
1/2
″ and the length increasing as needed. See Figures 16 and 17 of this part.
(3) The statement specified in paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of this section must be in 10-point Arial/Helvetica font or larger in uppercase letters. The foundation identifier should be in 12-point font or larger, bolded, and underlined. The text shall be centered in a text box with the width measuring 2
1/2
″ and the length increasing as needed. See Figures 12 and 13 of this part.
(4) The statement specified in paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this section must be in 10-point or larger Arial/Helvetica font, uppercase letters with the words “
WITHOUT
A FOUNDATION OR” bolded and the word “
WITHOUT
” in italics. The foundation identifier should be in 12-point font or larger, bolded, and underlined. The text shall be centered in a text box with the width measuring 2
1/2
″ and the length increasing as needed. See Figures 14 and 15 of this part.
(c) The foundation label required in paragraph (a) of this section must measure 2
3/4
″ in width and the length can increase as needed for varying information. The label must be white with black text. The label shall contain the following:
(1) The information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section; and
(2) The words “Foundation ID:” followed by a distinct name and/or number that corresponds to the name and/or number used on the mattress. This text must be in 10-point or larger bold Arial/Helvetica font, and the foundation identifier must be underlined. See Figures 12 through 15 of this part.
(d) The statements specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iii) and (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section may be translated into any other language and printed on the reverse (blank) side of the label.
(e) No person, other than the ultimate consumer, shall remove or mutilate, or cause or participate in the removal or mutilation of, any label required by this section to be affixed to any item.
[71 FR 13498, Mar. 15, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 6843, Feb. 6, 2008]
§ 1633.13
Tests for guaranty purposes, compliance with this section, and “one of a kind” exemption.
(a)
Tests for guaranty purposes.
Reasonable and representative tests for the purpose of issuing a guaranty under section 8 of the Flammable Fabrics Act, 15 U.S.C. 1197, for mattress sets subject to the Standard shall be the tests performed to show compliance with the Standard.
(b)
Compliance with this section.
No person subject to the Flammable Fabrics Act shall manufacture for sale, import, distribute, or otherwise market
or handle any mattress set which is not in compliance with the provisions under Subpart B.
(c)
“One of a kind” exemption for physician prescribed mattresses.
(1)(i) A mattress set manufactured in accordance with a physician's written prescription or manufactured in accordance with other comparable written medical therapeutic specification, to be used in connection with the treatment or management of a named individual's physical illness or injury, shall be considered a “one of a kind mattress” and shall be exempt from testing under the Standard pursuant to § 1633.7 thereof: Provided, that the mattress set bears a permanent, conspicuous and legible label which states:
WARNING: This mattress set may be subject to a large fire if exposed to an open flame. It was manufactured in accordance with a physician's prescription and has not been tested under the Federal Standard for the Flammability (Open-Flame) of Mattress Sets (16 CFR part 1633).
(ii) Such labeling must be attached to the mattress set so as to remain on or affixed thereto for the useful life of the mattress set. The label must be at least 40 square inches (250 sq. cm) with no linear dimension less than 5 inches (12.5 cm). The letters in the word “WARNING” shall be no less than 0.5 inch (1.27 cm) in height and all letters on the label shall be in a color which contrasts with the background of the label. The warning statement which appears on the label must also be conspicuously displayed on the invoice or other sales papers that accompany the mattress set in commerce from the manufacturer to the final point of sale to a consumer.
(2) The manufacturer of a mattress set exempted from testing under this paragraph (c) shall, in lieu of the records required to be kept by § 1633.10, retain a copy of the written prescription or other comparable written medical therapeutic specification for such mattress set during a period of three years, measured from the date of manufacture.
(3) For purposes of this regulation the term physician shall mean a physician, chiropractor or osteopath licensed or otherwise permitted to practice by any State of the United States.
Pt. 1633, Fig. 1

# Figure 1 to Part 1633—Test Assembly, Shown in Furniture Calorimeter (Configuration A)
ER15MR06.000
Pt. 1633, Fig. 2

# Figure 2 to Part 1633—Test Arrangement in 3.05m × 3.66m (10 ft × 12 ft) Room (Configuration B)
ER15MR06.001
Pt. 1633, Fig. 3

# Figure 3 to Part 1633—Details of Horizontal Burner Head
ER15MR06.002
Pt. 1633, Fig. 4

# Figure 4 to Part 1633—Details of Vertical Burner Head
ER15MR06.003
Pt. 1633, Fig. 5

# Figure 5 to Part 1633—Details of Burner Stand-off
ER15MR06.004
Pt. 1633, Fig. 6

# Figure 6 to Part 1633—Burner Assembly Showing Arms and Pivots (Shoulder Screws), in Relation to, Portable Frame Allowing Burner Height Adjustment
ER15MR06.005
Pt. 1633, Fig. 7

# Figure 7 to Part 1633—Elements of Propane Flow Control for Each Burner
ER15MR06.006
Pt. 1633, Fig. 8

# Figure 8 to Part 1633—Jig for Setting Mattresses and Foundation Sides in Same Plane
ER15MR06.007
Pt. 1633, Fig. 9

# Figure 9 to Part 1633—Burner Placements on Mattress/Foundation
ER15MR06.008
Pt. 1633, Fig. 10

# Figure 10 to Part 1633—Jig for Setting Burners at Proper Distances From Mattress/Foundation
ER15MR06.009
Pt. 1633, Fig. 11

# Figure 11 to Part 1633—Diagrams for Glossary of Terms
ER15MR06.010
Pt. 1633, Fig. 12

# Figure 12 to Part 1633—Labels for Domestic Mattress With Foundation
ER15MR06.011
Pt. 1633, Fig. 13

# Figure 13 to Part 1633—Labels for Imported Mattress With Foundation
ER15MR06.012
Pt. 1633, Figs. 14, 15

# Figures 14 and 15 to Part 1633—Label for Domestic Mattress Alone and with Foundation and Label for Imported Mattress Alone and With Foundation
ER15MR06.013
Pt. 1633, Figs. 16, 17

# Figures 16 and 17 to Part 1633—Label for Domestic Mattress Only and Label for Imported Mattress Only
ER15MR06.014
Pt. 1640

# PART 1640—STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE
Sec.
1640.1
Purpose and scope.
1640.2
Effective date and compliance date.
1640.3
Definitions.
1640.4
Certification and labeling.
1640.5
Requirements.
1640.6
Incorporation by reference.

# Authority:
Sec. 2101, Pub. L. 116-260, 15 U.S.C. 1193.

# Source:
86 FR 18443, Apr. 9, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1640.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This part establishes the standard for the flammability of upholstered furniture, as set forth by the Bureau of Electronic and Appliance Repair, Home Furnishings and Thermal Insulation of the Department of Consumer Affairs of the State of California in Technical Bulletin 117-2013, entitled “Requirements, Test Procedure and Apparatus for Testing the Smolder Resistance of Materials Used in Upholstered Furniture,” published June 2013 (for availability, see § 1640.6).
(b)
Scope.
All upholstered furniture as defined in § 1640.3 manufactured, imported, or reupholstered on or after the effective date of this standard is subject to the requirements of this part.
§ 1640.2
Effective date and compliance date.
(a)
Effective date.
This part (the standard) is effective June 25, 2021, and shall apply to all upholstered furniture, as defined in § 1640.3, manufactured, imported, or reupholstered on or after that date.
(b)
Compliance date.
Compliance with the labeling requirement in § 1640.4 shall be required by June 25, 2022, and shall apply to all upholstered furniture, as defined in § 1640.3, manufactured, imported, or reupholstered on or after that date.
§ 1640.3
Definitions.
(a)
Bedding product
means
(1) An item that is used for sleeping or sleep-related purposes; or
(2) Any component or accessory with respect to an item described in this paragraph (a), without regard to whether the component or accessory, as applicable, is used—
(i) Alone; or
(ii) Along with, or contained within, that item;
(b)
California standard
means the standard set forth by the Bureau of Electronic and Appliance Repair, Home Furnishings and Thermal Insulation of the Department of Consumer Affairs of the State of California in Technical Bulletin 117- 2013, entitled “Requirements, Test Procedure and Apparatus for Testing the Smolder Resistance of Materials Used in Upholstered Furniture”, published June 2013 (see § 1640.6).
(c)
Foundation
has the meaning given that term in § 1633.2 of this chapter.
(d)
Mattress
has the meaning given that term in § 1633.2 of this chapter.
(e)
Upholstered furniture.
(1) Means an article of seating furniture that—
(i) Is intended for indoor use;
(ii) Is movable or stationary;
(iii) Is constructed with an upholstered seat, back, or arm;
(iv) Is:
(A) Made or sold with a cushion or pillow, without regard to whether that cushion or pillow, as applicable, is attached or detached with respect to the article of furniture, or
(B) Stuffed or filled, or able to be stuffed or filled, in whole or in part, with any material, including a substance or material that is hidden or concealed by fabric or another covering, including a cushion or pillow belonging to, or forming a part of, the article of furniture; and
(v) Together with the structural units of the article of furniture, any filling material, and the container and covering with respect to those structural units and that filling material, can be used as a support for the body of an individual, or the limbs and feet of an individual, when the individual sits in an upright or reclining position;
(2) Includes an article of furniture that is intended for use by a child; and
(3) Does not include—
(i) A mattress;
(ii) A foundation;
(iii) Any bedding product; or
(iv) Furniture that is used exclusively for the purpose of physical fitness and exercise.
§ 1640.4
Certification and labeling.
(a)
Testing and certification.
A fabric, related material, or product to which the California standard applies shall not be subject to section 14(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2063(a)) with respect to that standard.
(b)
Certification label.
Each manufacturer of a product that is subject to the California standard shall include the statement “Complies with U.S. CPSC requirements for upholstered furniture flammability” on a permanent label located on the product, which shall be considered to be a certification that the product complies with that standard.
§ 1640.5
Requirements.
(a)
In general.
All upholstered furniture must comply with the requirements in the California standard, Technical Bulletin (TB) 117-2013, “Requirements, Test Procedure and Apparatus for Testing the Smolder Resistance of Materials Used in Upholstered Furniture,” June 2013 (incorporated by reference § 1640.6).
(b)
Preemption.
Notwithstanding section 16 of the Flammable Fabrics Act (15 U.S.C. 1203) and section 231 of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (15 U.S.C. 2051 note), and except as provided in sections 1374, 1374.2, and 1374.3 of 4 California Code of Regulations (CCR) (except for subsections (b) and (c) of section 1374 of that title) (incorporated by reference § 1640.6) or the California standard, no State or any political subdivision of a State may establish or continue in effect any provision of a flammability law, regulation, code, standard, or requirement that is designed to protect against the risk of occurrence of fire, or to slow or prevent the spread of fire, with respect to upholstered furniture.
(c)
Preservation of certain State law.
Nothing in Public Law 116-260 or the Flammable Fabrics Act (15 U.S.C. 1191
et seq.
) and section 231 of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (15 U.S.C. 2051 note), may be construed to preempt or otherwise affect:
(1) Any State or local law, regulation, code, standard, or requirement that—
(i) Concerns health risks associated with upholstered furniture; and
(ii) Is not designed to protect against the risk of occurrence of fire, or to slow or prevent the spread of fire, with respect to upholstered furniture;
(2) Sections 1374, 1374.2, and 1374.3 of 4 CCR (except for subsections (b) and (c) of section 1374 of that title), as in effect on the date of enactment of Public Law 116-260; or
(3) The California standard.
§ 1640.6
Incorporation by reference.
Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, and is available from the other sources listed in this section. To schedule an appointment, contact CPSC's Division of the Secretariat: telephone (301) 504-7479 or email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
The material is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
(a) State of California, Department of Consumer Affairs, 4244 South Market Court, Suite D, Sacramento, CA 95834; email
DCA@dca.ca.gov;
phone (800) 952-5210; or visit
https://bhgs.dca.ca.gov/about_us/tb117_2013.pdf.
(1)
California standard.
Technical Bulletin (TB) 117-2013, “Requirements, Test Procedure and Apparatus for Testing the Smolder Resistance of Materials Used in Upholstered Furniture,” June 2013; IBR approved for § 1640.5.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) State of California, Office of Administrative Law (OAL), 300 Capitol Mall, Suite 1250, Sacramento, CA 95814-4339, phone 916-323-6815, email
staff@oal.ca.gov;
or visit
https://oal.ca.gov/publications/ccr/;
or purchase a hard-copy version (full code or individual titles) from Barclay, publisher of the Official CCR, at 1-800-888-3600.
(1) California Code of Regulations (CCR), Title 4, Sections 1374, 1374.2, and
1374.3, in effect as of February 26, 2021 Register 2021, No. 9; IBR approved for § 1640.5.
(2) [Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER E—POISON PREVENTION PACKAGING ACT OF 1970 REGULATIONS
Pt. 1700

# PART 1700—POISON PREVENTION PACKAGING
Sec.
1700.1
Definitions.
1700.2
Authority.
1700.3
Establishment of standards for special packaging.
1700.4
Effective date of standards.
1700.5
Noncomplying package requirements.
1700.14
Substances requiring special packaging.
1700.15
Poison prevention packaging standards.
1700.20
Testing procedure for special packaging.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1471-76. Secs. 1700.1 and 1700.14 also issued under 15 U.S.C. 2079(a).

# Source:
38 FR 21247, Aug. 7, 1973, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1700.1
Definitions.
(a) As used in this part:
(1)
Act
means the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-601, 84 Stat. 1670-74; 15 U.S.C. 1471-75), enacted December 30, 1970.
(2)
Commission
means the Consumer Product Safety Commission established by section 4 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (86 Stat. 1210; 15 U.S.C. 2053).
(3)
Dietary supplement
means any vitamin and/or mineral preparation offered in tablet, capsule, wafer, or other similar uniform unit form; in powder, granule, flake, or liquid form; or in the physical form of a conventional food but which is not a conventional food; and which purports or is represented to be for special dietary use by humans to supplement their diets by increasing the total dietary intake of one or more of the essential vitamins and/or minerals.
(b) Except for the definition of “Secretary,” which is obsolete, the definitions given in section 2 of the act are applicable to this part and are repeated herein for convenience as follows:
(1) [Reserved]
(2)
Household substance
means any substance which is customarily produced or distributed for sale for consumption or use, or customarily stored, by individuals in or about the household and which is:
(i) A hazardous substance as that term is defined in section 2(f) of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (15 U.S.C. 1261(f));
(ii) A food, drug, or cosmetic as those terms are defined in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321); or
(iii) A substance intended for use as fuel when stored in a portable container and used in the heating, cooking, or refrigeration system of a house.
(3)
Package
means the immediate container or wrapping in which any household substance is contained for consumption, use, or storage by individuals in or about the household and, for purposes of section 4(a)(2) of the act, also means any outer container or wrapping used in the retail display of any such substance to consumers. “Package” does not include:
(i) Any shipping container or wrapping used solely for the transportation of any household substance in bulk or in quantity to manufacturers, packers, or processors, or to wholesale or retail distributors thereof; or
(ii) Any shipping container or outer wrapping used by retailers to ship or deliver any household substance to consumers unless it is the only such container or wrapping.
(4)
Special packaging
means packaging that is designed or constructed to be significantly difficult for children under 5 years of age to open or obtain a toxic or harmful amount of the substance contained therein within a reasonable time and not difficult for normal adults to use properly, but does not mean packaging which all such children cannot open or obtain a toxic or harmful amount within a reasonable time.
(5)
Labeling
means all labels and other written, printed, or graphic matter upon any household substance or
its package, or accompanying such substance.
(Pub. L. 92-573, sec. 30(a), 86 Stat. 1231; (15 U.S.C. 2079(a)))
[38 FR 21247, Aug. 7, 1973, as amended at 41 FR 22266, June 2, 1976; 48 FR 57480, Dec. 30, 1983]
§ 1700.2
Authority.
Authority under the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970 is vested in the Consumer Product Safety Commission by section 30(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2079(a)).
§ 1700.3
Establishment of standards for special packaging.
(a) Pursuant to section 3 of the act, the Commission, after consultation with the technical advisory committee provided for by section 6 of the act, may establish by regulation standards for the special packaging of any household substance if the Commission finds:
(1) That the degree or nature of the hazard to children in the availability of such substance, by reason of its packaging, is such that special packaging is required to protect children from serious personal injury or serious illness resulting from handling, using, or ingesting such substance; and
(2) That the special packaging to be required by such standard is technically feasible, practicable, and appropriate for such substance.
(b) In establishing such a standard, the Commission shall consider:
(1) The reasonableness of such standard;
(2) Available scientific, medical, and engineering data concerning special packaging and concerning childhood accidental ingestions, illness, and injury caused by household substances;
(3) The manufacturing practices of industries affected by the act; and
(4) The nature and use of the household substance.
(c) In the process of establishing such a standard, the Commission shall publish its findings and reasons therefor and shall cite the sections of the act that authorize its action.
(d) In establishing such standards, the Commission shall not prescribe specific packaging designs, product content, package quantity, or labeling except for labeling under section 4(a)(2) of the act. Regarding a household substance for which special packaging is required by regulation, the Commission can prohibit the packaging of such substance in a package which the Commission determines is unnecessarily attractive to children.
(e) Promulgations pursuant to section 3 of the act shall be in accordance with section 5 of the act as to procedure.
§ 1700.4
Effective date of standards.
(a) The FR document promulgating a regulation establishing a child protection packaging standard shall indicate the standard's effective date. Section 9 of the act specifies that the effective date shall not be sooner than 180 days or later than 1 year from the date the standard is promulgated in the
Federal Register
unless the Commission, for good cause found, determines that an earlier effective date is in the public interest and publishes in the
Federal Register
the reason for such finding, in which case such earlier effective date shall apply.
(b) Upon becoming effective, a child protection packaging standard shall apply only to household substances packaged on and after its effective date.
§ 1700.5
Noncomplying package requirements.
To make household substances that are subject to requirements for special packaging readily available to elderly or handicapped persons who are unable to use those substances in special packaging, section 4(a) of the act authorizes manufacturers and packers to package such substances in noncomplying packaging of a single size provided that complying packaging is also supplied and the noncomplying packages are conspicuously labeled to indicate that they should not be used in households where young children are present. The purpose of this § 1700.5 is to implement section 4(a) of the act by prescribing requirements for the labeling of noncomplying packages.
(a)
Labeling statement.
(1) The statement “This Package for Households Without Young Children” shall appear conspicuously, and in accordance with all of the requirements of paragraph (a)
of this section, on the package of any household substance subject to the special packaging requirements of this part 1700 that is supplied in noncomplying packaging under section 4(a) of the act, unless the package bears the substitute labeling statement in accordance with all of the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) The statement required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall appear on the principal display panel of the immediate container as well as on the principal display panel of any outer container or wrapping used in the retail display of the substance. If a package bears more than one principal display panel, the required statement shall appear on each principal display panel of the immediate container as well as on each principal display panel of any outer container or wrapping used in the retail display of the substance. The principal display panel is the part of the labeling most likely to be displayed, presented, shown, or examined.
(3) The required labeling statement shall appear within the borderline of a square or rectangle on the principal display panel in conspicuous and easily legible capital letters, shall be in distinct contrast, by typography, layout, color, or embossing, to other matter on the package, and shall appear in lines generally parallel to the base on which the package rests as it is designed to be displayed.
(4) The declaration shall be in letters in type size established in relationship to the area of the principal display panel of the package and shall be uniform for all packages of substantially the same size by complying with the following type-size specifications:
(i) Not less than
1/16
inch in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of 7 square inches or less.
(ii) Not less than
3/32
inch in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 7 but not more than 15 square inches.
(iii) Not less than
1/8
inch in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 15 but not more than 25 square inches.
(iv) Not less than
3/16
inch in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 25 but not more than 100 square inches.
(v) Not less than
1/4
inch in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 100 square inches.
(5)(i) For the purpose of obtaining uniform type size for the required statement for all packages of substantially the same size, the area of the principal display panel is the area of the side or surface that bears the principal display panel, which shall be:
(A) In the case of a rectangular package where one entire side properly can be considered to be the principal display panel, the product of the height times the width of that side.
(B) In the case of a cylindrical or nearly cylindrical container, 40 percent of the product of the height of the container times the circumference.
(C) In the case of any other shape of container, 40 percent of the total surface of the container; however, if such container presents an obvious principal display (such as the top of a triangular or circular package), the area shall consist of the entire area of such obvious principal display panel.
(ii) In determining the area of the principal display panel exclude tops, bottoms, flanges at the tops and bottoms of cans, and shoulders and necks of bottles or jars. In the case of cylindrical or nearly cylindrical containers, the labeling statement required by this section to appear on the principal display panel shall appear within that 40 percent of the circumference most likely to be displayed, presented, shown, or examined.
(b)
Substitute labeling statement.
If the area of the principal display panel, as determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(5) of this section, is too small to accommodate the statement required by paragraph (a)(1) using the type size required by paragraph (a)(4), the substitute statement “Package Not Child-Resistant” may be used. This substitute statement must comply with all of the requirements for size, placement, and conspicuousness prescribed by paragraph (a) of this section.
[40 FR 4650, Jan. 31, 1975]
§ 1700.14
Substances requiring special packaging.
(a)
Substances.
The Commission has determined that the degree or nature of the hazard to children in the availability of the following substances, by reason of their packaging, is such that special packaging meeting the requirements of § 1700.20(a) is required to protect children from serious personal injury or serious illness resulting from handling, using, or ingesting such substances, and the special packaging herein required is technically feasible, practicable, and appropriate for these substances:
(1)
Aspirin.
Any aspirin-containing preparation for human use in a dosage form intended for oral administration shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (c), except the following:
(i) Effervescent tablets containing aspirin, other than those intended for pediatric use, provided the dry tablet contains not more than 15 percent aspirin and has an oral LD-50 in rats of 5 grams or more per kilogram of body weight.
(ii) Unflavored aspirin-containing preparations in powder form (other than those intended for pediatric use) that are packaged in unit doses providing not more than 15.4 grains of aspirin per unit dose and that contain no other substance subject to the provisions of this section.
(2)
Furniture polish.
Nonemulsion type liquid furniture polishes containing 10 percent or more of mineral seal oil and/or other petroleum distillates and having a viscosity of less than 100 Saybolt universal seconds at 100 °F., other than those packaged in pressurized spray containers, shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (d).
(3)
Methyl salicylate.
Liquid preparations containing more than 5 percent by weight of methyl salicylate, other than those packaged in pressurized spray containers, shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (c).
(4)
Controlled drugs.
Any preparation for human use that consists in whole or in part of any substance subject to control under the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 (21 U.S.C. 801
et seq.
) and that is in a dosage form intended for oral administration shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (c).
(5)
Sodium and/or potassium hydroxide.
Household substances in dry forms such as granules, powder, and flakes, containing 10 percent or more by weight of free or chemically unneutralized sodium and/or potassium hydroxide, and all other household substances containing 2 percent or more by weight of free or chemically unneutralized sodium and/or potassium hydroxide, shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a) and (b).
(6)
Turpentine.
Household substances in liquid form containing 10 percent or more by weight of turpentine shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a) and (b).
(7)
Kindling and/or illuminating preparations.
Prepackaged liquid kindling and/or illuminating preparations, such as cigarette lighter fuel, charcoal lighter fuel, camping equipment fuel, torch fuel, and fuel for decorative or functional lanterns, which contain 10 percent or more by weight of petroleum distillates and have a viscosity of less than 100 Saybolt universal seconds at 100 °F., shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a) and (b).
(8)
Methyl alcohol
(
methanol
). Household substances in liquid form containing 4 percent or more by weight of methyl alcohol (methanol), other than those packaged in pressurized spray containers, shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a) and (b).
(9)
Sulfuric acid.
Household substances containing 10 percent or more by weight of sulfuric acid, except such substances in wet-cell storage batteries, shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a) and (b).
(10)
Prescription drugs.
Any drug for human use that is in a dosage form intended for oral administration and that is required by Federal law to be dispensed only by or upon an oral or written prescription of a practitioner licensed by law to administer such drug shall be packaged in accordance with
the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (c), except for the following:
(i) Sublingual dosage forms of nitroglycerin.
(ii) Sublingual and chewable forms of isosorbide dinitrate in dosage strengths of 10 milligrams or less.
(iii) Erythromycin ethylsuccinate granules for oral suspension and oral suspensions in packages containing not more than 8 grams of the equivalent of erythromycin.
(iv) Cyclically administered oral contraceptives in manufacturers' mnemonic (memory-aid) dispenser packages that rely solely upon the activity of one or more progestogen or estrogen substances.
(v) Anhydrous cholestyramine in powder form.
(vi) All unit dose forms of potassium supplements, including individually-wrapped effervescent tablets, unit dose vials of liquid potassium, and powdered potassium in unit-dose packets, containing not more than 50 milliequivalents of potassium per unit dose.
(vii) Sodium fluoride drug preparations including liquid and tablet forms, containing not more than 110 milligrams of sodium fluoride (the equivalent of 50 mg of elemental fluoride) per package or not more than a concentration of 0.5 percent elemental fluoride on a weight-to-volume basis for liquids or a weight-to-weight basis for non-liquids and containing no other substances subject to this § 1700.14(a)(10).
(viii) Betamethasone tablets packaged in manufacturers' dispenser packages, containing no more than 12.6 milligrams betamethasone.
(ix) Pancrelipase preparations in tablet, capsule, or powder form and containing no other substances subject to this § 1700.14(a)(10).
(x) Prednisone in tablet form, when dispensed in packages containing no more than 105 mg. of the drug, and containing no other substances subject to this § 1700.14(a)(10).
(xi)-(xii) [Reserved]
(xiii) Mebendazole in tablet form in packages containing not more than 600 mg. of the drug, and containing no other substance subject to the provisions of this section.
(xiv) Methylprednisolone in tablet form in packages containing not more than 84 mg of the drug and containing no other substance subject to the provisions of this section.
(xv) Colestipol in powder form in packages containing not more than 5 grams of the drug and containing no other substance subject to the provisions of this section.
(xvi) Erythromycin ethylsuccinate tablets in packages containing no more than the equivalent of 16 grams erythromycin.
(xvii) Conjugated Estrogens Tablets, U.S.P., when dispensed in mnemonic packages containing not more than 32.0 mg of the drug and containing no other substances subject to this § 1700.14(a)(10).
(xviii) Norethindrone Acetate Tablets, U.S.P., when dispensed in mnemonic packages containing not more than 50 mg of the drug and containing no other substances subject to this § 1700.14(a)(10).
(xix) Medroxyprogesterone acetate tablets.
(xx) Sacrosidase (sucrase) preparations in a solution of glycerol and water.
(xxi) Hormone Replacement Therapy Products that rely solely upon the activity of one or more progestogen or estrogen substances.
(xxii) Colesevelam hydrochloride in powder form in packages containing not more than 3.75 grams of the drug.
(xxiii) Sevelamer carbonate in powder form in packages containing not more than 2.4 grams of the drug.
(xxiv) Baloxavir marboxil tablets in packages containing not more than 80 mg of the drug.
(11)
Ethylene glycol.
Household substances in liquid form containing 10 percent or more by weight of ethylene glycol packaged on or after June 1, 1974, except those articles exempted by 16 CFR 1500.83, shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a) and (b).
(12)
Iron-containing drugs.
With the exception of: (i) Animal feeds used as vehicles for the administration of drugs, and (ii) those preparations in which iron is present solely as a colorant, noninjectable animal and human drugs providing iron for therapeutic or prophylactic purposes, and containing a total amount of elemental
iron, from any source, in a single package, equivalent to 250 mg or more elemental iron in a concentration of 0.025 percent or more on a weight to volume basis for liquids and 0.025 percent or more on a weight to volume basis for liquids and 0.05 percent or more on a weight-to-weight basis for nonliquids (e.g., powders, granules, tablets, capsules, wafers, gels, viscous products, such as pastes and ointments, etc.) shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (c).
(13)
Dietary supplements containing iron.
Dietary supplements, as defined in § 1700.1(a)(3), that contain an equivalent of 250 mg or more of elemental iron, from any source, in a single package in concentrations of 0.025 percent or more on a weight-to-volume basis for liquids and 0.05 percent or more on a weight-to-weight basis for nonliquids (e.g., powders, granules, tablets, capsules, wafers, gels, viscous products, such as pastes and ointments, etc.) shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (c), except for the following:
(i) Preparations in which iron is present solely as a colorant; and
(ii) Powdered preparations with no more than the equivalent of 0.12 percent weight-to-weight elemental iron.
(14) [Reserved]
(15)
Solvents for paint or other similar surface-coating material.
Prepackaged liquid solvents (such as removers, thinners, brush cleaners, etc.) for paints or other similar surface-coating materials (such as varnishes and lacquers), that contain 10 percent or more by weight of benzene (also known as benzol), toluene (also known as toluol), xylene (also known as xylol), petroleum distillates (such as gasoline, kerosene, mineral seal oil, mineral spirits, naphtha, and Stoddard solvent, etc.), or combinations thereof, and that have a viscosity of less than 100 Saybolt universal seconds at 100 °F., shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a) and (b).
(16)
Acetaminophen.
Preparations for human use in a dosage form intended for oral administration and containing in a single package a total of more than one gram acetaminophen shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (c), except the following—
(i) Effervescent tablets or granules containing acetaminophen, provided the dry tablet or granules contain less than 15 percent acetaminophen, the tablet or granules have an oral LD-50 of 5 grams or greater per kilogram of body weight, and the tablet or granules contain no other substance subject to the provisions of this section.
(ii) Unflavored acetaminophen-containing preparations in powder form (other than those intended for pediatric use) that are packaged in unit doses providing not more than 13 grains of acetaminophen per unit dose and that contain no other substance subject to this § 1700.14(a).
(17)
Diphenhydramine.
Preparations for human use in a dosage form intended for oral administration and containing more than the equivalent of 66 mg diphenhydramine base in a single package shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (c), if packaged on or after February 11, 1985.
(18)
Glue removers containing acetonitrile.
Household glue removers in a liquid form containing more than 500 mg of acetonitrile in a single container.
(19)
Permanent wave neutralizers containing sodium bromate or potassium bromate.
Home permanent wave neutralizers, in a liquid form, containing in single container more than 600 mg of sodium bromate or more than 50 mg of potassium bromate.
(20)
Ibuprofen.
Ibuprofen preparations for human use in a dosage form intended for oral administration and containing one gram (1,000 mg) or more of ibuprofen in a single package shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (c).
(21)
Loperamide.
Preparations for human use in a dosage form intended for oral administration and containing more than 0.045 mg of loperamide in a single package (i.e., retail unit) shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (c).
(22)
Mouthwash.
Except as provided in the following sentence, mouthwash preparations for human use and containing 3 g or more of ethanol in a single package shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15
(a), (b), and (c). Mouthwash products with nonremovable pump dispensers that contain at least 7% on a weight-to-weight basis of mint or cinnamon flavoring oils, that dispense no more than 0.03 grams of absolute ethanol per pump actuation, and that contain less than 15 grams of ethanol in a single unit are exempt from this requirement. The term “mouthwash” includes liquid products that are variously called mouthwashes, mouthrinses, oral antiseptics, gargles, fluoride rinses, anti-plaque rinses, and breath fresheners. It does not include throat sprays or aerosol breath fresheners.
(23)
Lidocaine.
Products containing more than 5.0 mg of lidocaine in a single package (i.e., retail unit) shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a) and (b).
(24)
Dibucaine.
Products containing more than 0.5 mg of dibucaine in a single package (i.e., retail unit) shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a) and (b).
(25)
Naproxen.
Naproxen preparations for human use and containing the equivalent of 250 mg or more of naproxen in a single retail package shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (c).
(26)
Ketoprofen.
Ketoprofen preparations for human use and containing more than 50 mg of ketoprofen in a single retail package shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b) and (c).
(27)
Fluoride.
Household substances containing more than the equivalent of 50 milligrams of elemental fluoride per package and more than the equivalent of 0.5 percent elemental fluoride on a weight-to-volume basis for liquids or a weight-to-weight basis for non-liquids shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15(a), (b) and (c).
(28)
Minoxidil.
Minoxidil preparations for human use and containing more than 14 mg of minoxidil in a single retail package shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15(a), (b) and (c). Any applicator packaged with the minoxidil preparation and which it is reasonable to expect may be used to replace the original closure shall also comply with the provisions of § 1700.15(a), (b) and (c).
(29)
Methacrylic acid.
Except as provided in the following sentence, liquid household products containing more than 5 percent methacrylic acid (weight-to-volume) in a single retail package shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15(a),(b) and (c). Methacrylic acid products applied by an absorbent material contained inside a dispenser (such as a pen-like marker) are exempt from this requirement provided that: (i) the methacrylic acid is contained by the absorbent material so that no free liquid is within the device, and (ii) under any reasonably foreseeable conditions of use the methacrylic acid will emerge only through the tip of the device.
(30)
Over-the-Counter Drug Products.
(i) Any over-the-counter (OTC) drug product in a dosage form intended for oral administration that contains any active ingredient that was previously available for oral administration only by prescription, and thus was required by paragraph (a)(10) of this section to be in special packaging, shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15(a),(b), and (c). This requirement applies whether or not the amount of that active ingredient in the OTC drug product is different from the amount of that active ingredient in the prescription drug product. This requirement does not apply if the OTC drug product contains only active ingredients of any oral drug product or products approved for OTC marketing based on an application for OTC marketing submitted to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) by any entity before January 29, 2002. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any special packaging requirement under this § 1700.14 otherwise applicable to an OTC drug product remains in effect.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (30),
active ingredient
means any component that is intended to furnish pharmacological activity or other direct effect in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease or to affect the structure or any function of the body of humans; and
drug product
means a finished dosage form, for example, tablet, capsule, or solution, that contains a drug substance (active ingredient), generally, but not necessarily, in association with one or
more other ingredients. (These terms are intended to have the meanings assigned to them in the regulations of the Food and Drug Administration appearing at 21 CFR 201.66 (2001) and 21 CFR 314.3 (2000), respectively.)
(31)
Hazardous substances containing low-viscosity hydrocarbons.
All prepackaged nonemulsion-type liquid household chemical products that are hazardous substances as defined in the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (FHSA) (15 U.S.C. 1261(f)), and that contain 10 percent or more hydrocarbons by weight and have a viscosity of less than 100 SUS at 100 °F, shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15(a), (b), and (c), except for the following:
(i) Products in packages in which the only non-child-resistant access to the contents is by a spray device (
e.g.,
aerosols, or pump-or trigger-actuated sprays where the pump or trigger mechanism has either a child-resistant or permanent attachment to the package).
(ii) Writing markers and ballpoint pens exempted from labeling requirements under the FHSA by 16 CFR 1500.83.
(iii) Products from which the liquid cannot flow freely, including but not limited to paint markers and battery terminal cleaners. For purposes of this requirement, hydrocarbons are defined as substances that consist solely of carbon and hydrogen. For products that contain multiple hydrocarbons, the total percentage of hydrocarbons in the product is the sum of the percentages by weight of the individual hydrocarbon components.
(32)
Drugs and cosmetics containing low-viscosity hydrocarbons.
All prepackaged nonemulsion-type liquid household chemical products that are drugs or cosmetics as defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act (FDCA) (21 U.S.C. 321(a)), and that contain 10 percent or more hydrocarbons by weight and have a viscosity of less than 100 SUS at 100 °F, shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15(a), (b), and (c), except for the following:
(i) Products in packages in which the only non-child-resistant access to the contents is by a spray device (
e.g.,
aerosols, or pump-or trigger-actuated sprays where the pump or trigger mechanism has either a child-resistant or permanent attachment to the package).
(ii) Products from which the liquid cannot flow freely, including but not limited to makeup removal pads. For the purposes of this requirement, hydrocarbons are defined as substances that consist solely of carbon and hydrogen. For products that contain multiple hydrocarbons, the total percentage of hydrocarbons in the product is the sum of the percentages by weight of the individual hydrocarbon components.
(33)
Imidazolines.
Any over-the-counter or prescription product containing the equivalent of 0.08 milligrams or more of an imidazoline (tetrahydrozoline, naphazoline, oxymetazoline, or xylometazoline) in a single package, must be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15(a), (b), and (c).
(b)
Sample packages.
(1) The manufacturer or packer of any of the substances listed under paragraph (a) of this section as substances requiring special packaging shall provide the Commission with a sample of each type of special packaging, as well as the labeling for each size product that will be packaged in special packaging and the labeling for any noncomplying package. Sample packages and labeling should be sent to the Consumer Product Safety Commission, Office of Compliance, 4330 East West Highway, Washington, DC 20207.
(2) Sample packages should be submitted without contents when such contents are unnecessary for demonstrating the effectiveness of the packaging.
(3) Any sample packages containing drugs listed under paragraph (a) of this section shall be sent by registered mail.
(4) As used in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the term
manufacturer or packer
does not include pharmacists and other individuals who dispense, at the retail or user level, drugs listed under paragraph (a) of this section as requiring special packaging.
(c)
Applicability.
Special packaging standards for drugs listed under paragraph (a) of this section shall be in addition to any packaging requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or regulations promulgated thereunder or of any official compendia recognized by that act.
(Pub. L. 91-601, secs. 2(4), 3, 5, 85 Stat. 1670-72; 15 U.S.C. 1471(4), 1472, 1474; Pub. L. 92-573, 86 Stat. 1231; 15 U.S.C. 2079(a))
[38 FR 21247, Aug. 7, 1973]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 1700.14, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 1700.15
Poison prevention packaging standards.
To protect children from serious personal injury or serious illness resulting from handling, using, or ingesting household substances, the Commission has determined that packaging designed and constructed to meet the following standards shall be regarded as “special packaging” within the meaning of section 2(4) of the act. Specific application of these standards to substances requiring special packaging is in accordance with § 1700.14.
(a)
General requirements.
The special packaging must continue to function with the effectiveness specifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this section when in actual contact with the substance contained therein. This requirement may be satisfied by appropriate scientific evaluation of the compatibility of the substance with the special packaging to determine that the chemical and physical characteristics of the substance will not compromise or interfere with the proper functioning of the special packaging. The special packaging must also continue to function with the effectiveness specifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this section for the number of openings and closings customary for its size and contents. This requirement may be satisfied by appropriate technical evaluation based on physical wear and stress factors, force required for activation, and other such relevant factors which establish that, for the duration of normal use, the effectiveness specifications of the packaging would not be expected to lessen.
(b)
Effectiveness specifications.
Special packaging, tested by the method described in § 1700.20, shall meet the following specifications:
(1) Child-resistant effectiveness of not less than 85 percent without a demonstration and not less than 80 percent after a demonstration of the proper means of opening such special packaging. In the case of unit packaging, child-resistant effectiveness of not less than 80 percent.
(2)
Ease of adult opening
—(i)
Senior-adult test.
Except for products specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, special packaging shall have a senior adult use effectiveness (SAUE) of not less than 90% for the senior-adult panel test of § 1700.20(a)(3).
(ii)
Younger-adult test
—(A)
When applicable.
Products that must be in aerosol form and products that require metal containers, under the criteria specified below, shall have an effectiveness of not less than 90% for the younger-adult test of § 1700.20(a)(4). The senior-adult panel test of § 1700.20(a)(3) does not apply to these products. For the purposes of this paragraph, metal containers are those that have both a metal package and a recloseable metal closure, and aerosol products are self-contained pressurized products.
(B)
Determination of need for metal or aerosol container
—(
1
)
Criteria.
A product will be deemed to require metal containers or aerosol form only if:
(
i
) No other packaging type would comply with other state or Federal regulations,
(
ii
) No other packaging can reasonably be used for the product's intended application,
(
iii
) No other packaging or closure material would be compatible with the substance,
(
iv
) No other suitable packaging type would provide adequate shelf-life for the product's intended use, or
(
v
) Any other reason clearly demonstrates that such packaging is required.
(
2
)
Presumption.
In the absence of convincing evidence to the contrary, a product shall be presumed not to require a metal container if the product,
or another product of identical composition, has previously been marketed in packaging using either a nonmetal package or a nonmetal closure.
(
3
)
Justification.
A manufacturer or packager of a product that is in a metal container or aerosol form that the manufacturer or packager contends is not required to comply with the SAUE requirements of § 1700.20(a)(3) shall provide, if requested by the Commission's staff, a written explanation of why the product must have a metal container or be an aerosol. Manufacturers and packagers who wish to do so voluntarily may submit to the Commission's Office of Compliance a rationale for why their product must be in metal containers or be an aerosol. In such cases, the staff will reply to the manufacturer or packager, if requested, stating the staff's views on the adequacy of the rationale.
(c)
Reuse of special packaging.
Special packaging for substances subject to the provisions of this paragraph shall not be reused.
(d)
Restricted flow.
Special packaging subject to the provisions of this paragraph shall be special packaging from which the flow of liquid is so restricted that not more than 2 milliliters of the contents can be obtained when the inverted, opened container is taken or squeezed once or when the container is otherwise activated once.
(Secs. 2(4), 3, 5, 84 Stat. 1670-72; 15 U.S.C. 1471(4), 1472, 1474)
[38 FR 21247, Aug. 7, 1973, as amended at 60 FR 37734, July 21, 1995]
§ 1700.20
Testing procedure for special packaging.
(a)
Test protocols
—(1)
General requirements
—(i)
Requirements for packaging.
As specified in § 1700.15(b), special packaging is required to meet the child test requirements and the applicable adult test requirements of this § 1700.20.
(ii)
Condition of packages to be tested
—(A)
Tamper-resistant feature.
Any tamper-resistant feature of the package to be tested shall be removed prior to testing unless it is part of the package's child-resistant design. Where a package is supplied to the consumer in an outer package that is not part of the package's child-resistant design, one of the following situations applies:
(
1
) In the child test, the package is removed from the outer package, and the outer package is not given to the child.
(
2
) In both the adult tests, if the outer package bears instructions for how to open or properly resecure the package, the package shall be given to the test subject in the outer package. The time required to remove the package from the outer package is not counted in the times allowed for attempting to open and, if appropriate, reclose the package.
(
3
) In both the adult tests, if the outer package does not bear any instructions relevant to the test, the package will be removed from the outer package, and the outer package will not be given to the test subject.
(B)
Reclosable packages—adult tests.
In both the adult tests, reclosable packages, if assembled by the testing agency, shall be properly secured at least 72 hours prior to beginning the test to allow the materials (e.g., the closure liner) to “take a set.” If assembled by the testing agency, torque-dependent closures shall be secured at the same on-torque as applied on the packaging line. Application torques must be recorded in the test report. All packages shall be handled so that no damage or jarring will occur during storage or transportation. The packages shall not be exposed to extreme conditions of heat or cold. The packages shall be tested at room temperature.
(2)
Child test
—(i)
Test subjects
—(A)
Selection criteria.
Use from 1 to 4 groups of 50 children, as required under the sequential testing criteria in table 1. No more than 20% of the children in each group shall be tested at or obtained from any given site. Each group of children shall be randomly selected as to age, subject to the limitations set forth below. Thirty percent of the children in each group shall be of age 42-44 months, 40% of the children in each group shall be of age 45-48 months, and 30% of the children in each group shall be of age 49-51 months. The children's ages in months shall be calculated as follows:
(
1
) Arrange the birth date and test date by the numerical designations for month, day, and year (e.g., test date: 8/3/1990; birth date: 6/23/1986).
(
2
) Subtract the month, day, and year numbers for the birth date from the respective numbers for the test date. This may result in negative numbers for the months or days. (e.g.,
EC14NO91.026
(
3
) Multiply the difference in years by 12 to obtain the number of months in the difference in years, and add this value to the number of months that was obtained when the birth date was subtracted from the test date (i.e., 4 × 12 = 48; 48 + 2 = 50). This figure either will remain the same or be adjusted up or down by 1 month, depending on the number of days obtained in the subtraction of the birth date from the test date.
(
4
) If the number of days obtained by subtracting the days in the birth date from the days in the test date is + 16 or more, 1 month is added to the number of months obtained above. If the number of days is −16 or less, subtract 1 month. If the number of days is between −15 and + 15 inclusive, no change is made in the number of months. Thus, for the example given above, the number of days is −20, and the number of months is therefore 50 − 1 = 49 months.
(B)
Gender distribution.
The difference between the number of boys and the number of girls in each age range shall not exceed 10% of the number of children in that range. The children selected should have no obvious or overt physical or mental handicap. A parent or guardian of each child shall read and sign a consent form prior to the child's participation. (The Commission staff will not disregard the results of tests performed by other parties simply because informed consent for children is not obtained.)
(ii)
Test failures.
A test failure shall be any child who opens the special packaging or gains access to its contents. In the case of unit packaging, however, a test failure shall be any child who opens or gains access to the number of individual units which constitute the amount that may produce serious personal injury or serious illness, or a child who opens or gains access to more than 8 individual units, whichever number is lower, during the full 10 minutes of testing. The number of units that a child opens or gains access to is interpreted as the individual units from which the product has been or can be removed in whole or in part. The determination of the amount of a substance that may produce serious personal injury or serious illness shall be based on a 25-pound (11.4 kg) child. Manufacturers or packagers intending to use unit packaging for a substance requiring special packaging are requested to submit such toxicological data to the Commission's Office of Compliance.
(iii)
Sequential test.
The sequential test is initially conducted using 50 children, and, depending on the results, the criteria in table 1 determine whether the package is either child-resistant or not child-resistant or whether further testing is required. Further testing is required if the results are inconclusive and involves the use of one or more additional groups of 50 children each, up to a maximum of 200 children. No individual shall administer the test to more than 30% of the children tested in each group. Table 1 gives the acceptance (pass), continue testing, and rejection (fail) criteria to be used for the first 5 minutes and the full 10 minutes of the children's test. If the test continues past the initial 50-child panel, the package openings shown in table 1 are cumulative.
Table 1—Number of Openings: Acceptance (Pass), Continue Testing, and Rejection (Fail) Criteria for the First 5 Minutes and the Full 10 Minutes of the Children's Protocol Test
Test panel
Cumulative number of children
Package openings
First 5 minutes
Pass
Continue
Fail
Full 10 minutes
Pass
Continue
Fail
1
50
0-3
4-10
11 +
0-5
6-14
15 +
2
100
4-10
11-18
19 +
6-15
16-24
25 +
3
150
11-18
19-25
26 +
16-25
26-34
35 +
4
200
19-30
31 +
26-40
41 +
(iv)
Test procedures.
The children shall be divided into groups of two. The testing shall be done in a location that is familiar to the children, for example, their customary nursery school or regular kindergarten. No child shall test more than two special packages. When more than one special package is being tested, each package shall be of a different ASTM type and they shall be presented to the paired children in random order. This order shall be recorded. The children shall be tested by the procedure incorporated in the following test instructions:

# Standardized Child Test Instructions
1. Reclosable packages, if assembled by the testing agency, shall be properly secured at least 72 hours prior to the opening described in instruction number 3 to allow the materials (e.g., the closure liner) to “take a set.” Application torques must be recorded in the test report.
2. All packages shall be handled so that no damage or jarring will occur during storage or transportation. The packages shall not be exposed to extreme conditions of heat or cold. The packages shall be tested at room temperature.
3. Reclosable packages shall be opened and properly resecured one time (or more if appropriate), by the testing agency or other adult prior to testing. The opening and resecuring shall not be done in the presence of the children. (In the adult-resecuring test, the tester must not open and resecure the package prior to the test.) If multiple openings/resecurings are to be used, each of four (4) testers shall open and properly resecure one fourth of the packages once and then shall open and properly resecure each package a second, third, fourth, through tenth (or other specified number) time, in the same sequence as the first opening and resecuring. The packages shall not be opened and resecured again prior to testing. The name of each tester and the package numbers that he/she opens and resecures shall be recorded and reported. It is not necessary for the testers to protocol test the packages that they opened and resecured.
4. The children shall have no overt physical or mental handicaps. No child with a permanent or temporary illness, injury, or handicap that would interfere with his/her effective participation shall be included in the test.
5. The testing shall take place in a well-lighted location that is familiar to the children and that is isolated from all distractions.
6. The tester, or another adult, shall escort a pair of children to the test area. The tester shall seat the two children so that there is no visual barrier between the children and the tester.
7. The tester shall talk to the children to make them feel at ease.
8. The children shall not be given the impression that they are in a race or contest. They are not to be told that the test is a game or that it is fun. They are not to be offered a reward.
9. The tester shall record all data prior to, or after, the test so that full attention can be on the children during the test period.
10. The tester shall use a stopwatch(s) or other timing devices to time the number of seconds it takes the child to open the package and to time the 5-minute test periods.
11. To begin the test, the tester shall hand the children identical packages and say, “PLEASE TRY TO OPEN THIS FOR ME.”
12. If a child refuses to participate after the test has started, the tester shall reassure the child and gently encourage the child to try. If the child continues to refuse, the tester shall ask the child to hold the package in his/her lap until the other child is finished. This pair of children shall not be eliminated from the results unless the refusing child disrupts the participation of the other child.
13. Each child shall be given up to 5 minutes to open his/her package. The tester shall watch the children at all times during the test. The tester shall minimize conversation with the children as long as they continue to attempt to open their packages. The tester shall not discourage the children verbally or with facial expressions. If a child
gets frustrated or bored and stops trying to open his/her package, the tester shall reassure the child and gently encourage the child to keep trying (e.g., “please try to open the package”).
14. The children shall be allowed freedom of movement to work on their packages as long as the tester can watch both children (e.g., they can stand up, get down on the floor, or bang or pry the package).
15. If a child is endangering himself or others at any time, the test shall be stopped and the pair of children eliminated from the final results.
16. The children shall be allowed to talk to each other about opening the packages and shall be allowed to watch each other try to open the packages.
17. A child shall not be allowed to try to open the other child's package.
18. If a child opens his/her package, the tester shall say, “THANK YOU,” take the package from the child and put it out of the child's reach. The child shall not be asked to open the package a second time.
19. At the end of the 5-minute period, the tester shall demonstrate how to open the package if either child has not opened his or her package. A separate “demo” package shall be used for the demonstration.
20. Prior to beginning the demonstration, the tester shall ask the children to set their packages aside. The children shall not be allowed to continue to try to open their packages during the demonstration period.
21. The tester shall say, “WATCH ME OPEN MY PACKAGE.”
22. Once the tester gets the children's full attention, the tester shall hold the demo package approximately two feet from the children and open the package at a normal speed as if the tester were going to use the contents. There shall be no exaggerated opening movements.
23. The tester shall not discuss or describe how to open the package.
24. To begin the second 5-minute period, the tester shall say, “NOW YOU TRY TO OPEN YOUR PACKAGES.”
25. If one or both children have not used their teeth to try to open their packages during the first 5 minutes, the tester shall say immediately before beginning the second 5-minute period, “YOU CAN USE YOUR TEETH IF YOU WANT TO.” This is the only statement that the tester shall make about using teeth.
26. The test shall continue for an additional 5 minutes or until both children have opened their packages, whichever comes first.
27. At the end of the test period, the tester shall say, “THANK YOU FOR HELPING.” If children were told that they could use their teeth, the tester shall say, “I KNOW I TOLD YOU THAT YOU COULD USE YOUR TEETH TODAY, BUT YOU SHOULD NOT PUT THINGS LIKE THIS IN YOUR MOUTH AGAIN” In addition, the tester shall say, “NEVER OPEN PACKAGES LIKE THIS WHEN YOU ARE BY YOURSELF. THIS KIND OF PACKAGE MIGHT HAVE SOMETHING IN IT THAT WOULD MAKE YOU SICK.”
28. The children shall be escorted back to their classroom or other supervised area by the tester or another adult.
29. If the children are to participate in a second test, the tester shall have them stand up and stretch for a short time before beginning the second test. The tester shall take care that the children do not disrupt other tests in progress.
(3)
Senior-adult panel
—(i)
Test subjects.
Use a group of 100 senior adults. Not more than 24% of the senior adults tested shall be obtained from or tested at any one site. Each group of senior adults shall be randomly selected as to age, subject to the limitations set forth below. Twenty-five percent of the participants shall be 50-54 years of age, 25% of participants shall be 55-59 years of age, and 50% of the participants shall be 60-70 years old. Seventy percent of the participants of ages 50-59 and ages 60-70 shall be female (17 or 18 females shall be apportioned to the 50-54 year age group). No individual tester shall administer the test to more than 35% of the senior adults tested. The adults selected should have no obvious or overt physical or mental disability.
(ii)
Screening procedures.
Participants who are unable to open the packaging being tested in the first 5-minute time period, are given a screening test. The screening tests for this purpose shall use two packages with conventional (not child-resistant (CR) or “special”) closures. One closure shall be a plastic snap closure and the other a CT plastic closure. Each closure shall have a diameter of 28 mm±18%, and the CT closures shall have been resecured 72 hours before testing at 10 inch-pounds of torque. The containers for both the snap- and CT-type closures shall be round plastic containers, in sizes of 2 ounce±
1/2
ounce for the CT-type closure and 8 drams±4 drams for the snap-type closure. Persons who cannot open and close both of the screening packages in 1-minute screening tests shall not be counted as participants in the senior-adult panel.
(iii)
SAUE.
The senior adult use effectiveness (SAUE) is the percentage of
adults who both opened the package in the first (5-minute) test period and opened and (if appropriate) properly resecured the package in the 1-minute test period.
(iv)
Test procedures.
The senior adults shall be tested individually, rather than in groups of two or more. The senior adults shall receive only such printed instructions on how to open and properly secure the special packaging as will appear on or accompany the package as it is delivered to the consumer. The senior-adult panel is tested according to the procedure incorporated in the following senior-adult panel test instructions:

# Test Instructions for Senior Test
The following test instructions are used for all senior tests. If non-reclosable packages are being tested, the commands to close the package are eliminated.
1. No adult with a permanent or temporary illness, injury, or disability that would interfere with his/her effective participation shall be included in the test.
2. Each adult shall read and sign a consent form prior to participating. Any appropriate language from the consent form may be used to recruit potential participants. The form shall include the basic elements of informed consent as defined in 16 CFR 1028.116. Examples of the forms used by the Commission staff for testing are shown at § 1700.20(d). Before beginning the test, the tester shall say, “PLEASE READ AND SIGN THIS CONSENT FORM.” If an adult cannot read the consent form for any reason (forgot glasses, illiterate, etc.), he/she shall not participate in the test.
3. Each adult shall participate individually and not in the presence of other participants or onlookers.
4. The tests shall be conducted in well-lighted and distraction-free areas.
5. Records shall be filled in before or after the test, so that the tester's full attention is on the participant during the test period. Recording the test times to open and resecure the package are the only exceptions.
6. To begin the first 5-minute test period, the tester says, “I AM GOING TO ASK YOU TO OPEN AND PROPERLY CLOSE THESE TWO IDENTICAL PACKAGES ACCORDING TO THE INSTRUCTIONS FOUND ON THE CAP.” (Specify other instruction locations if appropriate.)
7. The first package is handed to the participant by the tester, who says, “PLEASE OPEN THIS PACKAGE ACCORDING TO THE INSTRUCTIONS ON THE CAP.” (Specify other instruction locations if appropriate.) If the package contains product, the tester shall say, “PLEASE EMPTY THE (PILLS, TABLETS, CONTENTS, etc.) INTO THIS CONTAINER.” After the participant opens the package, the tester says, “PLEASE CLOSE THE PACKAGE PROPERLY, ACCORDING TO THE INSTRUCTIONS ON THE CAP.” (Specify other instruction locations if appropriate)
8. Participants are allowed up to 5 minutes to read the instructions and open and close the package. The tester uses a stopwatch(s) or other timing device to time the opening and resecuring times. The elapsed times in seconds to open the package and to close the package are recorded on the data sheet as two separate times.
9. After 5 minutes, or when the participant has opened and closed the package, whichever comes first, the tester shall take all test materials from the participant. The participant may remove and replace the closure more than once if the participant initiates these actions. If the participant does not open the package and stops trying to open it before the end of the 5-minute period, the tester shall say, “ARE YOU FINISHED WITH THAT PACKAGE, OR WOULD YOU LIKE TO TRY AGAIN?” If the participant indicates that he/she is finished or cannot open the package and does not wish to continue trying, skip to Instruction 13.
10. To begin the second test period, the tester shall give the participant another, but identical, package and say, “THIS IS AN IDENTICAL PACKAGE. PLEASE OPEN IT ACCORDING TO THE INSTRUCTIONS ON THE CAP.” (Specify other instruction locations if appropriate.) If the package contains product, the tester shall say, “PLEASE EMPTY THE (PILLS, TABLETS, CONTENTS, etc.) INTO THIS CONTAINER.” After the participant opens the package, the tester says, “PLEASE CLOSE THE PACKAGE PROPERLY, ACCORDING TO THE INSTRUCTIONS ON THE CAP.” (Specify other instruction locations if appropriate.)
11. The participants are allowed up to 1 minute (60 full seconds) to open and close the package. The elapsed times in seconds to open and to close the package are recorded on the data sheet as two separate times. The time that elapses between the opening of the package and the end of the instruction to close the package is not counted as part of the 1-minute test time.
12. After the 1-minute test, or when the participant has opened and finished closing the package, whichever comes first, the tester shall take all the test materials from the participant. The participant shall not be allowed to handle the package again. If the participant does not open the package and stops trying to open it before the end of the 1-minute period, the tester shall say, “ARE YOU FINISHED WITH THAT PACKAGE, OR WOULD YOU LIKE TO TRY AGAIN?” If the participant indicates that he/she is finished
or cannot open the package and does not wish to continue trying, this shall be counted as a failure of the 1-minute test.
13. Participants who do not open the package in the first 5-minute test period are asked to open and close two non-child-resistant screening packages. The participants are given a 1-minute test period for each package. The tester shall give the participant a package and say, “PLEASE OPEN AND PROPERLY CLOSE THIS PACKAGE.” The tester records the time for opening and closing, or 61 seconds, whichever is less, on the data sheet. The tester then gives the participant the second package and says, “PLEASE OPEN AND PROPERLY CLOSE THIS PACKAGE.” The time to open and resecure, or 61 seconds, whichever is less, shall be recorded on the data sheet.
14. Participants who cannot open and resecure both of the non-child-resistant screening packages are not counted as part of the 100-seniors panel. Additional participants are selected and tested.
15. No adult may participate in more than two tests per sitting. If a person participates in two tests, the packages tested shall not be the same ASTM type of package.
16. If more adults in a sex or age group are tested than are necessary to determine SAUE, the last person(s) tested shall be eliminated from that group.
(4)
Younger-adult panel.
(i) One hundred adults, age 18 to 45 inclusive, with no overt physical or mental handicaps, and 70% of whom are female, shall comprise the test panel for younger adults. Not more than 35% of adults shall be obtained or tested at any one site. No individual tester shall administer the test to more than 35% of the adults tested. The adults shall be tested individually, rather than in groups of two or more. The adults shall receive only such printed instructions on how to open and properly resecure the special packaging as will appear on the package as it is delivered to the consumer. Five minutes shall be allowed to complete the opening and, if appropriate, the resecuring process.
(ii) Records shall be kept of the number of adults unable to open and of the number of the other adults tested who fail to properly resecure the special packaging. The number of adults who successfully open the special packaging and then properly resecure the special packaging (if resecuring is appropriate) is the percent of adult-use effectiveness of the special packaging. In the case of unit packaging, the percent of adult-use effectiveness shall be the number of adults who successfully open a single (unit) package.
(b) The standards published as regulations issued for the purpose of designating particular substances as being subject to the requirements for special packaging under the act will stipulate the percent of child-resistant effectiveness and adult-use effectiveness required for each and, where appropriate, will include any other conditions deemed necessary and provided for in the act.
(c) It is recommended that manufacturers of special packaging, or producers of substances subject to regulations issued pursuant to the act, submit to the Commission summaries of data resulting from tests conducted in accordance with this protocol.
(d)
Recommendations.
The following instructions and procedures, while not required, are used by the Commission's staff and are recommended for use where appropriate.
(1)
Report format for child test.

# A. Identification
1. Close-up color photographs(s) clearly identifying the package and showing the opening instructions on the closure.
2. Product name and the number of tablets or capsules in the package.
3. Product manufacturer.
4. Closure model (trade name—e.g., “KLIK
SNAP”).
5. Closure size (e.g., 28 mm).
6. Closure manufacturer.
7. Closure material and color(s) (e.g., white polypropylene).
8. Closure liner material.
9. TAC seal material.
10. Opening instructions (quote exactly, e.g., “WHILE PUSHING, DOWN, TURN RIGHT”). Commas are used to separate words that are on different lines.
11. Symbols, numbers, and letters found inside the closure.
12. Package model.
13. Package material and color.
14. Net contents.
15. Symbols, numbers, and letters on the bottom of the package.
16. Other product identification, e.g., EPA Registration Number.

# B. Procedures
1. Describe all procedures for preparing the test packages.
2. Describe the testing procedures.
3. Describe all instructions given to the children.
4. Define an individual package failure.

# C. Results
1. Openings in each 5-minute period and total openings for males and for females in each age group.
2. Opening methods (e.g., normal opening, teeth, etc.).
3. Mean opening times and standard deviation for each 5-minute test period.
4. The percentage of packages tested at each site as a percentage of total packages.
5. The percentage of packages tested by each tester as a percentage of total packages.
6. Child-resistant effectiveness for the first 5-minute period and for the total test period.
(2)
Standardized adult-resecuring test instructions.
CPSC will use the adult-resecuring test where an objective determination (e.g., visual or mechanical) that a package is properly resecured cannot be made. The adult-resecuring test is performed as follows:

# Adult-Resecuring Procedure
1. After the adult participant in either the senior-adult test of 16 CFR 1700.20(a)(3) or the younger-adult test of 16 CFR 1700.20(a)(4) has resecured the package, or at the end of the test period (whichever comes first), the tester shall take the package and place it out of reach. The adult participant shall not be allowed to handle the package again.
2. The packages that have been opened and appear to be resecured by adults shall be tested by children according to the child-test procedures to determine if the packages have been properly resecured. The packages are given to the children without being opened or resecured again for any purpose.
3. Using the results of the adult tests and the tests of apparently-resecured packaging by children, the adult use effectiveness is calculated as follows:
a.
Adult use effectiveness.
1. The number of adult opening and resecuring failures, plus the number of packages that were opened by the children during the full 10-minute test that exceeds 20% of the apparently-resecured packages, equals the total number of failures.
2. The total number of packages tested by adults (which is 100) minus the total number of failures equals the percent adult-use effectiveness.
(3)
Report format for adult-resecuring test.

# A. Identification
1. Close-up color photograph(s) clearly identifying the package and showing the top of the closure.
2. Product name and the number of tablets or capsules in the package.
3. Product manufacturer.
4. Closure model (trade name).
5. Closure size (e.g., 28 mm).
6. Closure manufacturer.
7. Closure material and color(s) (e.g., white polypropylene)
8. Closure liner material.
9. Symbols, numbers, and letters found inside the closure.
10. TAC seal material.
11. Opening instructions (Quote exactly, e.g., “WHILE PUSHING, DOWN, TURN RIGHT”). Commas are used to separate words that are on different lines.
12. Package model.
13. Package material and color.
14. Net contents.
15. Symbols, numbers, and letters on the bottom of the package.
16. Other product identification, e.g., EPA Registration Number.

# B. Procedures
1. Describe all procedures for preparing the test packages.
2. Describe the testing procedures in detail.
3. Describe all instructions given to participants.
4. Define an individual package failure and the procedures for determining a failure.

# C. Results

# Adult Test
1. Total packages opened and total packages resecured; packages opened by males and by females; and packages resecured by males and by females.
2. Mean opening times and standard deviation for total openings, total openings by females, and total openings by males.
3. Mean resecuring times and standard deviation for total resecurings, total resecurings by females and total resecurings by males.
4. The percentage of packages tested at each site as a percentage of total packages.
5. The percentage of packages tested by each tester as a percentage of total packages.
6. Methods of opening (e.g., normal opening, pried closure off, etc.)

# Child Test
1. Openings in each 5-minute period, and total openings, for males and females in each age group.
2. Opening methods.
3. Mean opening times and standard deviation for each 5-minute test period.
4. The percentage of packages tested at each site as a percentage of total packages.
5. The percentage of packages tested by each tester as a percentage of total packages.
(4) Consent forms. The Commission uses the following consent forms for senior-adult testing reclosable and unit-dose packaging, respectively.
1.
Reclosable packages.

# [Testing Organization's Letterhead]

# Child-Resistant Package Testing
The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission is responsible for testing child-resistant packages to make sure they protect young children from medicines and dangerous household products. With the help of people like you, manufacturers are able to improve the packages we use, keeping the contents safe from children but easier for the rest of us to open.
Effective child-resistant packages have prevented thousands of poisonings since the Poison Prevention Act was passed in 1970. The use of child-resistant packages on prescription medicines alone may have saved the lives of over 350 children since 1974.
As part of this program, we are testing a child-resistant package to determine if it can be opened and properly closed by an adult who is between 50 and 70 years of age. You may or may not be familiar with the packages we are testing. Take your time, and please do not feel that you are being tested—we are testing the package, not you.

# Description of the Test
1. I will give you a package and ask you to read the instructions and open and properly close the package.
2. I will then give you an identical package, and ask you to open and properly close it.
3. I may ask you to open some other types of packages.
4. The packages may be empty or they may contain a product.
5. I will ask you whether you think the child-resistant package was easy or hard to use.

# Consent Form for Child-Resistant Package Testing
The Consumer Product Safety Commission has been using contractors to test child-resistant packages for many years with no injuries to anyone, although it is possible that a minor injury could happen.
I agree to test a child-resistant package. I understand that I can change my mind at any time. I am between the ages of 50 and 70, inclusive.
Birthdate
Signature
Date
Zip Code

# Office Use
Site:
Sample Number:
Test Number:
Package Number:
2.
Unit-dose packages.

# [Testing Organization's Letterhead]

# Unit Dose Child-Resistant Package Testing
The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission is responsible for testing child-resistant packages to make sure they protect young children from medicines and dangerous household products. With the help of people like you, manufacturers are able to improve the packages we use, keeping the contents safe from children but easier for the rest of us to open.
Effective child-resistant packages have prevented thousands of poisonings since the Poison Prevention Act was passed in 1970.
The use of child-resistant packages on prescription medicines alone may have saved the lives of over 350 children since 1974.
As part of this program, we are testing a child-resistant package to determine if it can be opened by an adult who is between 50 and 70 years of age. You may or may not be familiar with the packages we are testing. Take your time, and please do not feel that you are being tested—we are testing the package, not you.

# Description of the Test
1. I will give you a package and ask you to read the instructions, open one unit, and remove the contents.
2. I will then give you an identical package, and ask you to open one unit and remove the contents.
3. I may ask you to open some other types of packages.
4. I will ask you whether you think the child-resistant package was easy or hard to use.

# Consent Form for Child-Resistant Package Testing
The Consumer Product Safety Commission has been using contractors to test child-resistant packages for many years with no injuries to anyone, although it is possible that a minor injury could happen.
I agree to test a child-resistant package. I understand that I can change my mind at any time. I am between the ages of 50 and 70, inclusive.
Birthdate
Signature
Date
Zip Code

# Office Use
Site:
Sample Number:
Test Number:
Package Number:
[38 FR 21247, Aug. 7, 1973, as amended at 60 FR 37735, 37738, July 22, 1995]
Pt. 1701

# PART 1701—STATEMENTS OF POLICY AND INTERPRETATION
Sec.
1701.1
Special packaging for substances subject to a standard that are distributed to pharmacies to be dispensed pursuant to an order of a licensed medical practitioner.
1701.3
Applicability of special packaging requirements to hazardous substances in large size containers.
§ 1701.1
Special packaging for substances subject to a standard that are distributed to pharmacies to be dispensed pursuant to an order of a licensed medical practitioner.
(a) In order to assist manufacturers of prescription drugs in discharging their responsibilities under the act concerning such drugs that are distributed to pharmacies, the Consumer Product Safety Commission has codified this statement of its policy concerning which prescription drug packages supplied by manufacturers to pharmacies must comply with the “special” (child-resistant) packaging requirements contained in 16 CFR 1700.15.
(b) Manufacturers of prescription drugs may package such drugs for distribution to pharmacies in different types of packages, depending on whether the manufacturer intends that the package will be the one in which the drug is ultimately given to the consumer or whether it is intended that the pharmacist will repackage the drug before it is dispensed to the consumer. If the drug is supplied in a bulk package from which individual prescriptions are intended to be repackaged by the pharmacist, the manufacturer need not utilize special packaging. However, the Commission interprets the provision of the act as requiring that all prescription drugs subject to a special packaging standard that are distributed to pharmacies shall be in special packaging if the immediate package in which the drugs are distributed by the manufacturer is intended to be the package in which the drugs are dispensed to the consumer. Examples of such packages include mnemonic dispensing devices; dropper bottles; packages with “tear off” labels; packages which incorporate ancillary instructions for consumer handling, storage, or use on permanently affixed portions of their labels; and products intended to be reconstituted in their original containers. The Commission believes that this interpretation is necessary in order to insure that the pharmacist will actually dispense the drug in the proper package. If the pharmacist receives a request from the consumer or an order from the prescribing medical practitioner for conventional (noncomplying) packaging, section 4(b) of the act permits the pharmacist to convert the package to conventional packaging or repackage the drug in conventional packaging.
(c) Manufacturers should also note that section 4(a) of the act (which allows a product to be marketed in noncomplying packaging of a single size under certain circumstances) does not apply to prescription drugs subject to section 4(b) of the act. Thus, since the section 4(a) single-size exemption for over-the-counter drugs and other household substances does not apply to prescription drugs, every unit of a prescription drug subject to a special packaging standard which is distributed to a pharmacy in a package intended by the manufacturer to be dispensed to a consumer shall be in special packaging.
(d) Nothing in this statement of policy and interpretation should be interpreted as relieving the pharmacist of the responsibility of insuring that all prescription drugs subject to a special packaging standard are dispensed to the consumer in special packaging unless otherwise ordered by the prescribing practitioner or otherwise requested by the consumer.
(Secs. 2-4, Pub. L. 91-601, 84 Stat. 1670, 1671 (15 U.S.C. 1471-1473); sec. 701(a), 52 Stat. 1055 (21 U.S.C. 371(a))
[43 FR 11980 Mar. 23, 1978]
§ 1701.3
Applicability of special packaging requirements to hazardous substances in large size containers.
The special packaging requirements of the PPPA apply to “household substances” for which the Commission has determined there is a need for special packaging, as provided in section 3 of the act (15 U.S.C. 1472). At section 2(2) of the act (15 U.S.C. 1471) (restated at 16
CFR 1700.1(b)(2)), the term
household substance
is defined as “any substance which is customarily produced or distributed for sale for consumption or use, or customarily stored, by individuals in or about the household * * *.” The Commission has issued requirements for special packaging for certain hazardous substances at 16 CFR 1700.14(a). Unless otherwise indicated in the requirements for specific hazardous substances, the Commission interprets the term “household substance” as only applying to these hazardous substances when packaged in containers with a capacity of less than 5 gallons. As a result, unless otherwise specified, the hazardous substances at 16 CFR 1700.14(a) are not required to be in special packaging when packaged in containers of 5 gallons or more.
(Secs. 2, 5, 7, 9, Pub. L. 91-601; 94 Stat. 1670-1674 (15 U.S.C. 1471, 1474, 1476, 1478); sec. 30(a), Pub. L. 92-573, 86 Stat. 1231 (15 U.S.C. 2079(a))
[43 FR 53712, Nov. 17, 1978]
Pt. 1702

# PART 1702—PETITIONS FOR EXEMPTIONS FROM POISON PREVENTION PACKAGING ACT REQUIREMENTS; PETITION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
Sec.
1702.1
Purpose and policy.
1702.2
Procedural requirements and recommendations.
1702.3
Substantive requirements.
1702.4
Petitions with insufficient or incomplete information.
1702.5
Failure to supply adverse information.
1702.6
Trade secrets and other confidential information.
1702.7
Justification for the exemption.
1702.8
Human experience data.
1702.9
Relevant experimental data.
1702.10
Human experimental data involving the testing of human subjects.
1702.11
Product specifications.
1702.12
Packaging specifications.
1702.13
Labeling and packaging samples.
1702.14
Marketing history.
1702.15
Petitions alleging the incompatibility of child resistant packaging with the particular substance petitioned for exemption.
1702.16
Petitions requesting an exemption for a drug or a new drug.
1702.17
Granting petitions.
1702.18
Denying petitions.
1702.19
Effect of filing petition.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1471(4), 1472, 1474, 1269(a), 2079(a); 21 U.S.C. 371(a).

# Source:
45 FR 13064, Feb. 28, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1702.1
Purpose and policy.
(a) Section 1700.14(a) of part 1700 lists household substances the Consumer Product Safety Commission requires, under section 3(a)(1) of the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970, 15 U.S.C. 1472, to be contained in special packaging to protect children from serious personal injury or serious illness resulting from handling, using, or ingesting such substances. There may be occasions, however, when the Commission determines that a particular substance should be exempt from special packaging requirements.
(b) The Commission may, either on its own initiative or upon the petition of any interested person, amend the regulation at § 1700.14(a) by exempting a substance or category of substances from special packaging requirements. The purpose of these rules is to provide procedures and requirements for submitting petitions for exemption from special packaging requirements.
§ 1702.2
Procedural requirements and recommendations.
(a)
Requirements.
To be considered a petition for exemption from special packaging requirements under this part a document filed under this part must:
(1) Be mailed to the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, D.C. 20207, or delivered to the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814,
(2) Be written in the English language,
(3) Contain the name and address of the petitioner,
(4) Contain an explicit request for exemption from special packaging requirements,
(5) Identify the category of substances under § 1700.14(a) from which the exemption is sought, and
(6) Identify the particular substance for which the exemption is sought.
(b)
Failure to meet requirements.
Where a submission fails to meet all of the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the Office of the Secretary shall notify the person submitting it, describe the deficiency, and explain that the petition may be resubmitted when the deficiency is corrected.
(c)
Procedural recommendations.
The following are procedural recommendations to help the Commission in its consideration of petitions. The Commission requests, but does not require, that petitions filed under this part:
(1) Be typewritten,
(2) Include the word “petition” in a heading preceding the text,
(3) Include the telephone number of the petitioner, and
(4) Be accompanied by at least five (5) copies of the petition.
[45 FR 13064, Feb. 28, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 46668, Sept. 4, 1997]
§ 1702.3
Substantive requirements.
(a) A petition filed under this part shall include the information required by this part, or a satisfactory explanation for the absence of the information. As provided by § 1702.4, a petition which is not complete may be closed. To be considered complete, a petition shall include the following:
(1) A statement of the justification for the exemption in accordance with § 1702.7,
(2) All reasonably available human experience data, reasonably available relevant experimental data (both human and animal), product and packaging specifications, labeling, and marketing history, in accordance with §§ 1702.8 through 1702.14,
(b) As used in this regulation, “reasonably available” information is data in the petitioner's possession; data that has previously been generated by the petitioner, and data that is obtainable from such sources as: Reports from Poison Control Centers; reports of adverse reactions that have been submitted to the petitioner; the medical, pharmacological, and toxicological literature; and information required by the FDA for an Investigational Exemption for a New Drug (IND) or a New Drug Application (NDA).
§ 1702.4
Petitions with insufficient or incomplete information.
If a petition is submitted that is not complete and does not explain the reason for the absence of the information, the Commission shall afford the petitioner a reasonable opportunity to provide additional information. If the required information is not submitted to the Commission, or if the petitioner does not satisfactorily explain the absence of the information within a reasonable time, the petition shall be closed if insufficient or incomplete information has been submitted to enable the Commission to evaluate the merits of the exemption request.
§ 1702.5
Failure to supply adverse information.
Failure to obtain and provide the Commission with all reasonably available information that the petitioner knows is unfavorable or could reasonably expect to be unfavorable to the petition shall result in the denial of the petition.
§ 1702.6
Trade secrets and other confidential information.
Where a petition contains material that the petitioner believes should be exempt from public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, the petitioner shall comply with the requirements of 16 CFR part 1015, the Commission's regulation under the Freedom of Information Act concerning requests for treatment as exempt material. The Commission shall act upon any request for treatment as exempt material in accordance with the provisions of 16 CFR part 1015.
§ 1702.7
Justification for the exemption.
The justification for the exemption, required under § 1702.3, shall explain the reason for the exemption based on one or more of the following grounds:
(a) If the justification is based on a lack of need for special packaging to protect young children from serious injury or illness from the substance, the justification shall state how the lack of toxicity and lack of adverse human experience for the substance clearly supports granting the exemption.
(b) If the exemption is requested because special packaging is not technologically feasible, practicable, or appropriate for the substance, the justification shall explain why.
(c) If the exemption is requested because special packaging is incompatible with the particular substance, the justification shall explain why.
§ 1702.8
Human experience data.
Human experience data constitutes the primary criterion used by the Commission in evaluating petitions for exemptions. Petitions shall therefore include a compilation of all reasonably available reports pertaining to human use of the particular substance, including the product brand as well as generic equivalents and involving adverse reports of personal injury, illness, and significant allergenicity. Such information in children is of particular importance in evaluating exemption requests. However, similar data in adults shall also be submitted if available. Human experience data may be obtained from such sources as:
(a) Reports from Poison Control Centers,
(b) Reports of adverse reactions relative to the product that have been submitted to the company by physicians, hospitals, consumers, and other sources,
(c) Extensive searches of the medical, pharmacological, and toxicological literature, and
(d) For drugs, where the human experience data submitted is based on data required by FDA to be compiled for an Investigational Exemption for a New Drug (IND), 21 CFR part 312, or a New Drug Application (NDA), 21 CFR part 314, a summary of the relevant data should be provided. The entire NDA and IND material need not be submitted.
§ 1702.9
Relevant experimental data.
Experimental data are generated in both animals and humans in controlled situations in order to evaluate the biological effects of a substance. Certain toxicological effects cannot generally be evaluated in human beings. This is especially true of those substances which are not normally intended to be used in or on the human body or animal body. Therefore, the Commission considers experimental data obtained in animal studies to be an important supplement to such data as may exist from any experimental studies conducted in humans. The minimum toxicological evaluation necessary for a particular household substance is proportional to the expected exposure of man to that substance. Household substances which are not expected, in normal use, to contact man are subject to less extensive studies than those substances, such as drugs, which are designed to be used in or on man. The Commission has, therefore, separated the requirements of this section into three subsections. Section 1702.9(a) lists minimum acute animal toxicity data which shall be submitted, if reasonably available, for all petitions; § 1702.9(b) lists those additional data which shall be submitted, if reasonably available, for drug products and all other household substances which are normally intended to be used in or on the human body; and § 1702.9(c) lists those additional data which shall be submitted, if reasonably available, by petitioners requesting exemption for substances not intended for use in or on the human or animal body. The Commission emphasizes that, while not absolutely necessary, the types of data outlined in § 1702.9(c) may greatly expedite the Commission's evaluation of a particular exemption request.
(a)
General criteria applicable to all petitions.
(1) Each petition for an exemption under this part shall include all reasonably available relevant experimental data relating to the petition regardless of whether such data are unfavorable to the petitioner's request. As used in this part, the term “relevant experimental data” includes, but is not limited to, all data, including animal and human studies revealing the nature and degree of the hazard associated with the particular substance. Generally, the hazard associated with the particular substance involves the risk of injury arising from the acute accidental ingestion of a product. Where a hazard different from the risk of injury arising from accidental ingestion is known to exist (e.g., potential for significant allergenicity, dermal or opthalmic injury from handling or
using the product), the petitioner shall also submit all reasonably available relevant experimental data evaluating the nature and degree of any additional hazard(s).
(2) All animal studies submitted in support of exemption requests should be performed in conformity with good pharmacological and toxicological practice which includes, as a minimum, complete descriptions of protocols used in experimental animal studies, and signed laboratory reports which include the following basic information:
(i) An exact description of materials tested;
(ii) A description of test animals employed in studies, including number, age, weight, sex and nutritional state of animals;
(iii) Dosage level(s) and number of animals tested per dosage level;
(iv) Basis upon which dosage was administered (e.g., as salt or base);
(v) Route of administration and dosage volume; and
(vi) Appendices containing all raw data and any additional data generated subsequent to the completion of the original study (e.g., results of histopathological examinations, if performed).
(3) Each petition shall include all reasonably available reports of Median Lethal Dosage (LD50) studies and shall include all raw data obtained in such studies. These studies should normally be conducted in both adult and weanling animals of the same species. The oral route of administration should be followed for studies involving substances subject to regulations promulgated under the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970. Where a percutaneous toxicity hazard exists, the petition shall include reasonably available studies using the percutaneous route of administration. Sufficient dosage levels as well as adequate numbers of test animals per dosage level should be used to give statistical reliability to determined LD50 values.
(4) In view of the fact that LD50 values in themselves do not necessarily reflect a true estimate of the overall toxic potential of a substance, LD50 determinations should, where an LD50 value may be calculated, include:
(i) The LD50 value with 95 percent confidence limits;
(ii) A slope determination for the dose response curve, including 95 percent confidence limits; and
(iii) A description of the statistical method employed in the analysis of such data (with proper citation) as well as the statistical analysis itself.
(5) The Commission shall disregard any data which do not fulfill the strict requirements of the statistical method used in their analyses. Modifications of accepted statistical methods which have been published in the literature are acceptable to the Commission provided that a copy of the published work is submitted.
(6) Acute toxicity studies submitted with petitions should have at least a seven day observation period of test animals. Good pharmacological practice provides that test animals are observed closely for several hours following test substance administration and less frequently on subsequent test days. Succumbing animals should be necropsied as soon as practicable following death, while surviving animals should be necropsied, and gross pathological alterations noted, at the end of the observation period. Documentation of non-lethal effects occurring during these observation periods should be submitted in conjunction with acute toxicity laboratory reports. Documentation of any lethal effects occurring at high dosage levels, including mode of death (e.g., cardiac arrest/respiratory arrest), and time of death should be submitted in conjunction with acute toxicity laboratory reports. Reports of gross necropsies performed upon surviving animals should be submitted, as well as results of necropsies performed upon animals succumbing to the test substance, provided that such animals are examined prior to the onset of autolysis. Results of microscopic examinations, when indicated by the nature or results of an acute toxicity study, shall also be submitted.
(b)
Additional data criteria for petitions involving substances normally used in or on the human or animal body.
(1) Petitioners submitting exemption requests for substances normally used on or
taken into the human body or animal body shall, in addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section submit the following data, where reasonably available:
(i) Summary laboratory reports of data obtained in subacute and chronic animal studies where the data pertain to the absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of substances in question;
(ii) A median lethal dosage (LD50) determination conducted in one additional species. Of the two LD50 determinations required for persons submitting exemption requests under this part, one should be conducted in a nonrodent species;
(iii) Summary reports of data obtained in human studies designed to measure the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of substances in question; and
(iv) Data indicating, insofar as is known, the mechanism of action of the substance in question and the mechanism by which expected toxicological effects occur. If these mechanisms are unknown, the petition should state this.
(2) Petitioners submitting exemption requests for substances normally used on or taken into the human or animal body shall, in addition to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) of this section, submit an evaluation of the pharmacology and toxicology of the substance in question based on reasonably available medical and scientific literature. The evaluation should be a comprehensive one, and should include proper literature citations. To the extent possible, information submitted by the petitioner justifying an exemption based on the medical and scientific literature will be evaluated under the criteria specified in § 1702.9(a) for evaluating experimental data. In certain cases where the experimental data specified by § 1702.9 (a) and (b) are unavailable, the medical and scientific literature may justify granting an exemption, particularly where the pharmacology and toxicology of the substance is well documented in the literature.
(c)
Optional data criteria for petitions involving substances not used in or on the human or animal body.
The following types of data, although often not generated for household substances not normally used in or on the human or animal body, may be available to a petitioner and should, where reasonably available, be submitted.
(1) Summary laboratory reports of data obtained in subacute and chronic animal studies where such data pertain to the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of the substance in question;
(2) Results of median lethal dosage (LD50) studies conducted in additional species of animals; and
(3) Any additional experimental studies relevant to the exemption request which would provide the Commission with additional means of assessing the hazards to children of the product for which exemption is sought.
§ 1702.10
Human experimental data involving the testing of human subjects.
Any human experimental data submitted with a petition requesting an exemption under this part shall include a statement establishing that adequate measures have been taken to ensure against psychological or physical injury to the subject of the human studies. The Commission considers its regulations concerning the protection of human subjects (16 CFR part 1028) to be an example of measures that are adequate to ensure against psychological or physical injury to human subjects.
§ 1702.11
Product specifications.
Each petition for an exemption shall include:
(a) A complete quantitative formula for the product, including inert ingredients, diluents, and solvents. (Petitioners should refer to § 1702.6 for information regarding trade secrets.)
(b) A listing of all physical forms or dosage forms (whichever is appropriate) in which the product is available.
§ 1702.12
Packaging specifications.
Each petition for an exemption shall include the following information for each form of the product for which an exemption is sought:
(a) A description of the packaging currently in use including the name of
the manufacturer of the package and all specifications for the package,
(b) A complete packaging description including any carton or wrapping in which the product is offered to the consumer,
(c) A description of each size in which the product is offered, including physical form, color and flavoring, and
(d) An empty sample of each type and size of package petitioned for exemption and, in the case of drugs, a designation of those packages intended to be used in dispensing the product to the consumer for household use.
§ 1702.13
Labeling and packaging samples.
Each petition for an exemption under this part shall include a sample of the label and complete packaging for each size in which each form of the product for which an exemption is sought is packaged. This shall include the immediate container labeling, any package inserts, and other carton or wrapping labeling in which the product is offered to the consumer. In the case of drugs, each petition shall be accompanied by labeling on the outer carton or wrapping in which the product is offered to the retailer, as well as samples of the promotional and advertising information for the product.
§ 1702.14
Marketing history.
Each petition for an exemption under this part shall include a statement of the marketing history of the substance for which an exemption is requested. The marketing history dates from the year in which each form of the product was introduced onto the market. The marketing history shall include the total number of units of each form or strength and package size of the product distributed since the product was introduced onto the market. In the case of prescription drugs, the average prescription size for the product should also be indicated, if known.
§ 1702.15
Petitions alleging the incompatibility of child resistant packaging with the particular substance petitioned for exemption.
(a) Where the petition for an exemption is based upon an allegation that the applicable special packaging standard is incompatible with the particular substance or would seriously and adversely compromise the utility or stability of a substance, the petitioner shall submit adequate evidence to support the allegation.
(b) If the allegation of incompatibility is based upon the fact that package choice is limited by a new drug application filed with the FDA, the petition shall state the limitation of package choice and a description of a time schedule to revise the NDA in order to allow additional package choice.
(c) If the allegation of incompatibility is based upon the fact that the shelf life of the product limits package choice, the petition shall outline the particular limitation and shall include a description of a time schedule to re-establish shelf-life data.
§ 1702.16
Petitions requesting an exemption for a drug or a new drug.
(a) Where the petition requests an exemption for a drug, as defined in section 201(g)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(g)(1), the petitioner shall include those reports required to be filed under the Food and Drug Administration's Adverse Reaction Reporting Program.
(b) [Reserved]
[45 FR 13064, Feb. 28, 1980, as amended at 66 FR 40115, Aug. 2, 2001]
§ 1702.17
Granting petitions.
Where the Commission determines that reasonable grounds for an exemption are presented by the petition, the Commission shall publish, in the
Federal Register,
a proposed amendment to the listing of substances requiring special packaging under § 1700.14(a). “Reasonable grounds” for publishing a proposed exemption are information and data sufficient to support the conclusion that:
(a) The degree or nature of the hazard to children in the availability of the substance, by reason of its packaging, is such that special packaging is not required to protect children from serious personal injury or serious illness resulting from handling, using, or ingesting the substance, or
(b) Special packaging is not technically feasible, practicable, or appropriate for the subject substance, or
(c) Special packaging is incompatible with the particular substance.
§ 1702.18
Denying petitions.
Where the Commission determines that reasonable grounds for an exemption are not presented by the petition, the petition shall be denied, and the petitioner notified in writing of the denial, including a brief statement of the reasons therefor.
§ 1702.19
Effect of filing petition.
The filing of a petition for exemption under this part 1702 shall not have the effect of staying the regulation from which the exemption is sought. Therefore, substances subject to special packaging standards shall be considered in violation of the law unless packaged in special packaging during the Commission's consideration of a petition.

# SUBCHAPTER F—REFRIGERATOR SAFETY ACT REGULATIONS
Pt. 1750

# PART 1750—STANDARD FOR DEVICES TO PERMIT THE OPENING OF HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR DOORS FROM THE INSIDE
Sec.
1750.1
Definitions.
1750.2
Transfer of functions.
1750.3
Scope and application.
1750.4
General requirements.
1750.5
Detailed requirements.
1750.6
Tests.
1750.7
Provision for changes in the standard.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 84-930, sec. 3, 70 Stat. 953 (15 U.S.C. 1213).

# Source:
38 FR 34729, Dec. 18, 1973, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1750.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Act
means the Refrigerator Safety Act (Pub. L. 84-930, 70 Stat. 953; 15 U.S.C. 1211-14), enacted August 2, 1956.
(b)
Commission
means the Consumer Product Safety Commission established by the Consumer Product Safety Act (Pub. L. 92-573, sec. 4, 86 Stat. 1210; 15 U.S.C. 2053).
(c)
Device
means the mechanism or the means provided for enabling the doors of household refrigerators to be opened from the inside.
(d)
Effective date
means the date under the provisions of the act after which all household refrigerators manufactured and introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce must comply with this standard. This date is October 30, 1958.
(e)
Household refrigerator
means a cabinet or any part of a cabinet designed for the storage of food at temperatures above 0 °C. (32 °F.), having a source of refrigeration, and intended for household use.
(f)
Opened
as applied to a refrigerator door means to effect release of the latching mechanism so that a trapped child would have to apply little or no further effort in order to escape.
(g)
Shelving
means any shelf, basket, drawer, or baffle which can be readily removed from the refrigerator without the use of tools.
§ 1750.2
Transfer of functions.
Effective May 14, 1973, section 30(c) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (86 Stat. 1231; 15 U.S.C. 2079(c)) transferred functions under the Refrigerator Safety Act from the Secretary of Commerce and the Federal Trade Commission to the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
§ 1750.3
Scope and application.
This standard shall apply to devices furnished with household refrigerators manufactured and introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce after the effective date (October 30, 1958) which enable such refrigerators to be opened from the inside. The requirements of this standard shall apply to household refrigerators in their normal operating position only. The releasing feature(s) of the device shall be accessible from all spaces which (a) are bounded by interior walls or shelving, (b) are directly accessible when the exterior hinged door(s) is (are) opened, and (c) have a minimum dimension of 20.3 centimeters (8 inches) or more and a volume of 56.6 cubic decimeters (2 cubic feet) or more either with all shelving in place or as the result of the removal or the rearrangement of any or all of the shelving.
§ 1750.4
General requirements.
Household refrigerators shall be equipped with a device enabling the doors thereof to be opened easily from the inside, either by the application of an outwardly directed force to the inside of the door or by the rotation of a knob similar to a conventional doorknob. The device shall not render the refrigerator unsatisfactory for the preservation of food under any or all normal conditions of use.
§ 1750.5
Detailed requirements.
(a)
Releasing forces.
As determined by the tests prescribed by § 1750.6, the device:
(1) Shall permit the refrigerator door to be opened on the application of a force equivalent to one which, if directed perpendicularly to the plane of
the door and applied anywhere along the latch edge of the inside of the closed door, shall not exceed 66.7 newtons (15 pounds);
(2) Shall permit the refrigerator door to be opened on the application of clockwise or counterclockwise turning moment of not more than 0.57 newton-meter (5 inch-pounds) to a knob on the door through an angle of rotation of 45° ±15° in either direction; or
(3) Shall function automatically to permit the door to be opened with a force of 66.7 newtons (15 pounds) or less applied as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section whenever space(s) exist(s) or is (are) created with dimensions and volumes exceeding the dimensions and volumes imposed by § 1750.3.
(b)
Description and location of knob(s).
The knob(s) shall resemble a conventional doorknob in shape and size and shall be mounted near the latch side of the door extending into the cabinet at least 6.3 millimeters (
1/4
inch) beyond any inner door surface within a 15.2-centimeter (6-inch) radius of the knob center. The knob(s) shall be mounted in such a manner that there is a minimum of 19.0-millimeter (
3/4
-inch) clearance between the inner periphery of the knob(s) and adjacent inner door surfaces. The knob(s) shall be located so as to provide the accessibility required by § 1750.3.
(c)
Wear.
The device shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section after 300,000 cycles of operation of the door as determined by the tests prescribed by § 1750.6.
(d)
Protection against adverse effects from spillage, cleaning, defrosting, and condensation.
Devices shall be designed so that spillage of foods or beverages, cleaning or defrosting in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations, or normal condensation will not so adversely affect the operation of the device as to result in its failure to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, as determined by the tests prescribed by § 1750.6.
(e)
Devices which permit door to be opened as a result of forces or turning moments applied to movable components inside the refrigerator.
Those components of a device upon which the safety features of the device depend shall not break, crack, permanently deform, nor show other visible damage when subjected to forces and moments specified in the tests under § 1750.6(c). The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall be satisfied after the device has been subjected to the tests under § 1750.6(c).
(f)
Power supply.
The device shall operate in accordance with the requirements of this standard with the electric, gas, or other fuel supply either on or off.
§ 1750.6
Tests.
It is the intent of this standard that where tests are not specified, the general and detailed requirements shall be checked by inspection, simple measurement, and by consideration of pertinent standard commercial practices. Compliance with the requirements of § 1750.5 (a), (c), (d), and (e) shall be checked with the aid of the following tests:
(a)
Test for releasing force on door.
The force measurements shall be made by means of a force gage with a calibrated accuracy within ±1.3 newtons (±0.3 pound) when measuring a force of 66.7 newtons (15 pounds). The dial of the gage shall be graduated with finest divisions not exceeding 0.9 newton (0.2 pound), and the full-scale range shall not exceed 133.4 newtons (30 pounds). Measurements shall be made at three points on the door near the inside latch edge—one point near the top of the interior space created by removal of all shelving, one point near the bottom, and one point midway between these two points. The requirements of § 1750.5(a)(1) shall be satisfied.
(b)
Test for knob torque.
The measurement of the turning moment required to operate the knob release shall be made with a torque gage adapted for attachment to the knob or knob shaft. The gage shall have a calibrated accuracy within ±0.011 newton-meter (0.10 inch-pound) when measuring a moment of 0.57 newton-meter (5 inch-pounds). The finest graduations on the dial of the gage shall correspond to a moment increment not greater than 0.011 newton-meter (0.10 inch-pound) and the full-scale range shall not exceed 1.13 newton-meters (10 inch-pounds) in each direction from the null reading. The
turning moment shall be applied so as to rotate the knob the full amount required for release, in both a clockwise and a counterclockwise direction. The angle of rotation required for release shall be checked by means of an angle gage adapted to measure the angle of rotation about the longitudinal axis of the knob shaft. The gage shall have a calibrated accuracy within ±1° at an angle of 45° and the finest divisions shall not exceed 1°. The requirements of § 1750.5(a)(2) shall be satisfied.
(c)
Tests for strength of device components which affect the safety features of the device.
(1) The tests prescribed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall apply only to devices which permit the door to be opened as a result of forces or turning moments applied to movable components inside the refrigerator.
(2) A turning moment of 2.26 newton-meters (20 inch-pounds) shall be applied for 50 successive operations in a clockwise direction, followed by 50 successive similar operations in a counterclockwise direction, to components designed to permit the door to be opened as a result of the application of a turning moment to them. The turning moment shall be applied to the outer periphery of the component provided. The gage used for registering the moment applied shall have a calibrated accuracy within ±0.044 newton-meter (±0.4 inch-pound) when measuring a moment of 2.26 newton-meters (20 inch-pounds). The finest graduations on the dial of the gage shall correspond to a moment increment not greater than 0.044 newton-meter (0.4 inch-pound) and the full-scale range of the gage shall not exceed 4.52 newton-meters (40 inch-pounds) in each direction from the null reading. The turning moment applied in each operation shall be applied for a period of time sufficient for the component to come to rest after completing the extent of movement for which designed. A pushing force of 89.0 newtons (20 pounds) shall be applied for 50 successive operations, followed, if applicable, by 50 successive similar operations with a pulling force, to components designed to permit the door to be opened as a result of the application of a force to them. Areas which may be, in service, subjected to pushing or pulling forces which create maximum stresses (for example, points on the outer periphery of components designed to transmit a turning moment, or unsupported portions of members or areas designed for transmitting a force) shall be subjected to test. The gage used for registering the force applied shall have a calibrated accuracy within ±1.8 newtons (±0.4 pound) when measuring a force of 89.0 newtons (20 pounds). The finest graduations on the dial of the gage shall correspond to a force not in excess of 1.8 newtons (0.4 pound) and the full-scale range shall not exceed 177.9 newtons (40 pounds).
(3) Upon being subjected to the tests prescribed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, no device component on which the safety features of the device depend shall break, crack, permanently deform, or show other visible damage. The device must satisfy the requirements of § 1750.5(a) after being subjected to the tests in paragraph (c)(2).
(d)
Simulated use test.
Tests shall be conducted on the completely assembled refrigerator in its normal operating position to determine that the release device complies with the requirements of § 1750.5 during and after the 300,000 cycles of door operation and following exposure to spillage of foods and beverages, to cleaning and defrosting in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations, and to condensation. The equipment provided for operating the door shall open the door sufficiently on each cycle to assure a complete cycle of operation for the latch mechanism.
§ 1750.7
Provision for changes in the standard.
(a) Section 5 of the act provides for the possibility of changes in the commercial standard first established pursuant to section 3 of the act and allows a period of 1 year and 90 days for compliance with such changes after they are published.
(b) Any person wishing to propose a change in this standard shall submit to the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, D.C. 20207, the proposed change. Before a change is recommended, the Consumer Product Safety Commission shall secure advice and consultation from public or private sources including particularly the
household refrigerator manufacturing industry and the Division of Maternal and Child Health, Health Resources and Services Administration, Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services. The Commission shall then take such action as it deems appropriate.
[38 FR 34729, Dec. 18, 1973, as amended at 51 FR 10, Jan. 2, 1986; 52 FR 406, Jan. 6, 1987]
PARTS 1751-1799 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
16 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
16 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter II
1112.15 (b)(49) added; eff. 7-6-21
40112
1224 Authority citation revised
10568
1224.2 Revised
10568
1224.2 Correction: amended
40876
1225 Authority citation revised
30608
1225.2 Revised
30608
1225.2 Correction: amended
40876
1225.2 Regulation at 85 FR 30608 eff. date delayed to 1-1-21
46000
1228 Authority citation revised
21770
1228.2 Revised
21770
1228.2 Correction: (a) amended
40877
1232 Authority citation revised
18114
1232.2 Revised
18114
1232.2 Correction: amended
40877
1239 Added; eff. 7-6-21
40112
1253 Added
33020
1450.3 Regulation at 84 FR 24027 eff. date delayed to 5-24-21
58263
2021
16 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter II
1015.1 (c) amended; (d) added
7503
1015.2 Revised
7503
1015.3 (a), (d), and (e) amended
7503
1015.4 Revised
7503
1015.5 (a) through (d), (f), (g) introductory text, (3) through (5), and (h) revised
7503
1015.6 (a), (b) introductory text, and (c) amended; (b)(4) revised
7504
1015.7 Heading, (a) through (e), and (g) revised
7504
1015.9 (a) and (e) through (g) revised; (h) and (i) added
7505
1015.20 (a) amended
7507
1107.21 (d)(1) amended; (g) revised
22866
1107.26 (a)(3)(iii) amended
22866
1112.3 Amended
22866
1112.13 (a)(2)(i)(A) amended; (i) revised
22866
1112.15 (b)(43) revised
26658
1112.15 (b)(46) added; eff. 6-23-22
33071
1112.43 (a)(3) amended
22866
1130.2 (a)(13) revised
26658
1130.2 (a)(12) revised; eff. 6-23-22
33071
1223 Authority citation revised
4967
1223.2 Revised
4967
1223.2 Revised; eff. 1-29-22
59612
1227.2 Revised; eff. 2-15-22
64349
1231 Authority citation revised
17302
1231.2 Revised
17302
1232 Revised
26658
1236 Added; eff. 6-23-22
33071
1239 Authority citation revised
53538
1239.2 Revised; eff. 1-2-22
53538
1632.4 (a)(2) revised
32764
1640 Added
18443
2022
16 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter II
1112.15 (b)(50) added
8673
1112.15 (b)(52) added
57789
1112.15 (b)(54) added; eff. 5-24-23
72659
1112.15 (b)(53) added; eff. 5-30-23
73189
1120.2 (f) and (g) added
72886
1120.3 (e) and (f) added
72886
1120.4 (d) added
72887
1130.2 (a)(16) and (a)(17) revised; (a)(18) added
8673
1216 Authority citation revised
73245
1216.2 Revised; eff. 2-25-23
73245
1223.2 Revised
57394
1225.2 CFR correction: Amended
32988
1228.2 Revised
50934
1229.2 Revised; incorporation by reference
54366
1230.2 Revised
53662
1231.2 Revised
42636
1234.2 Revised
37732
1235 Authority citation revised
24417
1235.2 Revised
24417
1239.2 Revised; eff. 1-21-23
68036
1241 Added
8673
1241.2 Correction: (a) amended
41060
1260 Added; eff. 5-30-23
73189
1261 Added; eff. 5-24-23
72659
1262 Added
57789
1307 Notification
16635, 74311
1460 Authority citation revised
71247
1460.2 Revised
71247
1460.3 Revised
71247
2023
16 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter II
Chapter II Determination
2206
1112.15 (b)(55) added
65295
1220 Authority citation revised
13691
1220.2 Revised
13691
1222 Authority citation revised
29825
1222.2 Revised
29825
1261 Regulation at 87 FR 72598 eff. date delayed to 9-1-23
28403
Revised
28408
1263 Added
65295
1263.1 (a) and (b) amended; eff. 9-21-24
65303
1263.2 Amended; eff. 9-21-24
65303
1263.4 Added; eff. 9-21-24
65303
1270 Added
46979
1272 Added
30228
1272.5 Heading correctly amended
40086
1309 Added
54879
1310 Added
55559
1461 Added
74346
1610.2 (a) and (p) revised; eff. 4-22-24
73230
1610.4 (a)(2), (b)(2), (c)(2), and Table 1 revised; eff. 4-22-24
73230
1610.5 (a)(2)(ii), (b)(6), and (b)(7) revised; eff. 4-22-24
73231
1610.6 (b)(1)(i)(A), (ii), and (iii) revised; eff. 4-22-24
73231
1610.7 (b) revised; eff. 4-22-24
73231
1610.8 (b) revised; eff. 4-22-24
73233
2024
16 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter II
1112 Authority citation revised
3351
1112.15 (b)(32) introductory text, (ii) introductory text, (C), and (c)(1)(ii) revised
3351
(b)(8) revised
46801
1112.15 (b)(56) added; eff. 4-23-25
85414
(b)(57) added; eff. 5-5-25
87487
1130.2 (a)(1) through (16) and (17) amended; (a)(19) added; eff. 4-23-25
85414
(a)(20) added; eff. 5-5-25
87487
1211 Authority citation revised
18540
1211.11 (b) and (d)(2) revised
18540
1211.12 (a)(4)(i) introductory text, (B), and (b) revised
18540
1215 Authority citation revised; eff. 1-4-25
81828
1215.2 Revised; eff. 1-4-25
81828
1223 Revised
46801
1226 Authority citation revised; eff. 2-22-25
91551
1226.2 Revised; eff. 2-22-25
91551
1242 Added; eff. 4-23-25
85414
1243 Added; eff. 5-5-25
87487
1250 Authority citation revised
3351
1250.2 Revised
3351
1420 Authority citation revised; eff. 1-1-25
4195
1420.1 Revised; eff. 1-1-25
4195
1420.3 (a) revised; eff. 1-1-25
4195
Heading correctly amended; eff. 1-1-25
5760
1461.3 (a) amended
34106
1461.4 (a)(2) revised
34106
1700.14 (a)(10)(xxiv) added
28606
○
