Sec. 13 of the Act of December 22, 1944, 58 Stat. 905.
Administered by the Office of Transportation
92. Transportation services
Sec. 201 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, 7 U.S.C. 1291; Sec. 203(j) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 1622(l); Sec. 104 of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 1704.
[47 FR 25470, June 11, 1982, as amended at 68 FR 51342, Aug. 26, 2003]
Pt. 15c

# PART 15c—NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Sec.
15c.1
Purpose.
15c.2
Definitions.
15c.3
Discrimination prohibited.
15c.4
Assurance and notice requirements.
15c.5
Information requirements.
15c.6
Compliance.
15c.7
Complaints.
15c.8
Prohibition against intimidation and retaliation.
15c.9
Enforcement.
15c.10
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
Appendix A to 7 CFR part 15c—Age Distinctions in Federal Statutes or Regulations Affecting Financial Assistance Administered by the United States Department of Agriculture

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 42 U.S.C. 6101
et seq.

# Source:
79 FR 73192, Dec. 10, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 15c.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to establish the nondiscrimination policy of the USDA on the basis of age in programs and activities funded in whole or in part by USDA, in compliance with the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended (Age Act), and the requirements set by the HHS in its Government-wide regulation at 45 CFR part 90.
§ 15c.2
Definitions.
Action
means any act, activity, policy, rule, standard, or method of administration or use of any policy, rule, standard or method of administration.
Age Act
means The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6101
et seq.
Age
means the number of elapsed years from the date of a person's birth.
Age distinction
means any action using age or an age-related term.
Age-related term
means a word or words that necessarily imply a particular age or range of ages (
e.g.
“children,” “adult,” or “older person”).
Agency
means a major organizational unit of USDA with delegated authorities to deliver programs, activities, benefits, and services.
Agency Head
means the head of any agency within USDA which may hold the title Administrator, Chief, or Director depending on the agency.
Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights
(ASCR) means the civil rights officer for USDA responsible for the performance and oversight of all civil rights functions within USDA, and who retains the authority to delegate civil rights functions to heads of USDA agencies and offices. The ASCR is also responsible for evaluating agency heads on their performance of civil rights functions.
Beneficiary
means a person or group of persons with an entitlement to receive or enjoy the benefits, services, resources, and information from, or to participate in, the activities and programs funded in whole or in part by USDA.
Complainant
means any person or group of persons who files with any USDA agency a complaint that alleges discrimination in a program or activity funded in whole or in part by USDA.
Complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights (OASCR) of the nature and date of the alleged
civil rights violation. The statement must be signed by the complainant(s) or someone authorized to sign on behalf of the complainant(s). The complaint need not be written or signed if submitted in an alternate format to accommodate the complaint filing needs of a person who has Limited English Proficiency, a disability, or other special need. The complaint must be based on one or more prohibited bases.
Compliance Review
means a systematically planned and regularly initiated investigation that assesses and evaluates the civil rights and equal opportunity policies, procedures and practices of a USDA agency or instrumentality to determine compliance with civil rights statutes, regulations, standards, and policies.
Department
(used interchangeably with USDA) means the Department of Agriculture, and includes each of its operating agencies and other organizational units.
Discrimination
means unlawful treatment or denial of benefits, services, terms, conditions, rights, or privileges to a person or persons based on a protected basis, including age.
(1)
Federal Financial Assistance
includes:
(i) Grants and loans of Federal funds;
(ii) The grant or donation of Federal property and interests in property;
(iii) The detail of Federal personnel;
(iv) The sale and lease of, and the permission to use (on other than a casual or transient basis), Federal property, or any interest in such property, or the furnishing of services without consideration or at a nominal consideration, or at a consideration which is reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient, or in recognition of the public interest to be served by such sale, lease or furnishing of services to the recipient; and
(v) Any Federal agreement, arrangement, or other contract which has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance.
(2) Federal financial assistance does not include procurement contracts at market value, contracts of guarantee or insurance, regulated programs, licenses, or programs that provide direct benefits. The complaint must be based on one or more prohibited bases.
HHS
means The United States Department of Health and Human Services.
Normal Operation
means the operation of a program or activity without significant changes that would impair its ability to meet its objectives.
Program or activity
includes all of the operations of:
(1)
State and local governments.
(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or
(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes Federal financial assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government.
(2)
Educational institutions.
(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or
(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system.
(3)
Private organizations.
(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—
(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or
(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation.
(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship.
(4)
Other organizations receiving Federal financial assistance.
Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (r)(1), (2), or (3) of this section; any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance.
Recipient
means any State, political subdivision of any State, or instrumentality of any State or political subdivision (to include the District of Columbia and any United States territories
and possessions), any public or private entity, institution, organization or any of their instrumentalities, or any individual (provided the individual is not the ultimate beneficiary) in any State, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient, for any program or activity, including any successor, assignee, or transferee thereof.
Statutory Objective
means any purpose of a program or activity expressly stated in any Federal statute, State statute, or local statute or ordinance adopted by an elected general purpose legislative body.
§ 15c.3
Discrimination prohibited.
(a)
General.
No person in the United States shall, on the basis of age, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
(b)
Specific discriminatory actions prohibited.
A recipient may not, in any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements use age distinctions or take any other actions which have the effect, on the basis of age, of:
(1) Excluding individuals from, denying them the benefits of, or subjecting them to discrimination under, a program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, or
(2) Denying or limiting individuals in their opportunity to participate in any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
(c)
Specific forms of age discrimination.
The specific forms of age discrimination listed in paragraph (b) of this section do not necessarily constitute a complete list.
(d)
Exceptions to the rules against age discrimination.
(1) A recipient is permitted to take an action, otherwise prohibited by this section, if the action reasonably takes into account age as a factor necessary to the normal operation or the achievement of any statutory objective of a program or activity. An action reasonably takes into account age as a factor necessary to the normal operation or the achievement of any statutory objective of a program or activity, if:
(i) Age is used as a measure or approximation of one or more other characteristics;
(ii) The other characteristic(s) must be measured or approximated in order for the normal operation of the program or activity to continue, or to achieve any statutory objective of the program or activity;
(iii) The other characteristic(s) can be reasonably measured or approximated by the use of age; and
(iv) The other characteristic(s) are impractical to measure directly on an individual basis.
(2) A recipient is permitted to take an action otherwise prohibited by this section that is based on a factor other than age, even though that action may have a disproportionate effect on persons of different ages. An action may be based on a factor other than age only if the factor bears a direct and substantial relationship to the normal operation of the program or activity or to the achievement of a statutory objective.
(3) If a recipient operating a program or activity provides special benefits to the elderly or to children, such use of age distinctions shall be presumed to be necessary to the normal operation of the program or activity, notwithstanding the provisions of this subpart.
(4) Any age distinctions contained in a rule or regulation issued by USDA shall be presumed to be necessary to the achievement of a statutory objective of the program or activity to which the rule or regulation applies, notwithstanding the provisions of this part.
§ 15c.4
Compliance, assurance, and notice requirements.
(a) USDA recipients have primary responsibility to ensure that their programs and activities are in compliance with the Age Act and this regulation and shall take steps to eliminate violations of the Age Act. Each recipient of Federal financial assistance from USDA shall sign a written assurance as specified by the Department that it shall comply with the Age Act and this regulation. Each recipient initially receiving funds from USDA that makes
the funds available to a sub-recipient must notify the sub-recipient of its obligations under the Age Act.
(b) Each recipient shall make necessary information about the Age Act and this regulation available to its beneficiaries in order to inform them about the protections against discrimination provided by the Act and this regulation.
§ 15c.5
Information requirements.
Each recipient shall maintain records in a form and containing information which the agency determines may be necessary to ascertain whether the recipient is complying with the Age Act and this regulation. Each recipient shall provide the agency any information necessary to determine whether the recipient is in compliance with the Age Act and this rule. Each recipient shall also permit reasonable access to the agency of the books, records, accounts, and other facilities and sources of information to the extent necessary to determine whether a recipient is in compliance with the Age Act and this regulation.
§ 15c.6
Compliance reviews.
(a) USDA may conduct compliance reviews or use other similar procedures to review the activities of recipients to determine whether they are complying with the Age Act and this regulation and to investigate and address violations of the Age Act. USDA may conduct these reviews, at any time, even in the absence of a complaint against a recipient. The reviews may be as comprehensive as necessary to determine whether a violation of the Age Act or this regulation has occurred.
(b) If a compliance review indicates a violation of the Age Act or this regulation, USDA shall attempt to achieve voluntary compliance with the Age Act. USDA shall monitor and evaluate a recipient's efforts to remedy a violation to ensure compliance consistent with applicable civil rights requirements until compliance has been achieved. If voluntary compliance cannot be achieved, USDA shall undertake enforcement of the Age Act and this regulation.
§ 15c.7
Complaints.
(a)
Filing of complaints.
Any person who believes he/she or any specific class of individuals has been subject to discrimination by a recipient or believes that the recipient is otherwise in noncompliance with the provisions of the Age Act or this regulation may file a complaint with OASCR. The USDA Program Discrimination Complaint Form may be used to file a complaint.
(b)
Time and place of filing.
All age discrimination complaints alleging discrimination or noncompliance must be filed within 180 days of the last discriminatory act, to be timely. All complaints under this part shall be filed with the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
(c)
Notice of rights and responsibilities.
USDA shall provide notice to the complainant and the recipient of their:
(1) Rights and obligations under complaint procedures including their right to have a representative at all stages of the complaint process;
(2) Rights to contact the agency for information and assistance regarding the complaint resolution process; and
(3) Obligation to participate actively in efforts toward speedy resolution of the complaint.
(d)
Mediation of complaints.
All complaints that allege discrimination based on age shall be mediated in an attempt to resolve disputes at the earliest stage possible. The complainant and the recipient are required to participate in the mediation process. If the complainant and recipient reach a mutually satisfactory resolution of the complaint during the mediation period, they shall reduce the agreement to writing.
(e)
Investigation of complaints.
If the parties are unable to reach a resolution, USDA shall investigate the complaint. During the investigation of the complaint, OASCR or an agency delegated complaint processing authority shall use informal fact finding methods, including joint or separate discussions with the complainant and recipient, to establish the facts and, if possible, settle the complaint on terms that are mutually agreeable to the parties. USDA may seek the assistance of
any involved State agency. If informal resolution efforts are unsuccessful, OASCR shall complete the investigation.
(f)
Final determination.
After a complete investigation, OASCR shall make a final determination as to the merits of the complaint. The complainant shall be notified of the final determination and provided notice of his or her right to file a civil action under the Age Act, 42 U.S.C. 6104(e), and 15c.10 of this part.
(g)
Voluntary compliance.
If OASCR or an agency delegated complaint processing authority finds that age discrimination has occurred, USDA shall attempt to obtain voluntary compliance. The recipient shall take any remedial action which USDA may require to overcome the effects of discrimination. If USDA cannot obtain voluntary compliance, it shall undertake enforcement of the Age Act and this regulation.
§ 15c.8
Prohibition against intimidation or retaliation.
A recipient may not engage in acts of intimidation or retaliation against any person who:
(a) Attempts to assert a right protected by the Age Act; or
(b) Cooperates in any mediation, investigation, hearing, or other part of the agency's investigation, conciliation, and enforcement process.
§ 15c.9
Enforcement.
(a) If USDA finds that a recipient has committed a violation of the Age Act and determines that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained, the Department shall enforce the requirements of the Age Act and this regulation through the termination of a recipient's Federal financial assistance under the program or activity involved where the recipient has violated the Age Act or this regulation. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge.
(1) Any termination under this paragraph (a) shall be limited to the particular recipient and particular program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance or portion thereof found to be in violation of the Age Act or this regulation.
(2) No action under this paragraph (a) may be taken until:
(i) OASCR, or designee, has advised the recipient of its failure to comply with the Age Act and this regulation, and has determined that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained; and
(ii) Thirty days have elapsed after the head of the agency involved has sent a written report of the circumstances and grounds of the action to the committees of the Congress having legislative jurisdiction over the program or activity involved.
(3) An agency may defer granting new Federal financial assistance to a recipient when termination proceedings under this paragraph (a) are initiated.
(b) When an agency withholds funds from a recipient under this regulation, the Agency Head may disburse the withheld funds directly to any public or non-profit private organization or agency, or State or political subdivision of the State. These alternate recipients must demonstrate the ability to comply with this regulation and to achieve the goals of the Federal statute authorizing the Federal financial assistance.
(c) USDA may seek to achieve compliance with the Age Act and this regulation by any other means authorized by law.
§ 15c.10
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
(a) A complainant may file a civil action, in a United States district court for the district in which the recipient is found or transacts business, following the exhaustion of administrative remedies under the Act. Administrative remedies are exhausted if:
(1) 180 days have elapsed since the complainant filed the complaint and the agency has made no finding with regard to the complaint; or
(2) The agency issues any finding in favor of the recipient.
(b) Before commencing the action, the complainant shall give 30 days' notice by registered mail to the Secretary of HHS, the Attorney General of the United States, the head of the
granting USDA agency, and the recipient stating the alleged violation of the Age Act, the relief requested, the court in which the action will be brought, and whether or not attorney's fees are demanded in the event the complainant prevails.
(c) No action shall be brought if the same alleged violation of the Act by the same recipient is the subject of a pending action in any court of the United States. A complainant prevailing in a civil action has the right to be awarded the costs of the action, including reasonable attorney's fees, but that these costs must be demanded in the complaint.
Pt. 15c, App. A

# Appendix A to 7 CFR Part 15c—Age Distinctions in Federal Statutes or Regulations Affecting Financial Assistance Administered by the United States Department of Agriculture
Program
Statute
Section and age distinction
Regulation
Farm Service Agency
Farm Loan Programs
7 U.S.C. 1941 Persons Eligible For Loans
Section 761.2 defines “rural youth” as meaning a person who has reached the age of 10 but has not reached the age of 21 and resides in a rural area or any city or town with a population of 50,000 or fewer people
7 CFR part 761.
Food and Nutrition Service
Senior Farmer's Market Nutrition Program
7 U.S.C. 3007 Senior Farmers' Market Nutrition Program
Section 249.2 defines “senior” as meaning an individual 60 years of age or older, or as defined in § 249.6(a)(1)
Section 249.6(a)(1) establishes categorical eligibility for the Senior Farmers' Market Nutrition Program. The categorical eligibility states that: “participants must be not less than 60 years of age, except that State agencies may exercise the option to deem Native Americans who are 55 years of age or older as categorically eligible for SFMNP benefits. State agencies may, at their discretion, also deem disabled individuals less than 60 years of age who are currently living in housing facilities occupied primarily by older individuals where congregate nutrition services are provided, as categorically eligible to receive SFMNP benefits”
7 CFR part 249.
Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children
42 U.S.C. 1786
Section 246.2 defines “children” as meaning persons who have had their first birthday but have not yet attained their fifth birthday
Section 246.2 defines “infants” as meaning persons under 1 year of age
Section 246.10(e) establishes category and nutritional needs of the participant for each of the seven food packages available under the program. Food Packages I, II, and IV contain age distinctions. (e)(1) Food Package I—Infants birth through 5 months—(i) Participant category served. This food package is designed for issuance to infant participants from birth through age 5 months who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III. (ii) Infant feeding categories—(A) Birth to one month. Three infant feeding options are available during the first month after birth(B) . . . One through 5 months. Three infant feeding options are available from 1 month through 5 months . . . (2) Food Package II—Infants 6 through 11 months—(i) Participant category served. This food package is designed for issuance to infant participants from 6 through 11 months of age . . . (4) Food Package IV—Children 1 through 4 years—(i) Participant category served. This food package is designed for issuance to participants 1 through 4 years of age
7 CFR part 246.
Commodity Supplemental Food Program
Sec. 5, Pub. L. 93-86, 87 Stat. 249, as added by Sec. 1304(b)(2), Pub. L. 95-113, 91 Stat. 980 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 1335, Pub. L. 97-98, 95 Stat. 1293 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 209, Pub. L. 98-8, 97 Stat. 35 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 2(8), Pub. L. 98-92, 97 Stat. 611 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 1562, Pub. L. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1590 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 101(k), Pub. L. 100-202; sec. 1771(a), Pub. L. 101-624, 101 Stat. 3806 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec 402(a), Pub. L. 104-127, 110 Stat. 1028 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 4201, Pub. L. 107-171, 116 Stat. 134 (7 U.S.C. 7901 note); sec. 4221, Pub. L. 110-246, 122 Stat. 1886 (7 U.S.C. 612c note)
Section 247.1 defines “children” as meaning persons who are at least 1 year of age but have not reached their sixth birthday
Section 247.1 defines “elderly persons” as meaning persons at least 60 years of age
Section 247.1 defines “infants” as meaning persons under 1 year of age
7 CFR part 247.
Food Stamp and Food Distribution Program
7 U.S.C. 2011-2036
Section 271.2 defines “elderly or disabled member” as meaning a member of a household who: (1) Is 60 years of age or older
7 CFR part 271
Section 271.2 defines “Thrifty food plan” as meaning the diet required to feed a family of four persons consisting of a man and a woman 20 through 50, a child 6 through 8, and a child 9 through 11 years of age, determined in accordance with the Secretary's calculations
7 CFR part 273
Section 273.1 defined “Elderly and disabled persons” as meaning an otherwise eligible member of a household who is 60 years of age or older and is unable to purchase and prepare meals because he or she suffers from a disability considered permanent under the Social Security Act or a non-disease-related, severe, permanent disability may be considered
Section 273.1(b) outlines special household requirements. (b) Special household requirements—(1) Required household combinations. The following individuals who live with others must be considered as customarily purchasing food and preparing meals with the others, even if they do not do so, and thus must be included in the same household, unless otherwise specified.(i) Spouses; (ii) A person under 22 years of age who is living with his or her natural or adoptive parent(s) or step-parent(s); and (iii) A child (other than a foster child) under 18 years of age who lives with and is under the parental control of a household member other than his or her parent. A child must be considered to be under parental control for purposes of this provision if he or she is financially or otherwise dependent on a member of the household, unless State law defines such a person as an adult
Section 273.1(d) outlines head of household requirements. When designating the head of household, the State agency shall allow the household to select an adult parent of children (of any age) living in the household, or an adult who has parental control over children (under 18 years of age) living in the household, as the head of household provided that all adult household members agree to the selection
Section 273.4(a)(4)(iii) outlines household members meeting citizenship or alien status requirements. An unmarried dependent child of such Hmong or Highland Laotian who is under the age of 18 or if a full-time student under the age of 22; an unmarried child under the age of 18 or if a full time student under the age of 22 of such a deceased Hmong or Highland Laotian provided the child was dependent upon him or her at the time of his or her death; or an unmarried disabled child age 18 or older if the child was disabled and dependent on the person prior to the child's 18th birthday. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(4)(iii), child means the legally adopted or biological child of the person described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section,
Section 273.4(a)(5)(ii) outlines household members meeting citizenship or alien status requirements which includes an alien who has been subjected to a severe form of trafficking in persons and who is under the age of 18, to the same extent as an alien who is admitted to the United States as a refugee under Section 207 of the INA;
Section 273.4(a)(5)(iii) outlines household members meeting citizenship or alien status requirements which includes the spouse, child, parent or unmarried minor sibling of a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons under 21 years of age, and who has received a derivative T visa, to the same extent as an alien who is admitted to the United States as a refugee under Section 207 of the INA
Section 273.4(a)(5)(iv) outlines household members meeting citizenship or alien status requirements which includes the spouse or child of a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons 21 years of age or older, and who has received a derivative T visa, to the same extent as an alien who is admitted to the United States as a refugee under Section 207 of the INA
Section 273.4(a)(6)(ii)(A) outlines the criteria for a qualified alien which includes an alien age 18 or older lawfully admitted for permanent residence under the INA who has 40 qualifying quarters as determined under Title II of the SSA, including qualifying quarters of work not covered by Title II of the SSA, based on the sum of: quarters the alien worked; quarters credited from the work of a parent of the alien before the alien became 18 (including quarters worked before the alien was born or adopted); and quarters credited from the work of a spouse of the alien during their marriage if they are still married or the spouse is deceased
Section 273.4(a)(6)(ii)(G)(3) outlines the criteria for a qualified alien with military connections which includes the spouse and unmarried dependent children of a person described in paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(G)(1) or (2) of this section, including the spouse of a deceased veteran, provided the marriage fulfilled the requirements of 38 U.S.C. 1304, and the spouse has not remarried. An unmarried dependent child for purposes of this paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(G)(3) is: a child who is under the age of 18 or, if a full-time student, under the age of 22; such unmarried dependent child of a deceased veteran provided such child was dependent upon the veteran at the time of the veteran's death; or an unmarried disabled child age 18 or older if the child was disabled and dependent on the veteran prior to the child's 18th birthday. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(G)(3), child means the legally adopted or biological child of the person described in paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(G)(1) or (2) of this section
Section 273.4(a)(6)(ii)(I) outlines the criteria for a qualified alien which includes an individual who on August 22, 1996, was lawfully residing in the U.S., and was born on or before August 22, 1931
Section 273.4(a)(6)(ii)(J) outlines the criteria for a qualified alien which includes an individual who is under 18 years of age
Section 273.4(a)(6)(iii)(A) outlines qualified aliens that must be in a qualified status for 5 years before being eligible to receive food stamps which includes an alien age 18 or older lawfully admitted for permanent residence under the INA
Section 273.4(c)(3)(vi) outlines exempt aliens which includes a sponsored alien child under 18 years of age of a sponsored alien
Section 273.4(c)(3)(vii) ) outlines exempt aliens which includes a citizen child under age 18 of a sponsored alien
Section 273.5 (b)(1) outlines criteria for student eligibility for the program which includes be age 17 or younger or age 50 or older
Section 273.5(b)(8) outlines criteria for student eligibility for the program which includes a person who is responsible for the care of a dependent household member under the age of 6
Section 273.5(b)(9) outlines criteria for student eligibility for the program which includes a person who is responsible for the care of a dependent household member who has reached the age of 6 but is under age 12
Section 273.5(b)(10) outlines criteria for student eligibility for the program which includes a single parent enrolled in an institution of higher education on a full-time basis (as determined by the institution) and be responsible for the care of a dependent child under age 12
Section 273.5(b)(4) states that if the household is unable to provide an SSN or proof of application for an SSN at its next recertification within 6 months following the baby's birth, the State agency shall determine if the good cause provisions of paragraph (d) of this section are applicable
Section 273.7(b)(1)(i) outlines exemptions from work requirements which includes a person younger than 16 years of age or a person 60 years of age or older and a person age 16 or 17 who is not the head of a household or who is attending school, or is enrolled in an employment training program, on at least a half-time basis, is also exempt. If the person turns 16 (or 18 under the preceding sentence) during a certification period, the State agency must register the person as part of the next scheduled recertification process, unless the person qualifies for another exemption
Section 273.9(b)(1)(v) defines income which includes the phrase this provision does not apply to household members under 19 years of age who are under the parental control of another adult member, regardless of school attendance and/or enrollment
Section 273.9(d)(4) outlines income deduction which include dependent care stating the maximum monthly dependent care deduction amount households shall be granted under this provision is $200 a month for each dependent child under two (2) years of age and $175 a month for each other dependent
Section 273.10(e)(2)(i)(A) outlines eligibility benefits states households which contain an elderly or disabled member as defined in § 271.2
Section 273.10(e)(2)(i)(B) outlines eligibility benefits which states in addition to meeting the net income eligibility standards, households which do not contain an elderly or disabled member shall have their gross income, as calculated in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(i)(A) of this section, compared to the gross monthly income standards defined in § 273.9(a)(1)
Section 273.10(e)(2)(i)(D) outlines eligibility benefits which states if a household contains a member who is 59 years old on the date of application, but who will become 60 before the end of the month of application, the State agency shall determine the household's eligibility in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section
Section 273.24(c)(1) outlines exceptions for when the time limit does not apply to an individual which include a person under 18 or 50 years of age or older
Section 273.24(c)(3) outlines exceptions for when the time limit does not apply to an individual which include a parent (natural, adoptive, or step) of a household member under age 18, even if the household member who is under 18 is not himself eligible for food stamps
Section 273.24(c)(4) outlines exceptions for when the time limit does not apply to an individual which include a person residing in a household where a household member is under age 18, even if the household member who is under 18 is not himself eligible for food stamps
National School Lunch Program
42 U.S.C. 1751-1760, 1779
Section 210.2 defines “Child” as meaning a (a) a student of high school grade or under as determined by the State educational agency, who is enrolled in an educational unit of high school grade or under as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of the definition of “School,” including students who are mentally or physically disabled as defined by the State and who are participating in a school program established for the mentally or physically disabled; or (b) a person under 21 chronological years of age who is enrolled in an institution or center as described in paragraph (c) of the definition of “School;” or (c) For purposes of reimbursement for meal supplements served in afterschool care programs, an individual enrolled in an afterschool care program operated by an eligible school who is 12 years of age or under, or in the case of children of migrant workers and children with disabilities, not more than 15 years of age
Section 12(d) defines “Child” as meaning an individual, regardless of age, who—(i) is determined by a State educational agency, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary, to have one or more disabilities; and (ii) is attending any institution, as defined in section 17(a), or a nonresidential public or nonprofit private school of high school grade or under, for the purpose of participating in a school program established for individuals with disabilities
7 CFR part 210.
School Breakfast Program
42 U.S.C. 1773, 1779
Section 220.2 defines “Child” as meaning a (1) A student of high school grade or under as determined by the State educational agency, who is enrolled in an educational unit of high school grade or under as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of the definition of “School”, including students who are mentally or physically disabled as defined by the State and who are participating in a school program established for the mentally or physically disabled; or (2) a person under 21 chronological years of age who is enrolled in an institution or center as described in paragraph (3) of the definition of School in this section
7 CFR part 220.
Child and Adult Care Food Program
42 U.S.C. 1766
Section 1766 outlines that reimbursement may be provided under this section only for supplements served to school children who are not more than 18 years of age, except that the age limitation provided by this subsection shall not apply to a child
7 CFR part 226.
Section 1766(a)(3) and 7 CFR 226.2 outlines that reimbursement are permitted for meals served to children through the age of 12, children of migrant workers through the age of 15, and persons with disabilities, in child care centers and day care homes
Section 1766(o)(1) and 7 CFR 226.2 outlines that adult day care centers receive reimbursement for meals served to enrolled adults who are functionally impaired or age 60 and older
Section 1766(t)(5); and 7 CFR 226.2 outlines that reimbursement are permitted for emergency shelters for up to three meals served each day to residents age 18 and younger
Section 1766(r) and 7 CFR 226.17a(c) outlines that reimbursement are permitted in at-risk afterschool care programs for meals served during the regular school year to children through the age of 18
Summer Food Service Program
42 U.S.C. 1761
Section 1761(a)(1)(B) and 7 CFR 225.2 outlines that Children age 18 and under may receive meals through SFSP. A person 19 years of age and over who has a mental or physical disability (as determined by a State of local educational agency) and who participates during the school year in a public or private non-profit school program (established for the mentally or physically disabled) is also eligible to receive meals. In certain circumstances, pregnant women who receive Early Head Start services are also eligible to receive meals through SFSP if they are age 18 or under. To establish eligibility, prospective mothers must be enrolled in Early Head Start and be eligible to receive school meals through the NSLP or another child nutrition program
7 CFR part 225.
Forest Service
National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass
16 U.S.C. 6808h
Section 6808h(b)(1) AGE DISCOUNT.—The Secretary shall make the National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass available, at a cost of $10.00, to any United States citizen or person domiciled in the United States who is
62 years of age or older,
if the citizen or person provides adequate proof of such age and such citizenship or residency
None.
Natural Resources Conservation Service
Agriculture Conservation Experienced Services (ACES)
16 U.S.C. 3851
Section 1252 authorizes and directs the Secretary to “establish a conservation experienced services program (in this section referred to as the “ACES Program”) for the purpose of utilizing the talents of individuals who are age 55 or older, but who are not employees of the Department of Agriculture or a State agriculture department, to provide technical services in support of the conservation-related programs and authorities carried out by the Secretary.”
None.
Rural Development
Section 504 Origination Loans and Grants
42 U.S.C. 1474
Section 504 loans and grants are intended to help very low-income owner-occupants in rural areas repair their properties. Section 3550.103 provides that “to be eligible for grant assistance, an application must be 62 years of age or older at the time of the application.”
7 CFR 3550.101
et seq.
Section 515 Rural Rental Housing Loans Program Section 521 Rental Assistance Program
42 U.S.C. 1490a
Under the Direct Multi-Family Housing Loan and Grants, Section 515 Rural Rental Housing program supplies apartments for elderly and disabled people that are equipped with special amenities. USDA provides assistance through the separately appropriated Section 521 Rental Assistance Program, which brings tenants' rent down to 30 percent of their adjusted incomes. Section 3560 defines “elderly person” as “a person who is at least 62 years old.”
7 CFR part 3560.
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
Secondary Education, Two-Year Postsecondary Education, and Agriculture in the K-12 Classroom Challenge Grants Program
7 U.S.C. 3152(j)
Section 1417(j) directs the Secretary to “promote complementary and synergistic linkages among secondary, 2-year postsecondary, and higher education programs in the food and agricultural sciences in order to promote excellence in education and encourage more young Americans to pursue and complete a baccalaureate or higher degree in the food and agricultural sciences.” The Act further empowers the Secretary to make competitive or noncompetitive grants to public secondary schools, institutions of higher education that award an associate's degree, other institutions of higher education, and nonprofit organizations [to] . . . (C) to interest young people in pursuing higher education in order to prepare for scientific and professional careers in the food and agricultural sciences; . . . and (G) to support current agriculture in the classroom programs for grades K-12
None.
Hispanic-Serving Institutions—Competitive Grants Program for Hispanic Agricultural Workers and Youth
7 U.S.C. 3243, as amended
Section 1456(e)(1), as amended by the Agricultural Act of 2014, states that the “Secretary shall establish a competitive grants program . . . (B) to award competitive grants to Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities to provide for training in the food and agricultural sciences of Hispanic agricultural workers and Hispanic youth working in the food and agricultural sciences
7 CFR part 3434.
Girl Scouts of the United States of America, the Boy Scouts of America, the National 4-H Council, and the National FFA Organization
7 U.S.C. 7630, as amended
Section 410(d). Grants for Youth Organizations of the Agricultural, Research, Extension and Education Reform Act of 1998, directs the Secretary to make grants available to the designated youth organizations for the organizations' establishment of pilot projects to expand their programs in rural areas and small towns. Eligibility is limited to the four statutorily-identified youth organizations
None.
Youth Farm Safety and Education Certification (YFSEC)
7 U.S.C. 341,
et seq.;
7 U.S.C. 343(d)
The primary purpose of program is to develop a coordinated approach to agricultural safety and health education for youth. YFSEC Program notices define “youth” as “children or adolescents who have reached their 12th birthday; but not their 20th birthday.”
29 CFR part 570, subpart E-1.
Expanded Food and Nutrition Education Program (EFNEP)
7 U.S.C. 3175
Section 1425 authorizes a national education program to enable low-income individuals and families. Through EFNEP, the Department delivers several “youth” programs that offer education on nutrition, food preparation, and food safety
7 CFR part 15, subpart A.
The Children, Youth, and Families At-Risk Sustainable Community Projects (CYFAR SCP)
7 U.S.C. 341,
et seq.;
7 U.S.C. 343(d)
Section 3(d) of the Smith-Lever Act authorizes the Department to administer the CYFAR SCP. Per Program notices, CYFAR SCP supports community educational programs for at-risk children, youth, and families which are based on locally identified needs, soundly grounded in research, and which lead to the accomplishment of one of four CYFAR National Outcomes; and (2) [t]o integrate CYFAR programming into ongoing Extension programs for children, youth, and families—insuring that at-risk, low income children, youth, and families continue to be part of Extension and/or 4-H programs and have access to resources and educational opportunities
7 CFR part 3015, 7 CFR part 3019, 7 CFR part 3430.
Risk Management Agency
Federal Crop Insurance Program
7 U.S.C. 1501
Per the Crop Insurance Handbook, which provides the official FCIC approved underwriting standards for policies administered by Approved Insurance Providers under the Common Crop Insurance Policy Basic Provisions, 7 CFR part 457 including the Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement, 7 CFR part 402, and the Actual Production History Regulation 7 CFR part 400 Subpart G for the 2014 and succeeding crop years, to be eligible for crop insurance the applicant must be of “legal majority.” Legal majority is defined as “where the individual has reached 18 years old or was conferred legal majority by a court. (1) For individuals less than 18 years of age or where legal majority has not been conferred by a court, to be eligible for crop insurance: (a) A minor must provide evidence an insurable share exists; and (b) a court-appointed guardian or parent must co-sign the application. (2) When a court-appointed guardian or parent cosigns the application: (a) An acknowledgement guaranteeing payment of the annual premium must be include ed with the application; and (b) a written statement describing the farming operation and the insurable share must be provided. (3) For CAT coverage only, a minor who is competent to enter into a binding contract, may insure a crop at CAT level without a cosigner; however, if not competent to enter into a binding contract, a court-appointed guardian or parent must sign the application.”
7 CFR parts 400, 402, 457.
Pt. 15d

# PART 15d—NONDISCRIMINATION IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Sec.
15d.1
Purpose.
15d.2
Definitions.
15d.3
Discrimination prohibited.
15d.4
Compliance.
15d.5
Complaints.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
64 FR 66709, Nov. 30, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 15d.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to set forth the nondiscrimination policy of the United States Department of Agriculture in programs or activities conducted by the Department, including such programs and activities in which the Department or any agency thereof makes available any benefit directly to persons under such programs and activities.
§ 15d.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part, the following definitions apply:
Agency
means a major organizational unit of the Department with delegated authority to deliver programs, activities, benefits, and services. Heads of Agencies receive their delegated authority as prescribed in 7 CFR part 2.
Agency Head Assessment
means the annual Agency Civil Rights Performance Plan and Accomplishment Report conducted by the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights (OASCR). It is an evaluation tool used by OASCR to assess USDA Agency Heads and Staff Office Directors on their civil rights activities and accomplishments to ensure accountability throughout the Department on these issues.
Alternative Dispute Resolution
or
ADR
means any number of conflict resolution procedures in which parties agree to use a third-party neutral to resolve complaints or issues in controversy. ADR methods include, but are not limited to, mediation, facilitation, fact finding, arbitration, use of ombuds, or any combination thereof.
Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights
or
ASCR
means the civil rights officer for USDA responsible for the performance and oversight of all civil rights functions within USDA, and who retains the authority to delegate civil rights functions to heads of USDA agencies and offices. The ASCR is also responsible for evaluating agency heads on their performance of civil rights functions.
Complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes an agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the ASCR of the nature and date of an alleged civil rights violation. The statement must be signed by the complainant(s) or someone authorized to sign on behalf of the complainant(s). To accommodate the needs of people with disabilities, special needs, or who have Limited English Proficiency, a complaint may be in an alternative format.
Compliance report
means a written review of an agency's compliance with civil rights requirements, to be prepared by OASCR and to identify each finding of non-compliance or other civil rights related issue. The review is conducted at the discretion of OASCR or if there has been a formal finding of non-compliance.
Conducted Programs and Activities
means the program services, benefits or resources delivered directly to the public by USDA.
Days
mean calendar days, not business days.
Department
(used interchangeably with USDA) means the Department of Agriculture and includes each of its operating agencies and other organizational units.
Discrimination
means unlawful treatment or denial of benefits, services, rights or privileges to a person or persons because of their race, color, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation, familial status, parental status, income derived from a public assistance program, political beliefs, or gender identity.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the Department whom the Secretary has heretofore delegated, or whom the Secretary may hereafter delegate, the authority to act in his or her stead under the regulations in this part.
[79 FR 41410, July 16, 2014]
§ 15d.3
Discrimination prohibited.
(a) No agency, officer, or employee of the USDA shall, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, disability, age, marital status, family/parental status, income derived from a public assistance program, political beliefs, or gender identity, exclude from participation in, deny the benefits of, or subject to discrimination any person in the United States under any program or activity conducted by the USDA.
(b) No person shall be subjected to reprisal for opposing any practice(s) prohibited by this part, for filing a complaint, or for participating in any other manner in a proceeding under this part.
[79 FR 41411, July 16, 2014]
§ 15d.4
Compliance.
(a)
Compliance program.
OASCR shall evaluate each agency's efforts to comply with this part and shall make recommendations for improving such efforts.
(1) OASCR shall oversee the compliance reviews and evaluations, and issue compliance reports that monitor compliance efforts to ensure that there is equitable and fair treatment in conducted programs.
(2) OASCR shall monitor all settlement agreements pertaining to program complaints for compliance to ensure full implementation and enforcement.
(3) OASCR shall oversee Agency Head Assessments to ensure that Agency Heads are in compliance with civil rights laws and regulations.
(4) OASCR shall monitor all findings of non-compliance to ensure that compliance is achieved.
(5) OASCR shall require agencies to collect the race, ethnicity and gender of applicants and program participants, who choose to provide such information on a voluntary basis, in USDA-conducted programs, for purposes of civil rights compliance oversight, and evaluation.
(b)
Agency data collection and compliance reports.
(1) Each Agency shall, for civil rights compliance, collect, maintain and annually compile data on all program applicants and participants in conducted programs by county and State, including but not limited to, application and participation rate data regarding socially disadvantaged and limited resources applicants and participants. At a minimum, the data should include:
(i) Numbers of applicants and participants by race, ethnicity, and gender, subject to appropriate privacy protections, as determined by the Secretary and in accordance with law; and
(ii) The application and participation rate, by race, ethnicity, and gender, as a percentage of the total participation rate.
(2) Each Agency shall submit to the OASCR timely, complete and accurate program application and participation reports containing the information described in § 15d.4(b)(1), on an annual basis, and upon the request of the OASCR independently of the annual requirement.
(c)
Complaint reporting compliance.
OASCR shall ensure compliance with mandated complaint reporting requirements, such as those required by section 14006 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-246).
[79 FR 41411, July 16, 2014]
§ 15d.5
Complaints.
(a) Any person who believes that he or she (or any specific class of individuals) has been, or is being, subjected to practices prohibited by this part may file (or file through an authorized representative) a written complaint alleging such discrimination. The written complaint must be filed within 180 calendar days from the date the person knew or reasonably should have known of the alleged discrimination, unless the time is extended for good cause by the ASCR or designee. Any person who complains of discrimination under this part in any fashion shall be advised of the right to file a complaint as herein provided.
(b) All complaints under this part should be filed with the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, 1400 Independence Ave. SW., U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, who will investigate the complaints. The ASCR will make final determinations as to the merits of complaints under this part and as to the corrective actions required to resolve program complaints. The complainant will be notified of the final determination on the complaint.
(c) Any complaint filed under this part alleging discrimination on the basis of disability will be processed under 7 CFR part 15e.
(d) For complaints OASCR deems appropriate for ADR, OASCR shall offer ADR services to complainants.
[79 FR 41411, July 16, 2014]
Pt. 15e

# PART 15e—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Sec.
15e.101
Purpose.
15e.102
Application.
15e.103
Definitions.
15e.104-15e.109
[Reserved]
15e.110
Self-evaluation.
15e.111
Notice.
15e.112-15e.129
[Reserved]
15e.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
15e.131-15e.139
[Reserved]
15e.140
Employment.
15e.141-15e.148
[Reserved]
15e.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
15e.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
15e.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
15e.152-15e.159
[Reserved]
15e.160
Communications.
15e.161-15e.169
[Reserved]
15e.170
Compliance procedures
15e.171-15e.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
58 FR 57697, 57699, Oct. 26, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 15e.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to effectuate section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 15e.102
Application.
This part (§§ 15e.101-15e.170) applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency, except for programs or activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals with handicaps in the United States.
§ 15e.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings, and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TTD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Individual with handicaps
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term “physical or mental impairment” includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, HIV disease (whether symptomatic or asymptomatic), and drug addiction and alcoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
include functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Qualified individual with handicaps
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, an individual with handicaps who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency;
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified handicapped person
as that term is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1614.203(a)(6), which is made applicable to this part by § 15e.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended. As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 15e.104-15e.109
[Reserved]
§ 15e.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by November 28, 1994, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, for at least three years following completion of the
self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified; and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 15e.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this part.
§§ 15e.112-15e.129
[Reserved]
§ 15e.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified individual with handicaps an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified individual with handicaps with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in according equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to individuals with handicaps or to any class of individuals with handicaps than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with handicaps with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards;
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified individual with handicaps in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are no separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude individuals with handicaps from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified
individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to individuals with handicaps or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with handicaps from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of individuals with handicaps is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with handicaps.
§§ 15e.131-15e.139
[Reserved]
§ 15e.140
Employment.
No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 15e.141-15e.148
[Reserved]
§ 15e.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 15e.150, no qualified individual with handicaps shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with handicaps, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 15e.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 15e.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings,
shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with handicaps in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 15e.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to individuals with handicaps. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 15e.150(a)(2) or (a)(3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide individuals with handicaps into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by January 24, 1994, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by November 26, 1996, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by May 26, 1994, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with handicaps;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 15e.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 15e.152-15e.159
[Reserved]
§ 15e.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with handicaps.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices
for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 15e.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 15e.161-15e.169
[Reserved]
§ 15e.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs and activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Director, Office of Advocacy and Enterprise, shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section and shall make the determinations described in paragraph (g) of this section. Complaints may be sent to Office of Advocacy and Enterprise, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate Government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 15e.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[58 FR 57697, 57699, Oct. 26, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 57697, Oct. 26, 1993]
§§ 15e.171-15e.999
[Reserved]
Pt. 15f

# PART 15f—ADJUDICATIONS UNDER SECTION 741

# Subpart A—What Is the Purpose of These Regulations and to Whom and to What Programs Do They Apply?
Sec.
15f.1
What is the purpose of these regulations?
15f.2
Who may use these procedures for processing their discrimination complaint with USDA?
15f.3
If I want to use these procedures to have USDA consider my complaint, how long will it take for USDA to make a decision?
15f.4
What do certain words and phrases in these regulations mean?

# Subpart B—I Filed a Complaint With USDA Prior to July 1, 1997, How Do I Request That USDA Consider My Complaint Using These Procedures?
15f.5
How do I request that USDA consider my complaint under these procedures?
15f.6
What must I say or include in my Section 741 Complaint Request?
15f.7
May I be represented by an attorney?

# Subpart C—What Happens After I Send in My Request? May I Seek To Resolve My Complaint Informally With OCR?
15f.8
What does the Docketing Clerk do with my request?
15f.9
What will the Director do to settle my Section 741 Complaint Request when it is received?
15f.10
What if I do not want the Director to review my Section 741 Complaint Request and I want to proceed directly to a hearing?

# Subpart D—If I Request a Hearing, What Will Happen? How Will the Hearing Be Conducted?
15f.11
Where must I file a hearing request and what happens to it?
15f.12
Am I entitled to a hearing in all circumstances?
15f.13
What is the function of the ALJ and who may communicate with him?
15f.14
What happens after I file a request for a hearing?
15f.15
What Happens after the Docketing Clerk notifies all parties?
15f.16
Although I request a hearing, may I request the ALJ to issue a decision without a hearing?
15f.17
What happens before the hearing?
15f.18
May I depose potential witnesses?
15f.19
Other than myself, OCR, and the agency, may any other interested party participate in the proceeding?
15f.20
May I subpoena witnesses to the hearing?
15f.21
What rules are applicable to the actual conduct of the hearing?
15f.22
What happens after the hearing?
15f.23
What will constitute the record for the final determination?
15f.24
When and in what form will a final determination be made on my complaint by USDA?
15f.25
Will USDA pay my attorneys fees if I win?

# Subpart E—What if I Do Not Agree With the Final Determination by USDA?
15f.26
May I seek judicial review of the final determination?

# Subpart F—How Do I Count Days for Purposes of Deadlines and What Happens if I Miss a Deadline in These Rules?
15f.27
When is something considered “filed” as required by these rules and to whom do I need to give copies of what I file?
15f.28
When I or someone else has to do something within a certain number of
days, how will USDA or the ALJ count the days?
15f.29
May I request an extension of a deadline or may I get relief for missing a deadline in these rules?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; section 101(a) of Pub. L. 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681; Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.).

# Source:
63 FR 67394, Dec. 4, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—What Is the Purpose of These Regulations and to Whom and to What Programs Do They Apply?
§ 15f.1
What is the purpose of these regulations?
These regulations provide the rights of complainants and the procedures for the processing of certain nonemployment related complaints alleging discrimination by USDA that were filed with USDA prior to July 1, 1997, as authorized under section 741(b) of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, enacted in Division A, section 101(a) of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999, Pub. L. 105-277.
§ 15f.2
Who may use these procedures for processing their discrimination complaint with USDA?
A person may use these procedures if he or she filed a nonemployment related discrimination complaint with USDA prior to July 1, 1997, that alleged discrimination by USDA at any time during the period beginning January 1, 1981 and ending December 31, 1996 :
(a) In violation of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
) in administering—
(1) A farm ownership, farm operating, or emergency loan funded from the Agricultural Credit Insurance Program Account; or
(2) A housing program established under title V of the Housing Act of 1949; or
(b) In the administration of a commodity program or a disaster assistance program.
§ 15f.3
If I want to use these procedures to have USDA consider my complaint, how long will it take for USDA to make a decision?
To the maximum extent practicable, a final determination under these procedures will be issued within 180 days after you have filed your request.
§ 15f.4
What do certain words and phrases in these regulations mean?
Agency
means the USDA agency, office, or committee that the complainant alleges has discriminated against the complainant in the administration of a covered program.
ALJ
means an Administrative Law Judge appointed pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 557(b)(3), 3105) who presides over a hearing if requested by a complainant.
ASCR
means the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights.
Complainant
means a person who requests that USDA consider his or her complaint under the procedures of this part.
Complaint
means a written document filed with USDA by a person alleging discrimination by USDA under a covered program.
Covered program
means:
(1) A farm ownership, farm operating, or emergency loan funded from the Agricultural Credit Insurance Program Account;
(2) A housing program established under title V of the Housing Act of 1949; or
(3) A commodity program or disaster assistance program.
Director
means the Director of USDA, OCR, or his or her subordinate designee.
Docketing clerk
means an employee of the USDA Office of Civil Rights, designated to serve in this capacity.
Eligible complaint
means a complaint that was filed with the Department of Agriculture before July 1, 1997, and that alleges discrimination occurring at any time during the period beginning on January 1, 1981 and ending December 31, 1996—
(1) In violation of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
) in administering—
(i) A farm ownership, farm operating, or emergency loan funded from the Agricultural Credit Insurance Program Account; or
(ii) A housing program established under title V of the Housing Act of 1949; or
(2) In the administration of a commodity program or a disaster assistance program.
Ex parte communication
means a prohibited communication between a party to a proceeding and the ALJ outside of the presence of, or without notice to, the other parties to the proceeding, as explained more fully in § 15f.13.
Final determination
means the final USDA decision made on your complaint under these rules.
Hearing
means a proceeding in which you may present your case before the ALJ.
Interested party
means a person, other than the complainant, OCR, and the agency, who has an interest in a proceeding under these rules and is admitted to the proceeding under § 15f.20.
OCR
means the USDA Office of Civil Rights.
Party or parties
means the complainant, OCR, the agency, or a person admitted to the proceeding as an interested party.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
Section 741
means section 741 of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, enacted in Division A, section 101(a) of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999, Pub. L. 105-277.
Section 741 Complaint Request (or Request)
means a request by a complainant to consider his complaint under these rules.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
[63 FR 67394, Dec. 4, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 27449, May 20, 2003]

# Subpart B—I Filed a Complaint With USDA Prior to July 1, 1997, How Do I Request That USDA Consider My Complaint Using These Procedures?
§ 15f.5
How do I request that USDA consider my complaint under these procedures?
In order for USDA to consider your complaint under these procedures, a Section 741 Complaint Request must be docketed with the Docketing Clerk in the USDA OCR.
(a)
Do I have to file a “Section 741 Complaint Request” if USDA is already working on my complaint? Do I have to file again?
If USDA OCR already reviewed or is working on your complaint, you will receive a notice by March 1, 1999, indicating that your complaint automatically has been docketed as a Section 741 Complaint Request for consideration under these procedures. The notice will provide you with the docket number assigned your Request and will give you further instructions with respect to what options you have or what actions you must take.
(b)
What if USDA is not working on my complaint? If I think USDA has reviewed or is working on my complaint, but do not receive a letter by March 1, 1999, what should I do?
If USDA is not already working on your complaint, or you do not receive a letter from USDA by March 1, 1999, or within 30 days thereafter, you should file a Section 741 Complaint Request with the Docketing Clerk at USDA OCR.
(c)
How long do I have to file my Section 741 Complaint Request?
You have until October 21, 2000 to file your Section 741 Complaint Request. If you did not receive a notice form USDA by October 21, 2000, that your Section 741 Complaint Request had been docketed automatically under paragraph (a) of this section, and you did not file a Section 741 Complaint Request prior to October 21, 2000, under paragraph (b) of this section, then any Section 741 Complaint Request received by USDA after October 21, 2000, will not be accepted.
[63 FR 67394, Dec. 4, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 7412, Feb. 14, 2003]
§ 15f.6
What must I say or include in my Section 741 Complaint Request?
If you must file a Section 741 Complaint Request, it should include a copy of your original complaint, a request in writing that USDA consider the complaint in accordance with these procedures, a statement as to when your complaint was filed with USDA, and any other evidence you consider necessary to prove that your complaint is an eligible complaint suitable for consideration under these procedures.
§ 15f.7
May I be represented by an attorney?
(a) If your Section 741 Complaint Request is automatically docketed as set forth in § 15f.5(a), and you already are represented by counsel of whom you have notified USDA, then this section does not apply.
(b) If you are filing your Section 741 Complaint Request with USDA, and if you are represented by an attorney, your Section 741 Complaint Request should also include an authorization signed by you indicating that the attorney is entitled to represent you on your behalf. If USDA receives such an authorization, all documents in connection with consideration of your complaint under these procedures will be sent to your attorney and not to you.
(c) Once your Section 741 Complaint Request is docketed with USDA, and you afterwards retain an attorney, you should forward an authorization to USDA signed by you indicating that the attorney is entitled to represent you on your behalf. If USDA receives such an authorization, all documents in connection with consideration of your complaint under these procedures will be sent to your attorney and not to you.

# Subpart C—What Happens After I Send in My Section 741 Complaint Request? May I Seek To Resolve My Complaint Informally With OCR?
§ 15f.8
What does the Docketing Clerk do with my Section 741 Complaint Request?
All Section 741 Complaint Requests docketed by the OCR Docketing Clerk will be referred to the Director for an informal review. The Director will determine if the complaint is one that can be resolved informally, and, if so, the Director will seek to resolve the complaint informally with the complainant.
§ 15f.9
What will the Director do to settle my Section 741 Complaint Request when it is received?
The Director will review each Section 741 Complaint Request. If the Director finds that your complaint is an eligible complaint, the Director will: review all documents and evidence submitted by you; review all agency or CR files, if any exist, regarding the circumstances surrounding the alleged discrimination; review any damage claims; and seek any further clarification, if necessary, from either you or the agency. CR also may refer your eligible complaint for a formal investigation by the CR Program Investigation Division or by an outside contractor. Based on his or her review, the Director will either undertake negotiations with you to resolve the complaint; or inform you that CR will not settle the complaint and explain to you your options, including your right to request formal proceedings before an ALJ under subpart D of this part within 30 days of receipt of notice from the Director that CR will not settle the complaint. If the complaint is successfully resolved or settled, the Director will issue a final determination disposing of the matter. If you have received a notice that the Director will not settle the complaint prior to February 14, 2003, you have until 90 days after February 14, 2003 to request formal proceedings under subpart D of this part. Any request for formal proceedings received by USDA after the deadlines set
forth in this section will not be accepted.
[68 FR 7412, Feb. 14, 2003]
§ 15f.10
What if I do not want the Director to review my Section 741 Complaint Request and I want to proceed directly to a hearing?
If you do not want the Director to review your Section 741 Complaint Request, you may request a hearing following the procedures below in subpart D. You may request a hearing at any time during informal review or negotiations with the Director, or at any time during USDA consideration of your Section 741 Complaint Request.

# Subpart D—If I Request a Hearing, What Will Happen? How Will the Hearing Be Conducted?
§ 15f.11
Where must I file a hearing request and what happens to it?
If you desire a hearing, you must file a request for a hearing with the Docketing Clerk, citing the docket number assigned to your Section 741 Complaint Request. When the Docketing Clerk receives your request for a hearing, your Section 741 Complaint Request will be assigned to an ALJ. The Docketing Clerk will send a notice of your hearing request to OCR and the agency, notifying them of the docket number and the assigned ALJ. The Docketing Clerk also will send you a notice of receipt of the hearing request that will inform you of the name of the assigned ALJ.
§ 15f.12
Am I entitled to a hearing in all circumstances?
Under section 741, you have a right to a hearing as part of the process for USDA to render a final determination on your eligible complaint. However, if at any time the ALJ determines that your complaint is not an eligible complaint, he or she may dismiss your complaint with a final determination and USDA review of your complaint will then have been completed. You also are not entitled to a hearing if there are no material issues of fact in dispute between you and USDA. In other words, if the only dispute remaining is a question of law, you will not receive a hearing and the ALJ will make a final determination under § 15f.16.
§ 15f.13
What is the function of the ALJ and who may communicate with him?
(a)
What are the powers of the ALJ?
The ALJ is responsible for conducting a hearing at your request on your Section 741 Complaint Request. He or she will have all powers prescribed in these rules and will make a proposed determination on your complaint. The proposed determination then will become the final determination after 35 days, unless the ASCR reviews the proposed determination.
(b)
What is an ex parte communication?
An
ex parte
communication is a communication by one party to a proceeding with the ALJ outside of the presence of, or without notice to, the other parties to a proceeding.
Ex parte
communications in the proceedings on your complaint are prohibited and will be handled as follows:
(1) The ALJ will not engage in
ex parte
communications regarding the merits of a complaint with any party or with any person having any interest in the proceedings on the complaint, including OCR and any person in an advocacy or investigative capacity, at any time between the assignment of a hearing to him or her and the issuance of a proposed determination. This prohibition does not apply to:
(i) Discussions of procedural matters related to the complaint; or
(ii) Discussions of the merits of the complaint where all parties to the proceeding on the complaint have been given notice and an opportunity to participate.
(2) In the case of a communication described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, a memorandum of any such discussion shall be included in the hearing record.
(3) No party to the proceeding or other interested person shall make or knowingly cause to be made to the ALJ an
ex parte
communication relevant to the merits of the complaint.
(4) If the ALJ receives an
ex parte
communication in violation of this section, the ALJ will place in the written record:
(i) All such written communications;
(ii) Memoranda stating the substance of all such oral communications; and
(iii) All written responses to such communications, and memoranda stating the substance of any oral responses to such communications.
(c) Upon receipt of a communication knowingly made or knowingly caused to be made by a party in violation of this section the ALJ may, to the extent consistent with the interests of justice and the policy underlying these proceedings, require the party or other interested person making the communication to show cause why such party's claim or interest in the complaint should not be dismissed, denied, disregarded, or otherwise adversely affected on account of such violation.
[63 FR 67394, Dec. 4, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 27449, May 20, 2003]
§ 15f.14
What happens after I file a request for a hearing?
Within 20 days after you have filed your request for a hearing, ALJ shall file with the Docketing Clerk a notice stating the time, place, and manner of the hearing. The ALJ will have due regard for the public interest and the convenience and necessity of the parties in determining the time, place, and manner of the hearing. The notice will state whether the hearing will be conducted by telephone, audiovisual telecommunication, or personal attendance of any individual expected to participate in the hearing. The Docketing Clerk will send copies of the notice to the complainant and to all other parties to the proceeding.
§ 15f.15
What happens after the Docketing Clerk notifies all parties?
The first step in this process involves a response to your hearing request by OCR. OCR will turn over its entire file on your complaint to the ALJ. OCR also will file a report with the ALJ stating its position with respect to whether or not your complaint is an eligible complaint, with reasons for its position, as well as stating its position with respect to the merits of your complaint. OCR must turn over its file and make its report on its position on your complaint within 35 days. OCR must provide a copy to you of anything it provides to the ALJ.
§ 15f.16
Although I request a hearing, may I request the ALJ to issue a decision without a hearing?
(a) At any time after the parties have been notified of your hearing request, you may file a request with the ALJ to make a determination based on the written record. With your request, you should file any other arguments or evidence that you wish the ALJ to consider. The agency and OCR will have 35 days after you file your request to file any additional information, arguments, or evidence for the consideration of the ALJ. The ALJ may recommend dismissal of your complaint on the basis of a finding that it is not an eligible complaint; recommend denial of your eligible complaint on the merits; or make a proposed finding of discrimination on your eligible complaint and recommend to award you such relief as would be afforded under the applicable statute or regulation under which the eligible complaint was filed. The ALJ will make a proposed determination on your complaint based on the original complaint, the Section 741 Complaint Request, the OCR report, and any other evidence or written documents filed by the parties. The proposed determination will become the final determination 35 days after it is filed unless you request review of the proposed determination by the ASCR. The ASCR also may review the proposed determination on his or her own initiative. If the ASCR reviews the decision, he or she will allow the parties a reasonable opportunity to file briefs in support of or opposition to the proposed determination, and afterwards will issue a final determination within 35 days after you request review of the proposed determination.
(b) To the maximum extent practicable, a final determination will be made within 180 days of your filing of the Section 741 Complaint Request.
[63 FR 67394, Dec. 4, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 27449, May 20, 2003]
§ 15f.17
What happens before the hearing?
(a)
Do I need to file another answer or pre-hearing brief?
You may file a pre-hearing brief in support of your complaint.
(b)
Will there be a pre-hearing conference?
The ALJ may hold a pre-hearing conference. If such a conference is to be held, the notice of the pre-hearing conference also will contain a notice to the parties of a time and date for the pre-hearing conference. Pre-hearing conferences normally will be held by telephone. Issues that may be addressed at the pre-hearing conference may include: simplification of the issues; the possibility of obtaining stipulations of fact and of the authenticity of documents; limitation of the number of witnesses; exchange of copies of hearing exhibits; negotiation, compromise or settlement of issues; identification of documents of which official notice will be requested; a schedule for completion of the actions decided upon at the conference; and any other matters that may aid and expedite the conclusion of the proceeding. No transcript of the pre-hearing conference will be made but the ALJ will issue a written memorandum summarizing the results of the pre-hearing conference.
(c)
What else may the ALJ ask for before the hearing?
Prior to the hearing, the ALJ may require each of the parties to furnish any or all of the following: an outline of a party's position with respect to the complaint, the facts upon which the party intends to rely, the legal theories upon which the party intends to rely, copies of or a list of the documents and exhibits which the party anticipates on introducing at the hearing, and a list of anticipated witnesses.
§ 15f.18
May I depose potential witnesses?
(a) A party may request an order from the ALJ to take the testimony of any person by deposition upon oral examination or written interrogatories before any officer authorized to administer oaths at the place of examination, for use as evidence. The application for the order must specify the reason and need for taking testimony by deposition.
(b) The time, place, and manner of taking depositions will be as mutually agreed by the parties, or failing agreement, by order of the ALJ.
(c) No testimony taken by depositions will be considered as part of the evidence in the hearing until such testimony is offered and received in evidence at the hearing, and ordinarily it will not be received into evidence if the deponent is present and can testify at the hearing. However, when the deponent is present and can testify, the deposition may be used to contradict or impeach the testimony of the deponent given at the hearing. Where you have requested a final determination by the ALJ based on the written record without a hearing, the ALJ, in his or her discretion, may receive depositions to supplement the record.
(d) Each party will bear its own expenses associated with the taking of any deposition.
§ 15f.19
Other than myself, OCR, and the agency, may any other interested party participate in the proceeding?
In most cases, there will be no parties to a proceeding under these rules, other than the complainant, OCR, and, and if it so desires, the agency. However, if there are circumstances in which additional parties have an interest in the proceeding, such as a bank which participated in a case involving a guaranteed loan, such other interested parties may be permitted to participate in the proceeding at the discretion of the ALJ.
§ 15f.20
May I subpoena witnesses to the hearings?
No. USDA has no statutory authority to subpoena witnesses to testify at the hearing.
§ 15f.21
What rules are applicable to the actual conduct of the hearing?
(a)
Who may appear at the hearing?
You may appear at the hearing in person or through your attorney. OCR or the agency will appear through a designated representative, which may include a USDA attorney. Any person who appears as counsel must conform to the standards of ethical conduct required of practitioners before the courts of the United States.
(b)
What happens if I fail to show up?
If, after having received notice of the
hearing under § 15f.14, you fail to appear at the hearing without good cause, you will have waived your right to a hearing in the proceeding and the ALJ may proceed to issue a final determination based on the written record as provided for under § 15f.16.
(c)
Which party presents its case first at the hearing?
You, as the complainant, will proceed first at the proceeding, unless otherwise determined by the ALJ.
(d)
What kind of evidence will be admitted and how will it be handled?
—(1)
In general.
The hearing will be conducted by the ALJ in the manner he or she determines most likely to obtain the facts relevant to the matter or matters at issue. The ALJ may confine the presentation of facts and evidence to pertinent matters and exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence, information, or questions. Each party will have the opportunity to present oral and documentary evidence, oral testimony of witnesses, and arguments in support of the party's position; controvert evidence relied on by any other party; and question all witnesses. The testimony of witnesses at a hearing will be on oath or affirmation and will be subject to cross-examination. Any evidence may be received by the ALJ without regard to whether that evidence could be admitted in judicial proceedings. Upon a finding of good cause, the ALJ may order that any witness be examined separately and apart from all other witnesses except those who may be parties to the proceeding.
(2)
Objections.
(i) If a party objects to the admission of any evidence or to the limitation of the scope of any examination or cross-examination or to any other ruling of the ALJ, the party must state briefly the grounds of such objection.
(ii) Only objections made before the ALJ may subsequently be relied upon in the proceeding.
(3)
Depositions.
The deposition of any witness will be admitted in the manner provided in and subject to the provisions of § 15f.18(c) of these rules.
(4)
Exhibits.
Unless the ALJ finds that the furnishing of copies is impracticable, two copies of each exhibit must be filed with the ALJ. A party submitting an exhibit must provide every other party (except interested parties) a copy of the exhibit one week before the hearing. A true copy of an exhibit may be substituted for the original.
(5)
Official records or documents.
An official government record or document or entry therein, if admissible for any purpose, will be admissible in evidence without the production of the person who made or prepared the same, and will be
prima facie
evidence of the relevant facts stated therein. Such record or document must be evidenced by an official publication thereof or a copy certified by a person having legal authority to make such certification.
(6)
Official notice.
Official notice will be taken of such matters as are judicially noted by the courts of the United States and of any other matter of technical, scientific, or commercial fact of established character if the parties are given adequate notice of matters so noticed, and the parties will be given adequate opportunity to show that such facts are erroneously noticed.
(7)
Offer of proof.
Whenever evidence is excluded by the ALJ, the party offering such evidence may make an offer of proof, which must be included in the transcript. The offer of proof should consist of a brief statement describing the evidence excluded. If the evidence consists of a brief oral statement, it must be included in the transcript in its entirety. If the evidence consists of an exhibit, it must be marked for identification and inserted in the hearing record.
(8)
Interlocutory review.
Interlocutory review of rulings by the ALJ will not be permitted.
(9)
Transcript or recording.
(i) Hearings to be conducted by telephone will be recorded verbatim by electronic recording device. Hearings conducted by audio-visual telecommunication or by the personal attendance of parties and witnesses must be transcribed, unless the ALJ finds that recording the hearing verbatim would expedite the proceeding and the ALJ orders the hearing to be recorded verbatim. The ALJ must certify that to the best of his or her knowledge and belief any recording made pursuant to this paragraph with exhibits that were accepted into evidence is the record of the hearing.
(ii) If a hearing is recorded verbatim, a party requests the transcript of a hearing or part of a hearing, and the ALJ determines that the disposition of the proceeding would be expedited by a transcript of the hearing or part of a hearing, the ALJ shall order the verbatim transcription of the recording as requested by the party.
(iii) The costs of transcription or verbatim recordings will be paid for by USDA and charged to the agency whose action gave rise to the complaint at issue. Copies of recordings or transcripts of hearings will be made available to any party at the actual cost of duplication.
§ 15f.22
What happens after the hearing?
The ALJ will fix a reasonable time for filing posthearing briefs, proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law, and if permitted, reply briefs. Briefs should include a summary of evidence relied upon together with references to exhibit numbers and citations to the transcript and authorities relied upon. Briefs must be filed with the Docketing Clerk with copies to all parties.
§ 15f.23
What will constitute the record for the final determination?
The original complaint, the Section 741 Complaint Request, the OCR report, the agency answer, the transcript of testimony, exhibits, affidavits, depositions, briefs, memoranda of law, and all pleadings, motions, papers, and requests filed in the proceeding, including rulings, and the proposed determination by an ALJ (if applicable) shall constitute the exclusive record for the final determination.
§ 15f.24
When and in what form will a final determination be made on my complaint by USDA?
(a) The ALJ will make a proposed determination orally at the close of a hearing, or in writing within 35 days. The ALJ may recommend dismissal of your complaint on the basis of a finding that it is not an eligible complaint; recommend denial of your eligible complaint on the merits; or make a proposed finding of discrimination on your eligible complaint and recommend to award you such relief as would be afforded under the applicable statute or regulation under which the eligible complaint was filed. The proposed determination will become the final determination 35 days after it is made, unless you request review of the proposed determination by the ASCR. The ASCR also may review the proposed determination on his or her own initiative. If the ASCR reviews the proposed determination, he or she will allow the parties a reasonable opportunity to file briefs in support or opposition to the proposed determination, and afterwards file a final determination within 35 days after you request review of the proposed determination.
(b) To the maximum extent practicable, a final determination will be filed within 180 days after you filed your Section 741 Complaint Request.
[63 FR 67394, Dec. 4, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 27449, May 20, 2003]
§ 15f.25
Will USDA pay my attorneys fees if I win?
If you prevail on your eligible complaint, either in whole or in part, after a proceeding before an ALJ under the procedures in this subpart, you may be eligible for an award of attorneys fees as a prevailing party under the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA), 5 U.S.C. 504. To get an EAJA award, you must file an application for such fees with the ALJ within 30 days after the final determination is made. Instructions for filing an EAJA application and obtaining an EAJA award are contained in 7 CFR part 1, subpart J. The ALJ must follow those rules, and not these Section 741 Complaint Request rules, in making any EAJA award.

# Subpart E—What if I Do Not Agree With the Final Determination by USDA?
§ 15f.26
May I seek judicial review of the final determination?
Section 741 provides that you have at least 180 days after a final determination denying your eligible complaint under these rules to seek judicial review in the United States Court of Federal Claims or a United States District Court of competent jurisdiction.

# Subpart F—How Do I Count Days for Purposes of Deadlines and What Happens if I Miss a Deadline in These Rules?
§ 15f.27
When is something considered “filed” as required by these rules and to whom do I need to give copies of what I file?
A document, or other item, that must be “filed” under these rules is considered filed when postmarked or when it is received and date-stamped by the Docketing Clerk.
§ 15f.28
When I or someone else has to do something within a certain number of days, how will USDA or the ALJ count the days?
Unless otherwise specifically noted, a “day” refers to a calendar day and a document that must be filed by a certain date must either be postmarked on that date or received by the Docketing Clerk on that date. For documents that must be or are “filed” under these regulations, you count the number of days after filing starting with the day after the filing date as day one. For other time periods, you calculate the time period by counting the day after receipt by the party as day one. If the last day of a time period expires on a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the last day of the time period will expire on the next business day.
§ 15f.29
May I request an extension of a deadline or may I get relief for missing a deadline in these rules?
You may request that the ALJ extend a deadline in these rules, or afford you relief for missing a deadline, which he or she may do, consistent with the principles of sovereign immunity, the terms of any applicable statute, these rules, and the necessity of expeditious completion of the public business. It is the intent of USDA that the time deadlines expressed in these regulations be construed equitably to ensure resolution of eligible complaints, to the extent permitted by law.
Pt. 16

# PART 16—EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
Sec.
16.1
Purpose and applicability.
16.2
Definitions.
16.3
Faith-based organizations and Federal financial assistance.
16.4
Responsibilities of participating organizations.
16.5
Effect on State and local funds.
16.6
Compliance.
Appendix A to Part 16—Notice of Announcement of Award Opportunities
Appendix B to Part 16—Notice of Award or Contract
Appendix C to Part 16—Written Notice of Beneficiary Protections

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 42 U.S.C. 2000bb
et seq.;
E.O. 13279, 67 FR 77141, 3 CFR, 2002 Comp., p. 258; E.O. 13280, 67 FR 77145, 3 CFR, 2002 Comp., p. 262; E.O. 13559, 75 FR 71319, 3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 273; E.O. 13831, 83 FR 20715, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 806; E.O. 14015, 86 FR 10007, 3 CFR, 2021 Comp., p. 517.

# Source:
69 FR 41382, July 9, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 16.1
Purpose and applicability.
(a) The purpose of this part is to set forth Department of Agriculture (USDA) policy regarding equal opportunity for faith-based organizations to participate in USDA assistance programs for which other private organizations are eligible.
(b) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this part, the policy outlined in this part applies to all recipients and subrecipients of USDA assistance to which 2 CFR part 400 applies, and to recipients and subrecipients of Commodity Credit Corporation assistance that is administered by agencies of USDA.
[89 FR 15707, Mar. 4, 2024]
§ 16.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Direct Federal financial assistance, Federal financial assistance provided directly, Direct funding,
or
Directly funded
means financial assistance received by an entity selected by the Government or intermediary (under this part) to carry out a service (e.g., by contract, grant, loan agreement, or cooperative agreement). References to
Federal financial assistance
will be deemed to be references to direct Federal financial
assistance, unless the referenced assistance meets the definition of
indirect Federal financial assistance
or
Federal financial assistance provided indirectly.
Except as otherwise provided by USDA regulation, the recipients of sub-grants that receive Federal financial assistance through State-administered programs (
e.g.,
flow-through programs such as the National School Lunch Program authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, 42 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.
) are not considered recipients of USDA indirect assistance. These recipients of sub-awards are considered recipients of USDA direct financial assistance.
Explicitly religious activities
include activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization. Any such activities must be offered separately, in time or location, from the programs or services funded under the agency's grant or cooperative agreement, and participation must be voluntary for beneficiaries of the agency grant or cooperative agreement-funded programs and services.
Federal financial assistance
means assistance that non-Federal entities receive or administer in the form of grants, contracts, loans, loan guarantees, property, cooperative agreements, food commodities, direct appropriations, or other assistance, but does not include a tax credit, deduction, or exemption. Federal financial assistance may be direct or indirect.
Indirect Federal financial assistance
or
Federal financial assistance provided indirectly
refers to situations where the service provider receives the assistance wholly as a result of a genuine and independent private choice of the beneficiary, not a choice of the Government, and the cost of that service is paid through a voucher, certificate, or other similar means of Government-funded payment. The availability of adequate secular alternatives is a significant factor in determining whether a program affords a genuine and independent private choice.
Intermediary
means an entity, including a non-governmental organization, acting under a contract, grant, or other agreement with the Federal Government or with a State or local government that accepts USDA direct assistance and distributes that assistance to other organizations that, in turn, provide government-funded services. If an intermediary, acting under a contract, grant, or other agreement with the Federal Government or with a State or local government that is administering a program supported by Federal financial assistance, is given the authority under the contract, grant, or agreement to select non-governmental organizations to provide services funded by the Federal Government, the intermediary must ensure compliance by the recipient of a contract, grant, or agreement with this part and any implementing rules or guidance. If the intermediary is a non-governmental organization, it retains all other rights of a non-governmental organization under the program's statutory and regulatory provisions.
Religious exercise
has the meaning given to the term in 42 U.S.C. 2000cc-5(7)(A).
[85 FR 82132, Dec. 17, 2020], as amended at 89 FR 15707, Mar. 4, 2024]
§ 16.3
Faith-based organizations and Federal financial assistance.
(a) A faith-based organization is eligible, on the same basis as any other organization, to access and participate in any USDA assistance programs for which it is otherwise eligible. Neither the USDA awarding agency nor any State or local government or other intermediary receiving funds under any USDA awarding agency program or service shall, in the selection of service providers, discriminate for or against an organization on the basis of the organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof, or on the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to favor or disfavor a similarly situated secular organization. Decisions about awards of USDA direct assistance or USDA indirect assistance must also be free from political interference, or even the appearance of such interference, and must be made on the basis of merit, not on the basis of religion or religious belief, or lack thereof. Notices or announcements of award opportunities and notices of award or contracts shall include language substantially similar
to that in appendices A and B to this part.
(b) A faith-based organization that participates in USDA assistance programs will retain its autonomy; right of expression; religious character; authority over its governance; and independence from Federal, State, and local governments, and may continue to carry out its mission, including the definition, development, practice, and expression of its religious beliefs, provided that it does not use USDA direct assistance to support any ineligible purposes, including explicitly religious activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization. A faith-based organization may:
(1) Use its facilities to provide services and programs funded with financial assistance from USDA awarding agency without concealing, altering, or removing religious art, icons, scriptures, or other religious symbols,
(2) Retain religious terms in its organization's name,
(3) Select its board members and otherwise govern itself on a religious basis, and
(4) Include religious references in its mission statements and other governing documents.
(c) A faith-based organization's exemption from the Federal prohibition on employment discrimination on the basis of religion, set forth in section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e-1, is not forfeited when an organization participates in a USDA assistance program.
(d) No grant document, agreement, covenant, memorandum of understanding, policy, or regulation that is used by a USDA awarding agency or a State or local government in administering Federal financial assistance from the USDA awarding agency shall require faith-based organizations to provide assurances or notices where they are not required of non-faith-based organizations.
(1) Any restrictions on the use of grant funds shall apply equally to faith-based organizations and non-faith-based organizations.
(2) All organizations that participate in USDA awarding agency programs or services, including organizations with religious character, motives, or affiliation, must carry out eligible activities in accordance with all program requirements and other applicable requirements governing the conduct of USDA awarding agency-funded activities, including those prohibiting the use of direct financial assistance to engage in explicitly religious activities, subject to any accommodations that are granted to organizations on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States.
(3) No grant document, agreement, covenant, memorandum of understanding, policy, or regulation that is used by the USDA awarding agency or a State or local government in administering financial assistance from the USDA awarding agency shall disqualify faith-based organizations from participating in the USDA awarding agency's programs or services on the basis of the organizations' religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof, or on the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to disqualify a similarly situated secular organization.
(e) If an intermediary, acting under a contract, grant, or other agreement with the Federal Government or with a State or local government that is administering a program supported by Federal financial assistance, is delegated the authority under the contract, grant, or agreement to select non-governmental organizations to provide services funded by the Federal Government, the intermediary must ensure compliance by the subrecipient with the provisions of this part and any implementing regulations or guidance. If the intermediary is a non-governmental organization, it retains all other rights of a non-governmental organization under the program's statutory and regulatory provisions.
(f) USDA direct financial assistance may be used for the acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation of structures to the extent authorized by the applicable program statutes and regulations. USDA direct assistance may
not be used for the acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation of structures to the extent that those structures are used by the USDA funding recipients for explicitly religious activities. Where a structure is used for both eligible and ineligible purposes, USDA direct financial assistance may not exceed the cost of those portions of the acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation that are attributable to eligible activities in accordance with the cost accounting requirements applicable to USDA funds. Sanctuaries, chapels, or other rooms that an organization receiving direct assistance from USDA uses as its principal place of worship, however, are ineligible for USDA-funded improvements. Disposition of real property after the term of the grant or any change in use of the property during the term of the grant is subject to government-wide regulations governing real property disposition (see 2 CFR part 400).
(1) Any use of USDA direct financial assistance for equipment, supplies, labor, indirect costs, and the like shall be prorated between the USDA program or activity and any ineligible purposes by the faith-based organization in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and guidance.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the residents of housing who are receiving USDA direct assistance funds from engaging in religious exercise within such housing.
(g) If a recipient contributes its own funds in excess of those funds required by a matching or grant agreement to supplement USDA awarding agency supported activities, the recipient has the option to segregate those additional funds or commingle them with the Federal award funds. If the funds are commingled, the provisions of this section shall apply to all of the commingled funds in the same manner, and to the same extent, as the provisions apply to the Federal funds. With respect to the matching funds, the provisions of this section apply irrespective ofwhether such funds are commingled with Federal funds or segregated.
(h) Nothing in this part shall be construed to preclude a USDA awarding agency or any State or local government or other intermediary from accommodating religion or making an accommodation for religious exercise with respect to one or more program requirements on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States. A USDA awarding agency, State or local government, or other intermediary shall not disqualify an organization from participating in any USDA assistance program for which it is eligible on the basis of the organization's indication that it may request an accommodation with respect to one or more program requirements, unless the organization has made clear that the accommodation is necessary to its participation and the USDA awarding agency, State or local government, or other intermediary has determined that it would deny the accommodation.
[85 FR 82133, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 15707, Mar. 4, 2024]
§ 16.4
Responsibilities of participating organizations.
(a) Any organization that receives direct or indirect Federal financial assistance shall not, with respect to services supported in whole or in part with Federal financial assistance, or in their outreach activities related to such services, discriminate against a current or prospective program beneficiary on the basis of religion, religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice. However, an organization that participates in a program funded by indirect financial assistance need not modify its program activities to accommodate a beneficiary who chooses to expend the indirect aid on the organization's program.
(b) Organizations that receive USDA direct assistance under any USDA program may not engage in explicitly religious activities, including activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization, as part of the programs or services funded by USDA direct assistance. If an organization conducts such activities, the activities must be offered separately, in time or location, from the programs or services
supported with USDA direct assistance, and participation must be voluntary for beneficiaries of the programs or services supported with such USDA direct assistance. The use of indirect Federal financial assistance is not subject to this restriction. Nothing in this part restricts the Department's authority under applicable Federal law to fund activities that can be directly funded by the Government consistent with the Establishment Clause.
(c)(1) All organizations that receive USDA direct assistance under any domestic USDA program must give written notice to all beneficiaries and prospective beneficiaries of certain protections in a manner and form prescribed by USDA. The required language for this written notice to beneficiaries is set forth in appendix C to this part. This notice must include the following information:
(i) The organization may not discriminate against beneficiaries or prospective beneficiaries on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice;
(ii) The organization may not require beneficiaries or prospective beneficiaries to attend or participate in any explicitly religious activities that are offered by the organization, and any participation by beneficiaries or prospective beneficiaries in such activities must be purely voluntary;
(iii) The organization must separate in time or location any privately funded explicitly religious activities from activities supported by direct Federal financial assistance; and
(iv) Beneficiaries or prospective beneficiaries may report violations of these protections (including denials of services or benefits) by an organization by contacting or filing a written complaint with USDA's Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights.
(2) The USDA awarding agency may determine that this written notice must also inform beneficiaries and prospective beneficiaries about how to obtain information from the awarding agency about other federally funded service providers in their area that provide the services available under the applicable program.
(3) This written notice must be given to beneficiaries prior to the time they enroll in the program or receive services from the program. When the nature of the service provided or exigent circumstances make it impracticable to provide such written notice in advance of the actual service, service providers must advise beneficiaries of their protections at the earliest available opportunity.
(d) A beneficiary or prospective beneficiary in a program supported by indirect Federal financial assistance may report an organization's violation of the religious protections in this part, including any denials of services or benefits by an organization, by contacting or filing a written complaint with USDA's Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights.
(e) Nothing in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall be construed to prevent faith-based organizations that receive USDA assistance under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, 42 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.,
the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, 42 U.S.C. 1771
et seq.,
or USDA international school feeding programs from considering religion in their admissions practices or from imposing religious attendance or curricular requirements at their schools.
[85 FR 82134, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 15708, Mar. 4, 2024]
§ 16.5
Severability.
To the extent that any provision of this regulation is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, USDA intends for all other provisions that are capable of operating in the absence of the specific provision that has been invalidated to remain in effect.
[85 FR 82134, Dec. 17, 2020]
§ 16.6
Compliance.
USDA agencies will monitor compliance with this part in the course of regular oversight of USDA programs.
[89 FR 15709, Mar. 4, 2024]
Pt. 16, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 16—Notice or Announcement of Award Opportunities
(a) Faith-based organizations may apply for this award on the same basis as any other
organization, as set forth at, and subject to the protections and requirements of, this part and any applicable constitutional and statutory requirements, including 42 U.S.C. 2000bb
et seq.
USDA will not, in the selection of recipients, discriminate for or against an organization on the basis of the organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof, or on the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to favor or disfavor a similarly situated secular organization.
(b) A faith-based organization that participates in this program will retain its independence from the Government and may continue to carry out its mission consistent with religious freedom and conscience protections in Federal law. Religious accommodations may also be sought under many of these religious freedom and conscience protection laws.
(c) A faith-based organization may not use direct Federal financial assistance from USDA to support or engage in any explicitly religious activities except when consistent with the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment and any other applicable requirements. An organization receiving Federal financial assistance also may not, in providing services funded by USDA, or in their outreach activities related to such services, discriminate against a program beneficiary or prospective program beneficiary on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice.
[89 FR 15709, Mar. 4, 2024]
Pt. 16, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 16—Notice of Award or Contract
(a) A faith-based organization that participates in this program retains its independence from the Government and may continue to carry out its mission consistent with religious freedom and conscience protections in Federal law. Religious accommodations may also be sought under many of these religious freedom and conscience protection laws.
(b) A faith-based organization may not use direct Federal financial assistance from USDA to support or engage in any explicitly religious activities except when consistent with the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment and any other applicable requirements. An organization receiving Federal financial assistance also may not, in providing services funded by USDA, or in their outreach activities related to such services, discriminate against a program beneficiary or prospective program beneficiary on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice.
[89 FR 15709, Mar. 4, 2024]
Pt. 16, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 16—Written Notice of Beneficiary Protections
Name of Organization:
Name of Program:
Contact Information for Program Staff: [provide name, phone number, and email address, if appropriate]
Because this program is supported in whole or in part by financial assistance from the Federal Government, we are required to let you know that:
(1) We may not discriminate against you on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice;
(2) We may not require you to attend or participate in any explicitly religious activities (including activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization) that are offered by our organization, and any participation by you in such activities must be purely voluntary;
(3) We must separate in time or location any privately funded explicitly religious activities (including activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization) from activities supported with direct Federal financial assistance; and
(4) You may report violations of these protections, including any denials of services or benefits by an organization, by contacting or filing a written complaint with the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Executive Director, Center for Civil Rights Enforcement, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250-9410, or by email to
program.intake@usda.gov
.
[When required by the Department, the notice must also state:] (5) If you would like to seek information about whether there are any other federally funded organizations that provide these kinds of services in your area, please contact [insert appropriate point of contact].
This written notice must be given to you before you enroll in the program or receive services from the program, unless the nature of the service provided or exigent circumstances make it impracticable to provide such notice before we provide the actual service. In such an instance, this notice must be given to you at the earliest available opportunity.
[89 FR 15709, Mar. 4, 2024]
Pt. 17

# PART 17—SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES MADE AVAILABLE UNDER TITLE I OF THE AGRICULTURAL TRADE DEVELOPMENT AND ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1954, AS AMENDED
Sec.
17.1
General.
17.2
Definition of terms.
17.3
Purchase authorizations.
17.4
Agents of the participant or importer.
17.5
Contracts between commodity suppliers and importers.
17.6
Discounts, fees, commissions and payments.
17.7
Notice of sale procedures.
17.8
Ocean transportation.
17.9
CCC payment to suppliers.
17.10
Refunds and insurance.
17.11
Recordkeeping and access to records.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1701-1704, 1731-1736b, 1736f, 5676; E.O. 12220, 45 FR 44245.

# Source:
62 FR 52932, Oct. 10, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.1
General.
(a)
What this part covers.
This part contains the regulations governing the financing of the sale and exportation of agricultural commodities by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), through private trade channels to the maximum extent practicable, under the authority of title I of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended (hereinafter called “the Act”).
(b)
Agricultural commodities agreements.
(1) Under the Act, the Government of the United States enters into Agricultural Commodities Agreements with governments of foreign countries or with private entities. These agreements cover financing of the sale and exportation of agricultural commodities, including certain ocean transportation costs.
(2) Agricultural Commodities Agreements may provide that a participant will repay CCC for the financing extended by CCC either in dollars or in local currencies.
(3) A private entity must maintain a
bona fide
business office in the United States and have a person, principal, or agent on whom service of judicial process may be had in the United States unless the General Sales Manager determines that there are adequate assurances of repayment to CCC for the financing extended by CCC.
(c)
Purchase authorizations.
This part covers, among other things, the issuance by the General Sales Manager of purchase authorizations which authorize the participant to:
(1) Purchase agricultural commodities; and
(2) Procure ocean transportation therefor.
(d)
Financing.
For amounts to be financed by CCC, CCC will pay the supplier of commodity or of ocean transportation in accordance with § 17.9(a)(3). The cost of ocean freight or ocean freight differential will be financed by CCC only when specifically provided for in the purchase authorization.
(e)
Where information is available.
General information about operations under this part is available from the Director, Pub. L. 480 Operations Division, Foreign Agricultural Service, USDA, Washington, DC 20250-1033. Information about financing operations under this part, including forms prescribed for use thereunder, is available from the Controller, Commodity Credit Corporation, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20250-0581.
[62 FR 52932, Oct. 10, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 59692, Nov. 5, 1998]
§ 17.2
Definition of terms.
Terms used in the regulations in this part are defined or identified as follows, subject to amplification in subsequent sections:
Affiliate
and
associated company.
Any legal entity which owns or controls, or is owned or controlled by, another legal entity. For a corporation, ownership of the voting stock is the controlling criterion. A legal entity is considered to own or control a second legal entity if—
(1) The legal entity owns an interest of 50 percent or more in the second legal entity; or
(2) The legal entity and one or more other legal entities, in which it owns an interest of 50 percent or more, together own an interest of 50 percent or more in the second legal entity; or
(3) The legal entity owns an interest of 50 percent or more in another legal entity which in turn owns an interest of 50 percent or more in the second legal entity.
CCC.
The Commodity Credit Corporation, USDA.
Commodity.
An agricultural commodity produced in the United States, or product thereof produced in the United States, as specified in the applicable purchase authorization.
Controller.
The Controller, Commodity Credit Corporation, or the Controller's designee.
Copy.
A photocopy or other type of copy of an original document showing all data shown on the original, including signature or the name of the person signing the original or, if the signature or name is not shown on the copy, a statement that the original was signed.
Delivery.
The transfer to or for the account of an importer of custody and right of possession of the commodity at U.S. ports or Canadian transshipment points in accordance with the delivery terms of the contract and purchase authorization. For purposes of financing, delivery is deemed to occur as of the on-board date shown on the ocean bill of lading.
Destination country
The foreign country to which the commodity is exported.
Director.
The Director, Pub. L. 480 Operations Division, Foreign Agricultural Service.
Expediting services.
Services provided to the vessel owner at the discharge port in order to facilitate the discharge and sailing of the vessel; this may include assisting with paperwork, obtaining permits and inspections, supervision and consultation.
FAS.
The Foreign Agricultural Service, USDA.
FSA.
The Farm Service Agency, USDA.
FSA Office.
The office designated in the purchase authorization to administer this financing operation on behalf of CCC.
Finance.
To expend CCC funds, whether or not the participant is required to repay the funds to CCC. For example, this part refers to CCC “financing” both the ocean freight differential, which the participant does not repay, and the commodity cost, which the participant does repay.
Form CCC-106.
The form entitled “Advice of Vessel Approval.”
Form CCC-329.
The signed original of the form entitled “Supplier's Certificate.”
General Sales Manager
and
GSM.
The General Sales Manager, FAS, or the General Sales Manager's designee.
Importer.
The person that contracts with the supplier for the importation of the commodity. The importer may be the participant or any person to which a participant has issued a subauthorization.
Importing country.
Any nation with which an agreement has been signed under the Act.
Invitation for bids
and
IFB.
A publicly advertised request for offers.
Legal entity
includes, but is not limited to, an individual (except that an individual and his or her spouse and their minor children are considered as one legal entity), partnership, association, company, corporation and trust.
Letter of credit.
An irrevocable commercial letter of credit issued, confirmed, or advised by a banking institution in the United States and payable in U.S. dollars.
Local currency.
The currency of the importing or destination country.
Notice of arrival.
A written notice in accordance with § 17.8(g) stating that the vessel has arrived at the first port of discharge.
Ocean bill of lading
—(1)
In the case of cargo carried on a vessel other than LASH barges:
An “on-board” bill of lading, or a bill of lading with an “on-board” endorsement, which is dated and signed or initialed on behalf of the carrier; or
(2)
In the case of cargo carried in a LASH barge:
(i) For the purpose of financing commodity price, an “on-board” bill of lading showing the date the commodity was loaded on board barges, which is dated and signed or initialed on behalf of the carrier, or a bill of lading or a LASH barge bill of lading with an “on-board barge” endorsement which is dated and signed or initialed on behalf of the carrier.
(ii) For the purpose of financing ocean freight or ocean freight differential, a bill of lading which is dated and
signed or initialed on behalf of the carrier indicating that the barge containing the cargo was placed aboard the vessel named in the Form CCC-106 not later than eight running days after the last LASH barge loading date (contract layday) specified in the Form CCC-106. This may be either an “on board” bill of lading or a bill of lading or a LASH barge bill of lading with an “on-board ocean vessel” endorsement.
(3) Documentary requirements for a copy of an “ocean bill of lading” refer to a non-negotiable copy thereof.
Ocean freight contract.
A charter party or liner booking note.
Ocean transportation.
Interchangeable with the term “ocean freight”.
Ocean transportation brokerage.
Services provided by shipping agents related to their engagement to arrange ocean transportation and services provided by ships brokers related to their engagement to arrange employment of vessels.
Ocean transportation-related services.
Furnishing the following services: lightening, stevedoring, and bagging (whether these services are performed at load or discharge), and inland transportation, i.e., transportation from the discharge port to the designated inland point of entry in the destination country, if the discharge port is not located in the destination country.
Participant.
The collective term used to denote the importing country or the private entity with which an agreement has been negotiated under the Act.
Person.
An individual or other legal entity.
Private entity.
The nongovernmental legal entity with which an agreement has been signed under the Act.
Purchase authorization.
Form FAS-480, “Authorization to Purchase Agricultural Commodities,” issued to a participant under this part.
Purchasing agent.
Any person engaged by a participant to procure agricultural commodities.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or the Secretary's designee.
Selling agent.
A representative for the supplier of the commodity, who is not employed by or otherwise connected with the importer or the participant.
Shipping agent.
Any person engaged by a participant to arrange ocean transportation.
Ships broker.
Any person engaged by a supplier of ocean transportation to arrange employment of vessels.
Supplier.
Any person who sells a commodity to an importer under the terms of a purchase authorization, or who sells ocean transportation to an importer or supplier of the commodity under the terms of a purchase authorization.
USDA.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture.
United States.
The 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.
§ 17.3
Purchase authorizations.
(a)
Issuance.
After an agreement is signed, the GSM will issue a purchase authorization to the participant for each commodity included in the agreement.
(b)
Contents.
Each purchase authorization includes the following information:
(1) The commodity to be purchased and specifications, approximate quantity and maximum dollar amount authorized;
(2) Contracting requirements;
(3) The contracting period, during which suppliers and importers must enter into contracts; and the delivery period, during which the commodity must be delivered;
(4) The terms of delivery to the importer;
(5) Documentation required for CCC financing in addition to or in lieu of the documentation specified in § 17.9;
(6) Provisions relating to payment to CCC, if applicable;
(7) The address of the FSA office administering the financing operation on behalf of CCC;
(8) The method of financing provided under the Agricultural Commodities Agreement;
(9) Any provisions relating to financing by CCC in addition to or in lieu of those specified in this part;
(10) Authorization to procure ocean transportation, and provisions relating to the financing of ocean freight or ocean freight differential, as applicable;
(11) Any other provisions considered necessary by the General Sales Manager.
(c)
Applicability of this part.
In addition to the provisions of a particular purchase authorization, each purchase authorization, unless otherwise provided, is subject to the provisions of this part to the same extent as if the provisions were fully set forth in the purchase authorization.
(d)
Modification or revocation.
The General Sales Manager reserves the right at any time for any reason or cause whatsoever to supplement, modify or revoke any purchase authorization, including the termination of deliveries, if it is determined to be in the interest of the U.S. Government. CCC shall reimburse suppliers who would otherwise be entitled to be financed by CCC for costs which were incurred as a result of such action by the GSM in connection with firm sales or shipping contracts, and which were not otherwise recovered by the supplier after a reasonable effort to minimize such costs:
Provided, however,
That such reimbursement shall not be made to a supplier if the GSM determines that the GSM's action was taken because the supplier failed to comply with the requirements of the regulations in this part or the applicable purchase authorization;
Provided further,
That reimbursement to suppliers of ocean transportation shall not exceed the ocean freight differential when the purchase authorization provides only for financing the differential.
(e)
Subauthorizations.
The participant may issue subauthorizations to importers consistent with the terms of the applicable purchase authorization. The participant, in subauthorizing, shall specify to importers all the provisions of the applicable purchase authorization which apply to the subauthorization.
(f)
Cotton textiles.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, financing of textiles under this part is limited to cotton yarns and fabrics processed up to and including the dyed and printed state, and preshrinking. Any processing of such yarns and fabrics beyond this stage will be at the expense of the participant.
(2) Purchase authorizations may permit cotton textiles processed beyond the stage described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section to be purchased, but the maximum financing by CCC is limited to the equivalent value of the cotton yarns and fabrics described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, contained in the textiles, plus eligible ocean transportation costs.
(3) Financing is available only for textiles manufactured entirely of U.S. cotton in the United States.
§ 17.4
Agents of the participant or importer.
(a)
General.
(1) A participant or importer is not required to use a purchasing agent or shipping agent, or employ the services of any other agent, broker, consultant, or other representative (hereafter “agent”) in connection with arranging the purchase of agricultural commodities under title I of the Act and arranging ocean transportation for such commodities. However, if an agent is used, the participant shall submit a written nomination of the agent to the Deputy Administrator, Export Credits, FAS, along with a copy of the proposed agreement between the participant or importer and such agent. The written nomination shall also specify the period of time to be covered by the nomination. A person may not act as agent for a participant or importer unless the Deputy Administrator, Export Credits, FAS, has provided a written statement that the nomination is accepted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(2) See § 17.6(c) regarding commissions, fees, or other compensation of any kind to agents of a participant or importer.
(3) A freight agent employed by the Agency for International Development under titles II and III is not eligible to act as an agent for the participant or importer during the period of such employment. A subcontractor of such freight agent is not eligible to act as an agent for the participant or importer during the period of its subcontract.
(b)
Affiliate defined.
For purposes of this section, the term affiliate has the meaning provided in § 17.2 and, in addition, persons will also be considered to
be affiliates if any of the following conditions are met:
(1) There are any common officers or directors.
(2) There is any investment by eligible commodity suppliers, selling agents, or persons engaged in furnishing ocean transportation or ocean transportation-related services for commodities provided under any title of the Act, section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949, or the Food for Progress Act of 1985, whether or not any part of the ocean transportation is financed by the U.S. Government, or by agents of such persons, or their officers or directors, in the agent of the participant or importer.
(3) There is any investment by the agent of the participant or importer, or its officers or directors, in approved commodity suppliers; selling agents; or persons engaged in furnishing ocean transportation or ocean transportation-related services for commodities provided under any title of the Act, section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949, or the Food for Progress Act of 1985, whether or not any part of the ocean transportation is financed by the U.S. Government, or in agents of such persons. These conditions include those cases in which investment has been concealed by the utilization of any scheme or device to circumvent the purposes of this section but does not include investment in any mutual fund.
(c)
Information to be furnished.
A person nominated to act as an agent of the participant or importer, and any independent contractor that may be hired by such person to perform functions of a shipping agent, shall furnish to the Deputy Administrator, Export Credits, FAS, the following information or documentation as may be applicable:
(1) The names of all incorporators;
(2) The names and titles of all officers and directors;
(3) The names of all affiliates, including the names and titles of all officers and directors of each affiliate, and a description of the type of business in which the affiliate is engaged;
(4) The names and proportionate share interest of all stockholders;
(5) If beneficial interest in stock is held by other than the named shareholders, the names of the holders of the beneficial interest and the proportionate share of each;
(6) The amount of the subscribed capital;
(7) For USDA acceptance of a nomination covering services provided during each U.S. fiscal year (October 1-September 30), a written statement signed by such person:
(i) Certifying that, during the U.S. fiscal year covered by USDA's acceptance of the nomination, the person has not engaged in, and will not engage in, supplying commodities under any title of the Act or the Food for Progress Act of 1985 or furnishing ocean transportation or ocean transportation-related services for commodities provided under any title of the Act, section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949, or the Food for Progress Act of 1985, whether any part of the ocean transportation is financed by the U.S. Government; and that the person has not served and will not serve as an agent of firms engaged in providing such commodities, ocean transportation and ocean transportation-related services;
(ii) Certifying that, for ocean transportation brokerage services provided during the U.S. fiscal year covered by USDA's acceptance of the nomination, the person has not shared and will not share freight commissions with the participant, the importer, or any agent of the participant or the importer, whether CCC finances any part of the ocean freight. CCC will consider as sharing a commission a situation where the agent forgoes part or all of a commission and the supplier of ocean transportation pays a commission directly to the participant, the importer, or any other person on behalf of the participant or the importer; and
(iii) Undertaking that, during the U.S. fiscal year covered by USDA's acceptance of the nomination, affiliates of such person have not engaged in and will not engage in the activities or actions prohibited in this paragraph (c)(7).
(8) A certification that neither the person nor any affiliates has arranged to give or receive any payment, kickback, or illegal benefit in connection with the person's selection as agent of the participant or importer.
(d)
USDA acceptance.
(1) USDA will consider accepting the nomination of a person to act as an agent of the participant or importer when the documents required to be submitted by this section are received by the Deputy Administrator, Export Credits, FAS.
(2) USDA's acceptance of such nomination shall remain in effect for the period of time requested by the participant or such shorter period as the Deputy Administrator, Export Credits, FAS, may determine. USDA will withdraw such acceptance if the agent of the participant or importer, or any of the affiliates of such agent, violates the certifications or undertakings made pursuant to paragraphs (c) (7) and (8) of this section.
(3) A person is required to submit the information and documentation required by § 17.4(c) to support the person's first nomination to act as an agent of any participant or importer for each fiscal year. For subsequent nominations covering the same fiscal year, the person must provide a written certification that the information and documentation provided earlier are still accurate and complete, or must provide the details of any changes to previously submitted information.
(e)
Notification.
The Deputy Administrator, Export Credits, FAS, shall promptly notify persons nominated as agents of the participant or importer, of the determination or of the need for further inquiry, and shall provide a written response within 30 calendar days of receipt of all the required documents. If USDA will not accept the nomination, the notification shall state the reasons therefor. The determination of the Deputy Administrator, Export Credits, FAS, is effective immediately and continues in effect pending the result of any appeal to the General Sales Manager.
(f)
Non-acceptance or withdrawal.
(1) If USDA does not accept the nomination of a person, or if acceptance has been withdrawn pursuant to the provisions of this section, the person may, within 30 calendar days, present to the General Sales Manager, orally or in writing, any reasons as to why such action should not stand. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as to prohibit a person whose nomination has not been accepted or whose acceptance has been withdrawn by USDA from being nominated at a later time.
(2) If, in the procurement of commodities made available under title I, Pub. L. 480, a participant or importer uses an agent whose nomination has not been accepted in writing by the Deputy Administrator, Export Credits, FAS, USDA may withhold sales approval.
(3) If, in the shipping of commodities made available under title I, Pub. L. 480, a participant or importer uses an agent whose nomination has not been accepted in writing by the Deputy Administrator, Export Credits, FAS, USDA may withhold vessel approval or may deduct from the ocean freight differential to be paid, the amount of any commission to the agent in connection with the shipment.
(g)
No competitive advantage.
A shipping agent may not take any action which would give a competitive advantage to any supplier of commodities or ocean transportation. This includes, but is not limited to, providing advance notice of IFB's or amendments, or selectively enforcing IFB or contract requirements.
[62 FR 52932, Oct. 10, 1997; 62 FR 63606, Dec. 1, 1997]
§ 17.5
Contracts between commodity suppliers and importers.
(a)
Commodity suppliers and selling agents.
(1) Commodity suppliers must be determined to be eligible under the Pub. L. 480, title I program in order for their contracts to be eligible for CCC financing. A prospective commodity supplier must be engaged in the business of selling agricultural commodities for export from the United States. The commodity supplier must maintain a bona fide business office in the United States, and must have a person, principal or agent on whom service of judicial process may be had in the United States.
(2) Persons who wish to participate as commodity suppliers shall submit the following information to the Foreign Agricultural Service, Stop 1033, USDA, 1400 Independence Ave., SW, Washington, DC 20250-1033:
(i) A current financial statement of the prospective supplier, preferably an
audited statement, as evidence of financial responsibility. Submission of a letter of reference from a bank is also encouraged.
(ii) A statement containing general background information about the firm, including the names and titles of the chief executive officers and a description of the firm's experience as an exporter of U.S. agricultural commodities. Copies of bills of lading supporting this statement are also requested.
(iii) Any other information requested relating to whether the prospective supplier is responsible and is able to perform its obligations under this part and the purchase authorization.
(3) If, at the time the commodity supplier reports the sale it is determined that an agent employed or engaged by a commodity supplier to obtain a contract is not a selling agent as defined in § 17.2, the sale will not be eligible for financing.
(b)
Eligibility for financing.
To be eligible for financing, commodity contracts must comply with the following requirements unless otherwise specified in the purchase authorization.
(1) Commodity contracts between suppliers and importers are considered to be conditioned on the approval by USDA of the contract price; conformance of the sale to the provisions of the purchase authorization; responsiveness of the offer to IFB terms; and compliance by the supplier and the selling agent, if any, with paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) Importers and suppliers must enter into contracts within the contracting period specified in the purchase authorization. The contracts must provide for deliveries to the importer in accordance with the delivery terms and during the delivery period specified in the purchase authorization, or any amendment or modification thereto.
(3) Contracts for a commodity, under a purchase authorization which limits delivery terms to f.o.b. or f.a.s., must be separate and apart from the contracts for ocean transportation of the commodity.
(4) The supplier's sales price may not exceed the prevailing range of export market prices as applied to the terms of sale at the time of sale, as determined by USDA. The “time of sale” is the date and time specified in the IFB for receipt of offers; or the date of the contract amendment if the amendment affects the sale price, as determined by USDA. The contract price may not be on a cost plus a percentage-of-cost basis.
(c)
Contracting procedures
—(1)
Purchasing—general.
(i) Importers must purchase commodities on the basis of IFB's.
(ii) The participant shall maintain a record of all offers received from suppliers until the expiration of three years after final payment under contracts awarded under the purchase authorization. The GSM may examine these records or request specific information in connection with the offers.
(2)
Invitations for bids.
The following conditions shall apply on all purchases of commodities on the basis of IFB's:
(i) The General Sales Manager must approve the terms of the IFB before it is issued by the importer.
(ii) The importer shall issue the IFB in the United States and shall open all offers in public in the United States at the time and place specified in the IFB.
(iii) The IFB must permit submission of offers from all suppliers who meet the requirements of this subpart.
(iv) The IFB may not preclude offers for shipment from any United States port(s) unless the purchase authorization provides for exportation only from certain ports.
(v) The IFB may not establish minimum quantities to be offered or which will be considered.
(vi) The IFB must stipulate the responsibility for each party for payment of any costs not eligible for financing by CCC.
(vii) The IFB must be in compliance with this part, the purchase authorization, and sound commercial standards.
(3)
Contract awards.
(i) The importer shall consider only offers which are responsive to the IFB and shall make awards either on the basis of the lowest commodity price(s) offered or on the basis of lowest landed cost. However, when vessels offered under the flag of the participant, the importing country or the destination country; or vessels
controlled by the participant, the importing country or the destination country are to be used, the participant must purchase commodities for shipment on such vessels only on the basis of the lowest commodity price(s) offered. This limitation may, however, be waived by the GSM:
(A) When the lowest commodity price(s) offered are in locations where vessels cannot reasonably be made available without a substantial increase in freight costs to the participant;
(B) For small quantities offered at additional loading points (in aggregate not more than 15 percent of the total tonnage offered by a vessel); or
(C) Where this limitation would conflict with the purposes of the program.
(ii) For purposes of this section, “lowest commodity price(s)” means the lowest commodity price(s) offered for loading onto the type of vessel (dry bulk carrier, tanker, etc.) to be utilized to carry the commodity purchased.
(iii) For purposes of this section, “lowest landed cost” means the combination of commodity price and ocean freight rate resulting in the lowest total cost to deliver the commodity to the importing country, considering the quantity which must be shipped on privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels, as determined by the Director. Lowest landed cost may be defined on either a foreign flag or U.S. flag basis. Awards may not be made on the lowest landed cost basis unless IFB's are issued for commodity and ocean freight so that all commodity and ocean freight offers are reviewed simultaneously.
(iv) Participants are encouraged to purchase commodities on the basis of lowest landed cost when U.S. flag vessels are to be used. If such commodity purchases are not made on the basis of lowest landed cost (U.S. flag), ocean freight differential payments will nonetheless be calculated on the rates of U.S. flag vessels which would represent the lowest landed cost.
(v) Announcement of awards shall be made in the United States. The importer shall promptly submit to the Director copies of all offers received with a copy of the IFB which was issued. No sale can be approved for financing until this information has been received by FAS. The decision of the GSM shall be final regarding the responsiveness of offers to IFB terms in the awarding of contracts.
(d)
Contract quantity eligible for financing.
The quantity eligible for financing in the contract between the supplier and the importer may not exceed that quantity approved by the Pub. L. 480 Operations Division, FAS, including any approved contract tolerance.
(e)
Contract disputes.
Contracts between suppliers and importers should stipulate the responsibility of each party for payment of any costs not eligible for financing by CCC. Questions as to payment of ineligible costs should be resolved between the contracting parties.
(f)
Contract provisions.
Each contract entered into for financing under this part is deemed to include all terms and conditions required by the regulations in this part.
(g)
Export Trade Act
(
Webb-Pomerene Law
). A supplier who is a member of a Webb-Pomerene association and who enters into contracts with importers as a member of such an association shall so indicate in a statement on, or attached to, the copy of the supplier's detailed invoice referred to in § 17.9(c)(2).
§ 17.6
Discounts, fees, commissions and payments.
For purposes of this section, the term “payment” means a commission, fee or other compensation of any kind. The term “other compensation of any kind” includes anything given in return for any consideration, services, or benefits received or to be received.
(a)
Discounts.
If a contract provides for one or more discounts (including but not limited to trade or quantity discounts and discounts for prompt payment) whether expressed as such or as “commissions” to the importer, CCC will only pay the invoice amount after the discount (supplier's contracted price less all discounts).
(b)
Selling agents.
(1) A supplier may not make a payment to a selling agent employed or engaged by the supplier to obtain a contract. This prohibition applies to any payment to a person who has acted as a selling agent to obtain a
contract even though the payment may be for services performed that are not themselves services to obtain a contract.
(2) A person is deemed to act “to obtain a contract” if the person acts on behalf of a commodity supplier to:
(i) Influence a buyer to award a contract to the supplier;
(ii) Give the supplier a competitive advantage in relation to other potential suppliers; or
(iii) Influence CCC to approve a contract for financing under this part.
(3) CCC will not consider acts which are purely ministerial in nature and do not require the exercise of personal influence, judgment, or discretion (such as attending bid openings or presenting offers at bid openings), or services to implement a contract after it has been entered into by the parties (such as handling documentation problems or contract disputes), as acts to obtain a contract.
(c)
Other prohibitions.
(1) Suppliers of commodities or ocean transportation may not:
(i) Pay a commission to the participant or importer; to any agency, including an agency of the government of the importing country or the destination country; or to a corporation owned or controlled by the participant or the government of the importing country or the destination country.
(ii) Pay a commission to any affiliate of the participant, if the participant is a private entity;
(iii) Make any payment to an agent of the participant or importer, in the person's capacity as such agent, other than ocean transportation brokerage commissions.
(iv) Pay an address commission or payment.
(2) For ocean transportation, in addition to this paragraph, see also § 17.8(j).
(3) When any portion of the ocean freight is financed by CCC, total ocean transportation brokerage commissions earned on U.S. and non-U.S.-flag bookings by all parties arranging vessel fixtures shall not exceed 2
1/2
percent of the total freight costs.
(4) If a payment is made in violation of this section, CCC may demand dollar refund of the entire amount financed by CCC under the contract.
§ 17.7
Notice of sale procedures.
(a)
Telephonic notice of sale.
The supplier shall, immediately upon making a firm sale, telephone a notice of sale to Pub L. 480 Operations Division, FAS. A sale is considered firm when the supplier has been notified by the importer of an award, even though the contract is conditioned on approval by FAS (see § 17.5(b)(1).) If the supplier fails to furnish a notice of sale within 3 working days after the date of sale, CCC has the right to refuse to finance the sale.
(b)
Sale approval.
(1) Pub. L. 480 Operations Division will notify the supplier by telephone of approval of the notice of sale.
(2) The supplier will prepare Form FAS-359, “Declaration of Sale,” and submit it to Pub. L. 480 Operations Division promptly as soon as FAS has provided the CCC Registration Number to the supplier. The supplier or the supplier's authorized representative must sign the form.
(3) Each Form FAS-359 shall cover only a single sale contract. If a sale is made under two or more purchase authorizations, the supplier will prepare separate forms for each purchase authorization.
(4) If any correction is needed to the Form FAS-359, the supplier must immediately notify FAS. If a contract is amended, the supplier should present the original Form FAS-359 for payment along with a copy of the written USDA approval of the contract amendment.
(c)
Sale disapproval.
(1) Pub. L. 480 Operations Division, FAS, will notify the supplier by telephone when a sale is disapproved for financing. The related contract between the supplier and importer shall, for purposes of financing, be considered null and void.
(2) On receipt of a notice of disapproval, the supplier shall promptly notify the importer.
(d)
Contract delivery period.
Price approval is limited to exports made during the delivery period stated in the notice of sale or any contract amendment approved by the Pub. L. 480 Operations Division, FAS. If the supplier
cannot complete delivery by the terminal delivery date of the contract delivery period, the supplier and the participant or importer shall submit a notice of contract amendment as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. If the supplier fails to comply, § 17.10(d) shall apply.
(e)
Contract amendments.
(1) The supplier and the participant or importer shall each submit a written notice of each contract amendment to the Director immediately after the amendment to the contract is made. This includes not only any change in the contract delivery period or any other terms and conditions of the contract as provided in the information given in the original notice of sale or any amendment thereto, but also any change in any other terms and conditions of the contract.
(2) The notice of contract amendment must contain the following:
(i) A request that USDA approve an amendment to the specifically identified sale contract between (the participant or importer) and (the commodity supplier).
(ii) A statement of what the amendment consists of (as, extension of delivery period through (date)) and a detailed explanation of the reasons for the amendment.
(iii) A statement that the contract amendment has been agreed to by both buyer and seller.
(3) Pub. Law 480 Operations Division, FAS, will notify the supplier as to whether the amendment is approved or disapproved.
(4) The supplier shall furnish a copy of the USDA approval of the amendment with other documentation submitted to obtain payment.
(5) If the supplier fails to furnish notice of a contract amendment to Pub. L. 480 Operations Division, FAS, within 3 working days after the date of such amendment, CCC has the right to refuse to finance the sale or any portion of the sale.
(6) Any amendment must be consistent with the provisions of the purchase authorization and this part and must otherwise be acceptable to Pub. L. 480 Operations Division, FAS.
§ 17.8
Ocean transportation.
(a)
General.
(1) This section applies to the financing of ocean freight or ocean freight differential. Ocean freight will be financed by CCC only to the extent specifically provided for in the purchase authorization. The purchase authorization may provide requirements in addition to or in lieu of those specified in this section.
(2) The supplier of ocean transportation must be engaged in the business of furnishing ocean transportation from the United States and must have a person, principal or agent, on whom service of judicial process may be had in the United States.
(3) The quantity of the commodity which must be shipped on privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels will be determined by the Director.
(4) The supplier of ocean transportation shall release copies of the ocean bills of lading to the supplier of the commodity promptly upon completion of loading of the vessel.
(5) When CCC finances any part of the ocean freight or the ocean freight differential, the participant must open an operable irrevocable letter of credit for the portion of the ocean freight not financed by CCC. All banking institution charges, such as commissions, expenses, etc., are for the account of the participant. The amount of the letter of credit shall be computed using the information provided in the Form CCC-106. The letter of credit shall provide for sight payment or acceptance of a draft, payable in U.S. dollars, on the basis of the quantities specified in the applicable ocean freight contract. If the supplier of ocean transportation accepts the commodity before receipt of an acceptable letter of credit from a bank, the supplier takes such action at its own risk. This action in itself does not affect eligibility for CCC financing.
(b)
Contracting procedures
—(1)
Invitations for Bids
(
IFB's
). (i) Public freight “Invitations for Bids” are required in the solicitation of freight offers from all U.S. and non-U.S. flag vessels when CCC is financing any portion of the ocean freight.
(ii) For non-U.S. flag vessels when CCC is not financing any portion of the ocean freight, public freight IFB's are
also required unless otherwise authorized by the Director, or unless the participant requires the use of vessels under its flag, the flag of the destination country, or other non-U.S. flag vessels under its control. Vessels considered to be under the control of the participant or the destination country include vessels under time charters, bare boat charters, consecutive voyage charters, or other contractual arrangements for the carriage of commodities which provide guaranteed access to vessels.
(iii) Prior to release to the trade, all freight IFB's must be submitted to the Director for approval. Freight IFB's must be issued by means of Bridge News, New York, plus at least one other means of communication.
(iv) All freight IFB's must:
(A) Specify a closing time for the receipt of offers and state that late offers will not be considered;
(B) Provide that offers are required to have a canceling date no later than the last contract layday specified in the IFB;
(C) Provide the same deadline for receipt of offers from both U.S. flag vessels and non-U.S. flag vessels;
(D) Stipulate the responsibility for each party for payment of any costs not eligible for financing by CCC (in the IFB or the pro forma charter party).
(2)
Competitive bidding.
When CCC is financing any portion of the freight, all offers shall be opened in public in the United States at the time and place specified in the IFB. Offers shall be opened prior to receipt of offers for the sale of commodities as the Director determines appropriate. Only offers which are responsive to the IFB may be considered, and no negotiation shall be permitted.
(3)
Records of offers.
Copies of all offers received must be promptly furnished to the Director, who may require the participant, or its shipping agent, to submit a written certification to the GSM that all offers received (with the times of receipt designated thereon) were transmitted to the Department. For purposes of this paragraph “time of receipt” shall be the time a hand-carried offer or a mailed offer was received at the designated location for presentation or, if transmitted electronically, the time the offer was received, as supported by evidence satisfactory to the Director.
(4)
Re-tenders.
The Director may permit or require a participant to refuse any and all bids, and in such case a participant may conduct a re-tender with the approval of the Director. The Director shall not approve or require freight re-tenders unless they will increase the likelihood of meeting U.S. flag cargo preference requirements, will permit the desired quantity to be shipped, will likely result in reduced CCC expenditures, or are otherwise determined to be in the best interest of the program.
(c)
Request for vessel approval.
The pertinent terms of all proposed charters and all proposed liner bookings, regardless of whether any portion of ocean freight is financed by CCC, must be submitted to the Director for review and approval before fixture of the vessel. Tentative advance vessel approvals may be obtained by telephone provided Form CCC-105, “Ocean Shipment Data—Pub. L. 480 (Request for Vessel Approval)”, is furnished promptly confirming the information supplied by telephone. The Form CCC-105 shall be submitted in duplicate to the Director.
(d)
Advice of vessel approval.
(1) USDA will give written approval of charters and liner bookings on Form CCC-106, “Advice of Vessel Approval.” The Form CCC-106 will state whether CCC will finance any part of the ocean freight. For f.a.s. or f.o.b. shipments, CCC will issue a signed original of Form CCC-106 to the ocean carrier when CCC finances any part of the ocean freight. For c.
f. or c.i.f. shipments, CCC will issue Form CCC-106 to the supplier of commodity.
(2) If CCC agrees to finance any portion of the ocean freight, the participant or its agent shall forward a copy of the ocean freight contract immediately after execution to the Director for review and approval prior to issuance of Form CCC-106.
(3) CCC may also require the supplier of ocean transportation to submit copies of lightening, stevedoring, or bagging contracts for any voyage for which CCC finances ocean freight or ocean freight differential.
(e)
Special charter party provisions required when any part of ocean freight is financed by CCC.
This paragraph applies when CCC finances any part of the ocean freight for commodities booked on charter terms. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the regulations in this part and the charter party or ocean bills of lading issued pursuant thereto, the provisions of the regulations in this part shall prevail. The charter party shall contain or, for the purpose of financing pursuant to the regulations in this part, be deemed to contain the following provisions:
(1) That if there is any failure on the part of the supplier of ocean transportation to perform the charter party after the vessel has tendered at the loading port, the charterer shall be entitled to incur all expenses which in the judgment of the General Sales Manager are required to enable the vessel to carry out her obligations under the charter party including, but not limited to, expenses for lifting any liens asserted against the vessel.
(2) That, notwithstanding any prior assignments of freight made by the owner or operator, the expenses authorized in paragraph (e)(1) of this section may be deducted from the freight earned under the charter party.
(3) That ocean freight is earned and that 100% thereof is payable by the charterers when the vessel and cargo arrive at the first port of discharge, subject to paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and to the further condition that if a force majeure as described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section results in the loss of part of the vessel's cargo, 100% of the ocean freight is payable on the part so lost. This provision does not relieve the carrier of the obligation to carry to other points of discharge if so required by the charter party.
(4) That if a force majeure as described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section prevents the vessel's arrival at the first port of discharge, the freight shall be payable by the charterer at the time the General Sales Manager determines that such force majeure was the cause of nonarrival.
(5) That laydays are non-reversible.
(6) That in a dispute involving any rights and obligations of CCC, including rights and obligations as successor or assignee, which cannot be settled by agreement, the dispute shall not be subject to arbitration.
(f)
Special charter party information required when any part of ocean freight is financed by CCC.
When CCC finances any part of the ocean freight for commodities booked on charter terms, the charter party shall contain the following information:
(1) The name of each party participating in the ocean freight brokerage commission, if any, and the percentage thereof payable to each party;
(2) The name of the vessel and the name of the substitute vessel, if any.
(g)
Notice of arrival.
Each Form CCC-106 will indicate whether a notice of arrival is required. A notice of arrival, when required, must be furnished promptly by the participant or its designated agent or other source acceptable to CCC (excluding the carrier or its agent) and must include the name of the vessel, the purchase authorization number, the first port of discharge, and the date of arrival. The notice of arrival of the vessel also constitutes prima facie evidence of arrival of the cargo.
(h)
Foreign flag vessels.
The cost of ocean transportation will be financed by CCC on non-U.S. flag vessels only when, and to the extent, specifically provided in the applicable purchase authorization.
(i)
U.S.-flag vessels.
When a commodity is required to be shipped on a privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessel, Form CCC-106 will set forth:
(1) The rate of the ocean freight differential, if any, which the Director determines to exist between the prevailing foreign-flag vessel rate and the U.S.-flag vessel rate; and
(2) The approximate tonnage for which CCC will authorize reimbursement of ocean freight or ocean freight differential, as appropriate.
(j)
Items not eligible for financing by CCC.
The following costs will not be financed by CCC, either separately or as part of the commodity contract price:
(1) Loading, trimming, and other related shipping expenses unless included in the ocean freight rate;
(2) Discharge costs unless included in the ocean freight rate;
(3) The cost of “dead freight”;
(4) Cargo dues and taxes assessed by the importing or recipient country;
(5) Surcharges assessed by steamship conferences or carriers, unless specifically authorized by the Director;
(6) General average contributions;
(7) Stevedoring overtime and vessel crew overtime;
(8) Ship's disbursements;
(9) Any payments prohibited in § 17.6 (b) and (c); and
(10) Detention.
(k)
General financing provisions.
When any part of ocean freight will be financed either separately or as part of the commodity contract price, the following shall apply:
(1) Ocean freight contracts must show the ocean freight rate from one loading port to one discharge port, and may provide for an increase in rate for an additional port of loading or discharge, or other option. CCC, however, will finance initially the lowest such rate or OFD, as appropriate. Increased amounts due because of the exercise of such option will be financed only after receipt of an ocean bill of lading or other evidence showing that the option was exercised.
(2) In the case of transshipment to a foreign flag vessel, CCC will finance the ocean freight or OFD, as appropriate, only to the point of transshipment, at a rate determined by the GSM, and CCC will not finance any part of the ocean freight beyond the point of transshipment unless specifically approved by the GSM. If the commodity was transported from a U.S. port and was transshipped at another U.S. port, CCC will not finance, without prior approval of the GSM, any part of the ocean freight incurred before transshipment.
(3) The ocean freight rate eligible for CCC financing and the rate used for the U.S.-flag vessel in calculating ocean freight differential shall not exceed the following rates for the category of the vessel concerned:
(i) For commodities covered by published tariff rates—the published conference contract rate;
(ii) For other commodities—the market rate prevailing at the time of request for approval as determined by the Director, but in any event not in excess of rates charged other shippers (irrespective of booking dates) for like commodities on the voyage concerned.
(4) Payment will be made for ocean freight or OFD, as appropriate, from loading points to discharge points at rates approved by the Director on Form CCC-106 in conformity with paragraph (k)(3) of this section.
(5) Freight for a vessel designated on Form CCC-106 as a U.S. flag vessel shall not be eligible for financing unless such vessel complies with the provisions of Pub. L. 87-266.
(6) Ocean freight contracts must specify that the participant shall be liable for detention of the vessel for loading delays attributable solely to the decision of the supplier of ocean transportation not to commence loading because of the failure of the participant to establish an ocean freight letter of credit in accordance with paragraph (a)(5) of this section. However, ocean freight contracts may not contain a specified detention rate. The ocean transportation supplier shall be entitled to reimbursement for detention costs for all time so lost, for each calendar day or any part of the calendar day, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. The period of such delay shall not commence earlier than upon presentation of the vessel at the designated loading port within the laydays specified in the ocean freight contract, and upon notification of the vessel's readiness to load in accordance with the terms of the applicable ocean freight contract. The period of such delay shall end at the time that operable irrevocable letters of credit have been established for the applicable ocean freight or the time the vessel begins loading, whichever is earlier. Time calculated as detention shall not count as laytime. Reimbursement for such detention shall be payable no later than upon the vessel's arrival at the first port of discharge.
(l)
Force majeure.
(1) The GSM will waive the requirement for the notice of arrival required by Form CCC-106 by a written notice to the supplier of ocean transportation on the receipt of evidence satisfactory to the General Sales Manager that the vessel is lost or unable to proceed to destination after completion of loading as a result of one
or more of the following causes: Damage caused by perils of the sea or other waters; collisions; wrecks; stranding without the fault of the carrier; jettison; fire from any cause; Act of God; public enemies or pirates; arrest or restraint of princes, rulers or peoples without the fault of the supplier of ocean transportation; wars; public disorders; captures; or detention by public authority in the interest of public safety. The supplier may substitute such waiver for the notice of arrival.
(2) The determination of a force majeure by the GSM shall not relieve the participant from its obligation under the Agricultural Commodities Agreement to pay CCC, when due, the dollar amount of ocean freight, plus interest (exclusive of ocean freight differential), financed by CCC.
(m)
Demurrage/despatch.
CCC will not finance demurrage and CCC will not share in despatch earnings. Owners and commodity suppliers will settle laytime accounts at load port(s) and owners and charterers will settle laytime accounts at discharge port(s). Under no circumstances shall CCC be responsible for resolving disputes involving calculation of laytime or the payment of demurrage or despatch.
(n)
Ocean freight included in the commodity contract price.
For cost and freight or c.i.f. contracts the ocean freight, or the ocean freight differential, as appropriate, will be financed only to the extent specifically provided in the applicable purchase authorization.
(o)
Separate freight contracts.
Contracts for ocean transportation, under a purchase authorization which limits delivery terms to f.o.b. or f.a.s., must be separate and apart from the contracts for the commodity.
§ 17.9
CCC payment to suppliers.
(a)
General.
(1) The supplier shall request payment from CCC for the amount of the commodity price or the ocean freight or ocean freight differential to be financed by CCC.
(2) The supplier shall support such a request for payment by presenting to CCC the documents required by this section, the purchase authorization, and the IFB, unless such documents were previously submitted to CCC. Such documents, however, need not be submitted when and to the extent that the Controller determines that the intended purpose of a document is served by documents otherwise available to or under the control of CCC or by alternate documents specified in such determination.
(3) CCC will examine each document to ascertain that it is in accordance with this part, the purchase authorization, and the IFB. CCC will audit all the required documents to ensure accuracy, completeness, and consistency. When CCC has determined that all required documents have been submitted and that the documents are acceptable for payment, CCC will pay the supplier for the commodity price or the ocean freight or ocean freight differential to be financed by CCC which is supported by the documents.
(4) CCC is required to issue all payments by electronic transfer. Each supplier submitting documents to CCC for payment must provide the name of the company, the bank ABA number to which payment is to be made, the account number for the company at the bank, the company's Taxpayer Identification Number, and the type of account being used.
(b)
General documentation requirements.
The supplier must put the appropriate purchase authorization number on all required documents which are prepared under the supplier's control, and should arrange for the appropriate purchase authorization number to be put on all other required documents at the time of their preparation.
(c)
Documents required for payment—commodity.
The general provisions relating to such documents are as follows. Additional requirements for payment to commodity suppliers for
c.
f. or c.i.f. sales are contained in paragraph (c)(8) of this section.
(1)
Supplier's certificate.
A signed original of Form CCC-329 “Supplier's Certificate” from the commodity supplier covering the net invoice price for the commodity.
(2)
Supplier's detailed invoice.
Two copies of the supplier's detailed invoice showing quantity, description, contracted price, net total invoice price expressed in dollars, the amount for which financing is requested from CCC,
the amount not eligible for financing by CCC, and basis of delivery of the commodity (e.g., f.o.b. vessel). In arriving at the net invoice price there shall be deducted:
(i) All discounts from the supplier's contracted price through payments, credits, or other allowances made or to be made to the importer, the importer's agent or consignee;
(ii) All purchasing agents' commissions;
(iii) All other amounts not eligible for financing.
(3)
Additional payment.
A request for an additional payment submitted for a transaction for which all or part of the required documents have been previously submitted to CCC shall be supported by a Form CCC-329 “Supplier's Certificate” and the supplier's detailed invoice, covering the additional amount requested. The supplier's invoice must show the date, serial number and the amount of the original invoice and the basis for the additional amount claimed.
(4)
Weight certificate.
The weight certificate shall be issued by or on authority of a State or other governmental weighing department, Chamber of Commerce, Board of Trade, Grain Exchange, or other independent organization or firm providing public weighing services. Such organization or firm must have:
(i) Qualified, impartial, paid employees who are stationed at the port facility or, if authorized under the applicable purchase authorization, other facility where weights customarily are determined, one of whom performed the weighing covered by the certificate; or
(ii) Qualified, independent, impartial, supervised, weighmasters stationed at the port facility or, if authorized under the applicable purchase authorization, other facility where weights are customarily determined, one of whom supervised the employee of such a facility in the performance of the weighing covered by the certificate.
(5)
Federal appeal inspection.
The official certificate representing the results of an appeal inspection, when included in the documents presented for payment, shall supersede any other inspection certificate required by this part, the applicable purchase authorization, the IFB or the contract.
(6)
Form CCC-359.
(i) Form FAS-359, “Declaration of Sale,” signed for the GSM, is the written document by which USDA notified the supplier that the sale was approved for financing. The supplier shall submit Form FAS-359 to CCC with the documents covering the first transaction under the contract. The unit price shown on the supplier's invoice must not exceed the approved unit price shown on the Form FAS-359.
(ii) For subsequent transactions under the same contract, the supplier shall certify on the CCC copy of the detailed invoice as follows:
I hereby certify that the applicable Form FAS-359 was submitted to CCC with documents covering Invoice No. ______ dated ________ for $______.
(7)
Bill of lading.
Four copies of the ocean bill of lading.
(8)
C.
.f. or c.i.f. sales.
In addition to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) through (7) of this section, the following requirements apply for c.
f. or c.i.f. sales:
(i) Signed original of Form CCC-106.
(ii) The supplier's detailed invoice shall show a computation of the dollar amount of ocean freight differential, whenever the Form CCC-106 provides for an ocean freight differential on a cost and freight or c.i.f. sale and authorizes financing of any portion of ocean freight by CCC. In arriving at the net invoice price the supplier shall deduct the ocean freight, or portion thereof which is not being financed by CCC.
(iii) One nonnegotiable copy of the insurance certificate or policy where the cost of insurance is included in the price of the commodity to be financed by CCC.
(iv) A request for an additional payment shall also include a statement signed by the ship's master or owner (or agent of either of them) showing exercise of the higher-rated option, if the payment is stated to be due because of the exercise of a higher-rated option provided in an ocean freight contract.
(d)
Documents required for payment—ocean freight financed separately from commodity price
—(1)
Supplier's certificate.
A signed original of Form CCC-
329, “Supplier's Certificate”, executed by the carrier or its agent, covering the dollar cost of ocean freight or ocean freight differential.
(2)
Ocean bill of lading.
One copy of the ocean bill of lading and, if required by the related Form CCC-106, a notice of arrival at the first port of discharge of the vessel named in the Form CCC-106. In lieu of a notice of arrival the carrier may present a waiver of the notice of arrival signed by the GSM or Controller.
(3)
Invoice.
One copy of the carrier's invoice which shows the total freight costs, the amount not eligible for financing by CCC, and the amount for which payment is requested from CCC. If the invoice relates to a U.S.-flag vessel, such invoice shall contain the following typed or stamped certification, executed by the supplier:
The undersigned hereby certifies that the vessel named herein and for which ocean freight is claimed, qualifies as a privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessel within the requirements of Pub. L. 87-266 and is an eligible U.S.-flag vessel for the purposes of Pub. L. 664, 83rd Congress.
(4)
Form CCC-106.
Signed original of Form CCC-106.
(5)
Ocean freight contract.
One copy of the ocean freight contract.
(6)
Higher rated option.
A request for payment of any amounts claimed because of the exercise of a higher rated option following payment of a lower rated option pursuant to § 17.8(k)(1) shall be supported by the following documents:
(i) One copy of the carrier's invoice as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section except for the certification required therein.
(ii) The Form CCC-329, “Supplier's Certificate”, for the balance claimed.
(iii) A statement signed by the ship's master, owner, or owner's agent, and signed laytime statements or other written concurrence of charterer or the charterer's agent showing the exercise of the higher rated option.
(e)
Payment of freight by CCC prior to the vessel's arrival at the discharge port.
(1) Upon request by the supplier, CCC may pay the ocean freight or ocean freight differential to be financed by CCC before the vessel arrives at the first port of discharge if the supplier furnishes CCC financial coverage in the form of an acceptable letter of credit from a U.S. bank.
(2) The amount of security required by CCC under paragraph (e)(1) of this section may be computed by multiplying the ocean freight rate or ocean freight differential rate financed by CCC as shown on the related Form CCC-106 times either:
(i) The tonnage shown on the related bill of lading, if the bill of lading is furnished to CCC; or
(ii) The tonnage stated in the ocean freight contract (without tolerance).
(3) On receipt of an acceptable letter of credit, the Controller will issue a waiver of the notice of arrival which is required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(f)
Advice of amount financed.
CCC will forward advice of payment to the participant.
§ 17.10
Refunds and insurance.
(a)
Participant—failure to comply.
The participant shall pay in U.S. dollars promptly to CCC on demand by the General Sales Manager the entire amount financed by CCC (or such lesser amount as the GSM may demand) whenever the GSM determines that the participant has failed to comply with any agreement or commitment made by the participant in connection with the transaction financed or with the applicable Agricultural Commodities Agreement between the U.S. and the participant.
(b)
Adjustment refunds.
All claims by importers for adjustment refunds arising out of terms of the contract or out of the normal customs of the trade, including arbitration and appeal awards, allowances, and claims for overpayment of ocean transportation, if such refunds relate to amounts financed by CCC, shall be settled by payment in U.S. dollars and such payment shall be remitted by the supplier to CCC. The remittance shall be identified with the date and amount of the original payment and the applicable purchase authorization number.
(c)
Insurance on c.i.f. sales.
The provisions of this paragraph apply only to transactions under purchase authorizations that specifically authorize c.i.f. sales in which the cost of insurance is
included in the net c.i.f. invoice price of the commodity financed. When the supplier furnishes insurance in favor of or for the account of the importer, the policies or certificates of insurance shall include a loss payable clause which provides that all claims shall be paid in U.S. dollars to the Controller. Such payments shall be accompanied by advice of the purchase authorization number, the names and addresses of the supplier and importer, the nature of the claim, the quantity of the commodity involved in the claim, the date of shipment, the bill of lading number, and the name of the vessel. CCC will credit the account of the participant or will refund local currency in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(d)
Refund of ineligible amounts.
If a sale has been financed and CCC determines that the sales price exceeds the price permissible under § 17.5(b)(4), or that the sale is otherwise ineligible for financing, in whole or in part, the supplier shall refund in dollars such excess price or ineligible amount to CCC promptly on demand. If not promptly refunded, such amount may be set off by CCC against monies it owes to the supplier. The making of any such refund to CCC, or any such setoff by CCC shall not prejudice the right of the supplier to challenge such determination in a court action brought against CCC for recovery of the amount refunded or set off.
(e)
Refund of local currency or reduction of amount due.
Immediately after receipt by CCC of U.S. dollar payment from suppliers, or from or for the account of the participant under this section, CCC will provide for payment to the participant of the local currency equivalent of dollars received, if such local currency has been deposited for the particular transaction, or will credit the participant's account as follows:
(1) For payments under this section, except paragraph (a), the local currency refunded will be at the exchange rate agreed to by the Government of the United States and the participant in effect at the time the local currency is paid to or for the account of the importer, except that if there has been a change in the exchange system or structure of the importing country or the destination country, such payment shall be made at the agreed exchange rate which was in effect on the date of dollar disbursement for the transaction financed, and except further that local currency shall not be paid when the dollars are to be reauthorized for replacement of the commodity.
(2) For payment under paragraph (a) of this section, the local currency refunded will be at the agreed exchange rate in effect on the date of the dollar disbursement for the transaction financed:
Provided,
that local currency will not be refunded to the extent that deposits of such currency have been made available to the participant on a grant basis.
(3) For refunds received by CCC under long-term credit agreements the participant's account shall be credited with the dollar amount refunded or otherwise recovered, and the participant notified accordingly.
§ 17.11
Recordkeeping and access to records.
Suppliers and agents of the participant or importer shall keep accurate books, records and accounts with respect to all contracts entered into hereunder, including those pertaining to ocean transportation-related services and records of all payments by suppliers to representatives of the importer or participant, if CCC finances any part of the ocean freight. Suppliers and agents shall permit authorized representatives of the U.S. Government to have access to their premises during regular hours to inspect, examine, audit and make copies of such books, records and accounts. Suppliers and agents shall retain such records until the expiration of three years after final payment under such contracts.
Pt. 18

# PART 18—EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY IN THE STATE COOPERATIVE EXTENSION SERVICES
Sec.
18.1
Definitions.
18.2
Purpose, applicability and coverage.
18.3
Development and adoption of equal employment opportunity programs.
18.4
Elements of program.
18.5
Formal complaint procedure.
18.6
[Reserved]
18.7
Reports.
18.8
Noncompliance.
18.9
Sanctions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, and secs. 1-10, 38 Stat. 372, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 341-349.

# Source:
33 FR 12173, Aug. 29, 1968, unless otherwise noted.
§ 18.1
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
(a)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or his designee.
(b)
Cooperative Extension Service
means the Cooperative Extension Service of each Land-Grant University.
(c)
President
means the President or chief executive of each Land-Grant University or his designee.
(d)
Discrimination
includes discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, or religion.
(e)
Employment
includes hiring, assignment, transfer, promotion, compensation, discipline, and discharge and all other conditions, terms and privileges of employment.
(f)
Program
means a comprehensive Equal Employment Opportunity plan submitted by a President in satisfaction of the requirements of § 18.3.
§ 18.2
Purpose, applicability and coverage.
(a)
Purpose.
This part provides a cooperative procedure involving the President and Secretary to assure that the Cooperative Extension Service provides equal opportunity in employment to each individual without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, or religion.
(b)
Applicability.
The regulations in this part apply to every Land-Grant University operating a Cooperative Extension Service.
(c)
Coverage.
This part applies to all positions in all units of the Cooperative Extension Service but does not apply to employees provided by county and other political subdivisions in support of Cooperative Extension Service programs.
[33 FR 12173, Aug. 29, 1968, as amended at 38 FR 14154, May 8, 1973]
§ 18.3
Development and adoption of equal employment opportunity programs.
(a)
Submission.
Within 90 days after the effective date of this part, the President shall furnish to the Secretary a positive continuing program to assure that employment is provided without discrimination.
(b)
Development.
The President and the Secretary may consult with each other at any time regarding the development and evaluation of the program in order to better effectuate the purpose of this part. The program may be a part of a general program establishing employment procedures for employees of the university and may cover other rights and privileges of employees.
(c)
Concurrence.
The Secretary may concur with the program proposed by the President. If the Secretary does not concur with the proposed program, he shall inform the President and make suggestions for improvement. The President will have 30 days thereafter to furnish a satisfactory proposal.
(d)
Amendment.
After concurrence has been obtained on the program, the President may make recommendations to amend the program to improve its effectiveness and furnish them to the Secretary for concurrence. If the Secretary, at any time finds that a program, as implemented, does not achieve the purposes described in § 18.2, he shall confer with the President concerning needed improvements and changes. The President will furnish a satisfactory amendment to the Secretary within 30 days for concurrence.
(e)
Effective date.
The program or amendments to it shall be made effective by the President not later than 30 days from the date of concurrence.
§ 18.4
Elements of program.
A satisfactory program shall include:
(a) A statement of policy prohibiting discrimination in employment;
(b) An administrative procedure enforcing that policy;
(c) A positive affirmative action plan designed to assure equal opportunity in employment;
(d) A procedure for identifying and eliminating employment practices
tending to create or continue discrimination in employment;
(e) A procedure for evaluating the success of the program;
(f) Adequate provision for publicizing the program including dissemination of information to all those covered by these regulations;
(g) A procedure for prompt processing of complaints assuring no less than minimum rights prescribed in § 18.5;
(h) Adequate provisions for the protection of complainants, employees, witnesses, and representatives from interference, harassment, intimidation and reprisal;
(i) A procedure for the informal resolution of complaints; and,
(j) A procedure for recording receipt and disposition of all complaints. A report of the receipt and a report of the disposition of all formal complaints will be sent promptly to the Secretary.
§ 18.5
Formal complaint procedure.
A procedure shall be provided for the filing of a formal written complaint if a complainant is not satisfied with the result of informal procedure or if the complainant does not desire to follow the informal procedure. A complaint procedure shall contain the following minimum provisions for the processing of formal complaints.
(a)
Elements of the formal complaint.
The formal complaint shall be in writing and state the name and address of the complainant; the basis of the claim; and indicate whether the alleged discrimination was based on race, color, national origin, sex, or religion.
(b)
Time limits for processing.
The procedure will include time limits for the orderly processing of complaints.
(c)
Who may file.
A complaint may be filed by an employee, a former employee, or an applicant for employment who believes that discrimination in employment has been practiced against him or that an employment practice in the Cooperative Extension Service has or will result in discrimination in employment against him. An employee, a former employee, or an applicant for employment, or an organization may file a complaint of general discriminatory practices:
Provided, however,
That upon request of the President, the complainant shall furnish to him names of individuals who are adversely affected by those practices.
(d)
Right of representation.
A complainant may designate in writing, an individual or an organization to represent him in the processing of his complaint, and is entitled to the advice of counsel at his expense at all stages of the proceeding. If the representative designated by the complainant is an employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or of a Cooperative Extension Service, such employee, as well as an employee-complainant, shall have a reasonable amount of official time with pay, if he is in a pay status, for the purpose of appearing at any hearing on the complaint or conciliation effort. The rights and privileges set forth in this paragraph shall also be available to any person whose alleged conduct is the cause of the complaint.
(e)
Where filed.
The procedure shall clearly state the persons, and their locations, with whom complaints may be filed. It shall also state that complaints may be filed with the Secretary. Complaints filed with the Secretary shall be promptly forwarded to the President or his designee for processing.
(f)
When filed.
A complaint shall be submitted within 90 days of the conduct giving rise to the complaint. The President may extend the prescribed time limit for good cause shown by the complainant.
(g)
Hearing.
A complainant or the President may request a hearing which shall be transcribed or recorded. The hearing shall be conducted promptly during regular working hours in the county where the alleged discrimination occurred or at a time and place agreed to by the President and the complainant. The President, the complainant and any person whose alleged conduct is the cause of the complaint shall have the right to call and cross-examine witnesses under oath. The hearing shall be provided by the President, and shall be conducted by an impartial board or hearing officer who shall promptly submit a proposed decision including findings of fact, conclusions, and recommendations for action to the President.
(h)
Decision by the President.
The President shall review the entire file
on the complaint, including the record of the hearing if a hearing was held, and shall promptly:
(1) Remand to the hearing board or officer for further action; or
(2) Make a decision on the complaint; or
(3) Otherwise dispose of the complaint.
The President shall notify the complainant of his decision or disposition.
[33 FR 12173, Aug. 29, 1968, as amended at 38 FR 14154, May 30, 1973]
§ 18.6
[Reserved]
§ 18.7
Reports.
Within 6 months of the program going into effect and thereafter at least annually, the President shall submit a summary report to the Secretary on implementation and operation of the program. The Secretary may request additional reports as he deems advisable.
§ 18.8
Noncompliance.
A university conducting a Cooperative Extension Service will be in violation of this part:
(a) If the President fails to file a program in which the Secretary concurs under § 18.3, or fails to file an appropriate amendment in accordance with § 18.3(d);
(b) If after concurrence in the President's program the Secretary finds that a university has failed to administer such program according to its terms;
(c) If the Secretary finds that any officer of the university has intimidated, coerced, or improperly pressured a complainant, employee, representative, or witness exercising the rights given him by this part or any program adopted pursuant thereto, and that corrective action has not been taken.
[33 FR 12173, Aug. 29, 1968, as amended at 38 FR 14154, May 30, 1973]
§ 18.9
Sanctions.
(a) When the Secretary finds that any noncompliance with this part has occurred, he may initiate action to refuse to authorize payment of funds for the Cooperative Extension Service, or take other appropriate action provided by law.
(b) The remedies available to the Secretary under this part, and remedies made available to any person under a program adopted pursuant to this part do not exclude any others which may be available under law.
PART 19 [RESERVED]
Pt. 20

# PART 20—EXPORT SALES REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Sec.
20.1
General.
20.2
Administration.
20.3
Delegation of authority.
20.4
Definitions.
20.5
Announcements.
20.6
Submission of reports.
20.7
Confidentiality of reports.
20.8
Failure to report.
20.9
Records.
20.10
Place of submission of reports.
20.11
Additional reports and information.
20.12
OMB control number assigned pursuant to Paperwork Reduction Act.
Appendix A to Part 20—Commodities Subject to Reports, Units of Measure To Be Used in Reporting, and Beginning and Ending Dates of Marketing Years

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 5712.

# Source:
Rev. 2, 40 FR 23839, June 3, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.1
General.
The regulations of this part 20 are issued under section 404 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended, to implement the export sales reporting requirements of section 602 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended.
[56 FR 32951, July 18, 1991]
§ 20.2
Administration.
The regulations of this part will be administered by the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) under the general supervision of the Administrator, FAS. Information pertaining to these regulations may be obtained from the office specified in § 20.10.
[Amdt. 3, 45 FR 8562, Feb. 8, 1980]
§ 20.3
Delegation of authority.
Authority has been delegated to the Administrator to promulgate amendments and revisions to the regulations in this part.
[Amdt. 3, 45 FR 8562, Feb. 8, 1980]
§ 20.4
Definitions.
As used in these regulations and in all instructions, forms, and documents pertaining hereto, the words and phrases defined in this section shall have the meaning assigned to them as follows:
(a)
Administrator.
The Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(b)
Buy-back contract.
A transaction under which a reporting exporter having sold a commodity for export to a foreign buyer liquidates the export sale contract by making an offsetting purchase of the same kind of commodity from the same foreign buyer.
(c)
Commodity.
Wheat and wheat flour, feed grains, oilseeds, cotton, rice, cattle hides and skins, beef and pork, and any products thereof, and any other agricultural commodity the Secretary may designate. “Commodity” shall also mean a commodity having identifying characteristics as described in any announcement issued pursuant to § 20.5 such as class(es) of wheat and rice, or staple length(s) of cotton. Mixed wheat shall be considered to be the predominant wheat class of the blend. This definition excludes commodities to be used for seed which have been treated in such a manner that their use is limited to seed for planting purposes or on which a certificate has been issued by a recognized seed testing laboratory setting forth variety, germination and purity.
(d)
Country of destination.
(1) Any country outside the United States or (2) any territory or possession of the United States. Country of destination shall be the ultimate destination of the export, and shall not be deemed to be the country through which any transshipment takes place.
(e)
Export.
A shipment of a commodity from the United States destined to a country specified in paragraph (d) of this section. The commodity shall be deemed to have been exported on the date of the applicable export carrier onboard bill of lading or the date the commodity is received for shipment, as specified on the bill of lading, in the case of a commodity received for shipment in a lash barge or containerized van if a through on-board bill of lading is issued for shipment to a country specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f)
Export carrier.
The vessel on which a commodity is exported from the United States to a country specified in paragraph (d) of this section, or if export is by railcar, truck, or airplane, “export carrier” means such railcar, truck, or airplane.
(g)
Exports for exporter's own account.
A transaction involving shipments made by the reporting exporter which are unsold at the time of export, shipments on consignment to selling agents of the reporting exporter for subsequent sale for the account of the reporting exporter, shipments by the reporting exporter that have not been allocated to any outstanding export sale, and shipments from the United States to any foreign country in bond for subsequent shipment to a third country.
(h)
Export sale.
A transaction entered into between a reporting exporter and a foreign buyer. The transaction must be represented by a written document evidencing that (1) the exporter agrees to export the commodity, (2) the foreign buyer agrees to receive the commodity, (3) a fixed price or an agreed upon mechanism by which such a price can be determined is established, and (4) payment will be made to or for the account of the reporting exporter by or on the behalf of the foreign buyer for delivery of the commodity. The quantity of “outstanding export sale” means the quantity not yet exported under an export sale. The terms of delivery specified in the written agreement, such as FAS vessel, FOB vessel, C
F, CIF, etc., do not determine whether a transaction is an export sale which must be reported. A transaction which otherwise meets this definition and is subject to the posting of an exporter performance bond or letter of credit from the foreign buyer is included in this definition and such a transaction shall be reported under
these regulations. However, a transaction which becomes operative only upon the imposition of export controls is excluded from this definition of “export sale” and such a transaction shall not be reported under these regulations.
(i)
Foreign buyer and foreign seller.
A person whose place of doing business with respect to the transaction is outside the United States. Foreign buyer or foreign seller includes a person who maintains a place of doing business outside the United States even though the transaction is concluded in the United States by his agent who has a place of business in the United States or by his employee who does not maintain a place of doing business in the United States. (If such employee maintains a place of doing business in the United States with respect to the transaction, the resulting contract is construed to be a domestic sale.) Notwithstanding the foregoing, all foreign governments, agencies and instrumentalities are considered foreign buyers or foreign sellers even though transactions are concluded by their employees in the United States or they maintain a place of business with respect to the transaction in the United States.
(j)
Marketing year.
The reporting period specified for a commodity in appendix A to this part.
(k)
Optional origin contracts.
A transaction involving an export sale contract between a reporting exporter and a foreign buyer under which the reporting exporter has the option of exporting the commodity from the United States or from one or more other exporting countries or an export sale contract under which no origin is specified.
(l)
Person.
An individual, partnership, corporation, association or other legal entity.
(m)
Purchases from foreign sellers.
A transaction involving the purchase of a commodity from a seller whose place of business with respect to the transaction is outside the United States.
(n)
Quantity.
The actual contract quantity (exclusive of any upward or downward tolerance) specified in the agreement between the reporting exporter and foreign buyer or seller.
(o)
Reporting exporter.
A person who enters into a transaction referred to in this section whose place of doing business with respect to such transaction is in the United States. A reporting exporter shall include any person who sells a commodity to a foreign buyer irrespective of whether or not such person may appear as the shipper on the export documentation or whether or not such person is required to file a Shipper's Export Declaration. A reporting exporter would not normally include agents of either the reporting exporter or foreign buyer, brokers, or freight forwarders unless such agents, brokers or freight forwarders are acting in the capacity of a principal. (See examples § 20.6(c).)
(p)
United States.
All of the 50 States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.
[Rev. 2, 40 FR 23839, June 3, 1975, as amended by Amdt. 1, 41 FR 19950, May 14, 1976; Amdt. 3, 45 FR 8562, Feb. 8, 1980; Amdt. 4, 45 FR 24104, Apr. 9, 1980; 68 FR 62214, Nov. 3, 2003; 78 FR 16778, Mar. 19, 2013; 84 FR 64704, Nov. 25, 2019]
§ 20.5
Announcements.
Commodities for which reports are required under these regulations are set forth in appendix A to this part. Any change therein will be made by publication in the
Federal Register
of an amendment thereto, and, in addition, announcement of such change will be made through the press service. The unit of measure to be used in reporting the commodity, the beginning and ending dates of the marketing year for each commodity, and any other information deemed necessary to be included in the report will be specified in appendix A to this part and amendments thereto and in the announcements through press service.
[Rev. 2, 40 FR 23839, June 3, 1975, as amended at 68 FR 62214, Nov. 3, 2003; 84 FR 64704, Nov. 25, 2019]
§ 20.6
Submission of reports.
(a)
Weekly reports.
For each commodity for which reports are required under these regulations, the reporting exporter shall file weekly with the office specified in § 20.10 and not later than the time specified in paragraph
(k) of this section, a report by marketing year on the applicable forms contained in appendix 2 (FAS-97, “Report of Optional Origin Sales,” FAS-98, “Report of Export Sales and Exports,” and on FAS-100, “Report of Exports for Exporter's Own Account”), setting forth the following information and that required by such forms. Information for each applicable item on the respective form shall be reported. If the reporting exporter determines that the report forms cannot be received in the office specified in “20.10 by the time specified in paragraph (k) of this section, the exporter shall transmit the information contained in the report forms by the use of FAX, telephone, or electronic submission. The required form must be subsequently submitted in accordance with § 20.6(k)(2). Exporters have the option to submit the weekly reports using an electronic reporting system (forms 97e, 98e, and 100e) which may be accessed via a secured Internet website. Reporting exporters should contact the Export Sales Reporting staff to obtain passwords and access to the Internet reporting site. Exporters also have the option of satisfying the requirements of Forms FAS-97, FAS-98, and FAS-100 by submitting ASCII comma delimited files via e-mail to the ESR mailbox at
esr@fas.usda.gov.
(1)
United States origin sales only.
(i) Total quantity of outstanding export sales from the previous report by country of destination.
(ii) Quantity of new export sales made during the week expressed in the specified unit of measure (do not include any tolerance). Include the quantity of any optional original export sale for which an option was exercised during the week to export the commodity from the United States.
(iii) Quantity of any purchases of the same kind of commodity made from foreign sellers during the week.
(iv) Quantity of export sales cancelled and quantity of buyback contracts made during the week.
(v) Changes in destination during the week for export sales previously reported.
(vi) Changes in the marketing year during the week for export sales previously reported.
(vii) Exports made against export sales during the week.
(viii) Total outstanding balance of export sales at the close of business for the current report.
(2)
Optional origin sales
(
United States and other countries
). (i) Total quantity of outstanding export sales from the previous report by country of destination.
(ii) Quantity of new export sales made during the week expressed in the specified unit of measure (do not include any tolerance) by country of destination.
(iii) Quantity of export sales for which an option was exercised during the week which would determine the origin of the commodity to be exported with the origin indicated as the United States or other than the United States.
(iv) Quantity of optional export sales cancelled and the quantity of optional buy-back contracts made during the week.
(v) Changes in destination during the week for sales previously reported.
(vi) Changes in the marketing year during the week for sales previously reported.
(vii) Total outstanding balance of optional export sales for which an option has not been exercised at the time of compiling the report.
(3)
Exports for exporter's own account.
(i) Total outstanding balance of exports for exporter's own account that has been shipped from the United States as shown on the previous report by country where located or, if in transit, by country of intermediate destination.
(ii) Quantity of new exports for exporter's own account exported during the week.
(iii) Quantity of previously reported exports for exporter's own account that was applied to outstanding or new export sales during the week.
(iv) Quantity of previously reported exports for exporter's own account sold to other U.S. exporters during the week.
(v) Changes in destination during the week for exports previously reported.
(vi) The total outstanding balance of exports for exporter's own account at the close of business for the current report.
(b)
Monthly reports.
The information described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be reported monthly when specified by an announcement issued pursuant to § 20.5. The forms specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be utilized to furnish the information required to be reported monthly and such information shall be filed in the manner and at the time required by § 20.6(k).
(c)
Exporters who are required to report.
The reporting exporter has the sole responsibility of reporting any and all information required by these regulations. The following are examples of who shall be considered the reporting exporter for the purpose of these regulations. (Firm A in each example is a firm whose place of doing business with respect to the transaction is in the United States, and the commodity to be delivered under the purchase contract is subject to these regulations. See § 20.4(i) for definition of a foreign buyer and foreign seller.)
(1) Firm A makes an export sale to Firm B whose place of doing business with respect to the transaction is also in the United States. Firm B has made or will make an export sale to a foreign buyer. In this case Firm A cannot report the sale to Firm B since Firm B's place of doing business with respect to the transaction is located in the United States. In this example, Firm B is required to report the sale to the foreign buyer.
(2) Firm A makes an export sale to a foreign buyer through the foreign buyer's agent and the agent's place of doing business with respect to the transaction is in the United States. In this example Firm A is required to report the export sale since the resulting contract is between Firm A and the foreign buyer.
(3) Firm A consigns an export to his agent (other than an employee of Firm A). When the agent makes a sale to a foreign buyer, Firm A is required to report the sale. If the agent makes the sale to a firm whose place of doing business with respect to the transaction is in the United States, Firm A will not report the sale.
(4) Firm A makes a purchase from a foreign seller. In this example, Firm A is required to report the purchase.
(5) Firm A makes a purchase from an agent of a foreign seller and the agent's place of doing business with respect to the transaction is in the United States. In this example, Firm A is required to report the purchase. The agent is not a principal party in interest in the contract and cannot report the sale to Firm A. The foreign seller is not a reporting exporter and is not required to make a report of the sale.
(6) Firm A, the agent of the foreign buyer, whose place of doing business with respect to the transaction is in the United States, purchases commodities domestically at interior warehouses and arranges for exportation to its principal, the foreign buyer. In this example, Firm A is required to report the sale and export.
(7) If a reporting exporter has a transaction not described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of this paragraph (c) and is in doubt whether a transaction should be reported, the exporter should request a decision from the office specified in § 20.10.
(d)
Contract terms.
Reports of contract terms shall be filed when requested in accordance with § 20.11. The report showing contract terms shall be filed on FAS-99, “Contract Terms Supporting Export Sales and Foreign Purchases,” and shall include the following:
(1) Reporting exporter's contract number.
(2) Date of export sale or purchase.
(3) Name of foreign buyer or foreign seller.
(4) Delivery period specified in the export sale or purchase.
(5) Delivery terms specified in the export sale or purchase (F.O.B., C.
F., etc.).
(6) Actual quantity of the export sale or purchase.
(7) Quantity not exported against the sale or foreign purchase (do not include any tolerance).
(8) Country of destination.
(9) On purchases from foreign sellers, show separately from export sales all items of this paragraph (d).
(e)
Reporting of destination.
The reporting exporters shall report the country of destination specified in the export sale contract or otherwise declared in writing by the foreign buyer.
(Where a government, or agency of such government, is the sole importer of the commodity in a country, the exporter shall report that country as the country of destination only if the exporter or foreign buyer has made a direct sale to that foreign government or agency.) If the country of destination is not so specified or declared, the exporter shall report the destination as “unknown.” If by the time of exportation the exporter has not so ascertained the country of destination, the name of the country reported to the Bureau of Customs of the Shipper's Export Declaration for such export shipment should be reported, even though it may be an intermediate destination. The reporting exporter is not expected to report destination changes made after reporting the export on FAS-98, “Report of Export Sales and Exports.”
(f)
Optional class or kind of commodity.
If the export sale provides for an option as to the class or kind of commodity to be delivered under the export sale, the reporting exporter should report the particular class or kind of commodity expected to be exported.
(g)
Range in contract quantity.
If the export sale provides for a range in quantity (e.g. 10,000 metric tons to 12,000 metric tons with or without a loading tolerance) with the reporting exporter or buyer having the option to declare a firm quantity at a later date, the reporting exporter shall report the maximum export sale quantity (exclusive of any loading tolerance). If an option is exercised for a lesser quantity at a later date, the reporting exporter shall report the reduction as an amendment to an export sale previously reported.
(h)
Transfer of unexported balances
from one marketing year to the next marketing year. If exports against an export sale are not complete by the end of the marketing year in which the commodity is being reported for export, the reporting exporter shall transfer the quantity not exported against the export sale to the next marketing year on the first report submitted after the beginning of the new marketing year.
(i)
Errors on previous reports.
Whenever an exporter discovers an error or is advised by the office specified in § 20.10 of an error on a prior report, the error shall be corrected in the current weekly report to reflect the proper outstanding export sales and exports. The exporter shall also furnish a complete written explanation of such reporting error.
(j)
When reports are required.
(1) A reporting exporter shall submit reports for those commodities for which there are new export sales, outstanding export sales, exports for exporter's own account for which an offsetting export sale has not been made and reported, or purchases from foreign sellers.
(2) A reporting exporter may discontinue reporting for a commodity only when actual exports and other required reporting of changes have reduced to zero all export sales, exports for exporter's own account and purchases from foreign sellers. The reporting exporter shall report a zero balance prior to discontinuing reporting for the commodity involved.
(3) If a reporting exporter discontinues making reports because a zero balance has been reached for a particular commodity, the exporter shall be responsible to commence reporting again once a new export sale, a new export for exporter's own account, or a new purchase from a foreign seller for that commodity is made.
(k)
Manner and time of reporting
—(1) Manner. An original of all report forms, other than electronic forms and ASCII comma delimited files, must be filed with the office specified in § 20.10. Each report form shall contain the full business name, address and telephone number of the reporting exporter and the name and original signature of the person submitting the report form on behalf of the reporting exporter. Computer generated printouts may be used in lieu of standard reporting forms when approved by the office specified in § 20.10.
(2)
Time of filing reports.
Information required to be reported weekly (either via fax, telephone, or electronically) must be received in the office specified in § 20.10 no later than 11:59 p.m. eastern time, on each Monday or such
other time as may be approved in advance by that office. Such weekly report must set forth the required information as to export sales transactions made during the seven day period ending the preceding Thursday, midnight. If Friday or Monday is a national holiday, the due date shall be Tuesday. If information is transmitted by other than use of forms specified in § 20.6(a) (such as by use of telephone or electronic transmission) the required forms containing such information shall be transmitted by first class mail the next business day. It is the responsibility of the reporting exporter to arrange the most efficient and expeditious manner for the office specified in § 20.10 to receive the reported information. Information required to be reported monthly must be received in the office specified in § 20.10 no later than 5:00 p.m., Eastern time, the fourth business day following the end of the reporting month, or such other time as may be approved in advance by that office, setting forth the required information as to export sales transactions made during the reporting month ending midnight the last day of such month.
[Rev. 2, 40 FR 23839, June 3, 1975, as amended by Amdt. 3, 45 FR 8562, Feb. 8, 1980; Amdt. 4, 45 FR 24104, Apr. 9, 1980; 45 FR 24439, Apr. 10, 1980; Amdt. 5, 45 FR 24439, Apr. 10, 1980; 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982; 68 FR 62214, Nov. 3, 2003]
§ 20.7
Confidentiality of reports.
A reporting exporter's individual reports shall remain confidential and subject to examination only by designatees of the Administrator. Information from reports filed by exporters on a weekly basis will be compiled and published in compilation form each week following the week of reporting. Information from daily reports filed by exporters will be made available to the public on the following business day at 9 a.m., eastern time. Information from monthly reports filed by exporters will be compiled and published in compilation form in the weekly report no later than the week following the time of filing specified in § 20.6(k).
[43 FR 5497, Feb. 9, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 3, 45 FR 8562, Feb. 8, 1980; Amdt. 5, 45 FR 24440, Apr. 10, 1980; 68 FR 62215, Nov. 3, 2003]
§ 20.8
Failure to report.
Any person who knowingly fails to report export sales pursuant to the requirements of these regulations shall be fined not more than $25,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
§ 20.9
Records.
Each reporting exporter shall establish and maintain accurate records as to all export sales of commodities subject to these regulations. Such records shall include, but shall not be limited to, export sales contracts or other agreements with the foreign buyer or foreign seller pursuant to which any export has or will be made; bills of lading or delivery documents evidencing all such exports and inspection and weight certificates relating thereto. Such records shall be available during regular business hours for inspection and audit by authorized employees of the United States Department of Agriculture and shall be preserved for three years after the date of export to which they relate.
§ 20.10
Place of submission of reports.
Weekly reports and information required to be submitted in connection therewith shall be addressed to or delivered to the following office FAX: (202) 690-3270 or (202) 690-3273:
Foreign Agricultural Service, Export Sales Reporting Division, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
[Amdt. 4, 45 FR 8562, Feb. 8, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 62215, Nov. 3, 2003]
§ 20.11
Additional reports and information.
(a)
Daily reports.
The reporting exporter shall report daily to the Administrator information with respect to sales of agricultural commodities as requested. Daily reports shall be made by telephone no later than 3 p.m., E.s.t., on the next business day following the calendar day of the sale.
(b)
Additional information.
The reporting exporter shall furnish such other additional reports and information, including price data, as may be requested
with respect to export sales of agricultural commodities.
[Rev. 2, 40 FR 23839, June 3, 1975, as amended by Amdt. 3, 45 FR 8562, Feb. 8, 1980]
§ 20.12
OMB control number assigned pursuant to Paperwork Reduction Act.
The information collection requirements contained in these regulations have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB control number 0551-0007.
[51 FR 30203, Aug. 25, 1986]
Pt. 20, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 20—Commodities Subject to Reporting, Units of Measure To Be Used in Reporting, and Beginning and Ending Dates of Marketing Years
Commodity to be reported
Unit of
measure to be used
in reporting
Beginning of
marketing
year
End of
marketing
year
Wheat—hard red winter
Metric Tons
June 1
May 31.
Wheat—soft red winter
Metric Tons
June 1
May 31.
Wheat—hard red spring
Metric Tons
June 1
May 31.
Wheat—white (incl. hard and soft white)
Metric Tons
June 1
May 31.
Wheat—durum
Metric Tons
June 1
May 31.
Wheat—Products—All wheat flours (including clears) bulgur, semolina, farina, and rolled, cracked and crushed wheat
Metric Tons
June 1
May 31.
Barley—Unmilled (including feed and hull-less waxy barley)
Metric Tons
June 1
May 31.
Corn—Unmilled (including waxy, cracked—if 50% whole kernels)
Metric Tons
Sept. 1
Aug. 31.
Rye—Unmilled
Metric Tons
June 1
May 31.
Oats—Unmilled
Metric Tons
June 1
May 31.
Grain Sorghum—Unmilled
Metric Tons
Sept. 1
Aug. 31.
Soybeans
Metric Tons
Sept. 1
Aug. 31.
Soybean Cake and Meal
Metric Tons
Oct. 1
Sept. 30.
Soybean Oil—including: Crude (including degummed), once refined, soybean salad oil (including refined and further processed by bleaching, deodorizing or winterizing), hydrogenated, packaged oil
Metric Tons
Oct. 1
Sept. 30.
Flaxseed
Metric Tons
June 1
May 31.
Linseed Oil—including raw, boiled
Metric Tons
June 1
May 31.
Cottonseed
Metric Tons
Aug. 1
July 31.
Cottonseed Cake and Meal
Metric Tons
Oct. 1
Sept. 30.
Cottonseed Oil—including crude, once refined, cottonseed salad oil (refined and further processed by bleaching, deodorizing or winterizing), hydrogenated
Metric Tons
Oct. 1
Sept. 30.
Sunflowerseed Oil crude, once refined, sunflowerseed salad oil (refined and further processed by bleaching, deodorizing or winterizing), hydrogenated
Metric Tons
Oct. 1
Sept. 30.
Cotton—American Pima—Raw, extra-long staple
Running Bales
Aug. 1
July 31.
Cotton—Upland—Raw, staple length 1
1/16
inches and over
Running Bales
Aug. 1
July 31.
Cotton—Upland—Raw, staple length 1 inch up to 1
1/16
inches
Running Bales
Aug. 1
July 31.
Cotton—Upland—Raw, staple length under 1 inch
Running Bales
Aug. 1
July 31.
Rice—long grain, rough (including parboiled)
Metric Tons
Aug. 1
July 31.
Rice—medium, short and other classes, rough (including parboiled)
Metric Tons
Aug. 1
July 31.
Rice—long grain, brown (including parboiled)
Metric Tons
Aug. 1
July 31.
Rice—medium, short and other classes, brown (including parboiled)
Metric Tons
Aug. 1
July 31.
Rice—long grain, milled (including parboiled)
Metric Tons
Aug. 1
July 31.
Rice—medium, short and other classes, milled (including parboiled, brewer's rice)
Metric Tons
Aug. 1
July 31.
Cattle Hides and Skins—Whole cattle hides (excluding wet blues)
Pieces
Jan. 1
Dec. 31.
Cattle Hides and Skins—Whole calf skins (excluding wet blues)
Pieces
Jan. 1
Dec. 31.
Cattle Hides and Skins—Whole kip skins (excluding wet blues)
Pieces
Jan. 1
Dec. 31.
Cattle Hides and Skins—Cattle, calf, and kip cut into croupons, crops, dossets, sides, butts and butt bend (hide equivalent) (excluding wet blues)
Number
Jan. 1
Dec. 31.
Cattle Hides and Skins—Cattle, calf and kip, in cuts not otherwise specified; pickled/limed (excluding wet blues)
Pounds
Jan. 1
Dec. 31.
Cattle, calf and kip, Wet blues—unsplit (whole or sided) hide equivalent
Number
Jan. 1
Dec. 31.
Cattle, calf and kip, Wet blues—grain splits (whole or sided) hide equivalent
Number
Jan. 1
Dec. 31.
Cattle, calf and kip, Wet blues—splits, (excluding grain splits)
Pounds
Jan. 1
Dec. 31.
Beef—fresh, chilled or frozen muscle cuts/whether or not boxed
1
Metric Tons
Jan. 1
Dec. 31.
Pork—fresh, chilled or frozen muscle cuts/whether or not boxed
1
Metric Tons
Jan. 1
Dec. 31.
1
For greater clarity, “muscle cuts” includes carcasses, whether whole, divided in half or further sub-divided into individual primals, sub-primals, or fabricated cuts, with or without bone. Carcasses which are broken down, boxed, and sold as a complete unit are muscle cuts. Total weight of carcasses reported may include minor non-reportable items attached to carcasses (
e.g.,
hooves attached to carcasses). Meats removed during the conversion of an animal to a carcass (
e.g.,
variety meats such as beef/pork hearts, beef tongues, etc.) are not muscle cuts nor are items sold as bones practically free of meat (
e.g.,
beef femur bones) or fat practically free of meat (
e.g.,
pork clear plate) removed from a carcass.
[84 FR 64704, Nov. 25, 2019]
Pt. 21

# PART 21—UNIFORM RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION FOR FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS

# Authority:
Sec. 231, Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, Pub. L. 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894 (42 U.S.C. 4601) as amended by the Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987, title IV of Pub. L. 100-17, 101 Stat. 246-256 (42 U.S.C. 4601 note).
§ 21.1
Uniform relocation assistance and real property acquisition.
Regulations and procedures for complying with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894, 42 U.S.C. 4601) as amended by the Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 (title IV of Pub. L. 100-17, 101 Stat. 246-256, 42 U.S.C 4601 note) are set forth in 49 CFR part 24.
[52 FR 48017, Dec. 17, 1987, and 54 FR 8912, 8913, Mar. 2, 1989]
Pt. 22

# PART 22—RURAL DEVELOPMENT COORDINATION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
22.101
The Rural Development Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-419).
22.102
Summary of authorities.
22.103
Purpose.
22.104
General policy.

# Subpart B—Roles and Responsibilities of Federal Government
22.201
Coordination.
22.202
Federal unit responsibilities.
22.203
Major responsibilities under title VI, Sec. 603.
22.204
Rural development committees.
22.205
Allocation of loan and grant funds.

# Subpart C—Roles and Responsibilities of State Governments
22.301
Selection and designation.
22.302
Area eligibility.
22.303
Cooperation with Federal Regional Councils.
22.304
Multiyear planning and programming.
22.305
Conformance with OMB Circular No. A-95.
22.306
Financing rural development planning.
22.307
Program evaluation.
22.308
Project approval.
22.309
Seeking Federal review.

# Authority:
Sec. 301, 80 Stat. 379, 5 U.S.C. 301 and delegations of authority by the Secretary of Agriculture, 38 FR 14944-14948, 7 CFR 2.23, as amended by 38 FR 24633.

# Source:
38 FR 29020, Oct. 18, 1973, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 22.101
The Rural Development Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-419).
The Rural Development Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-419), herein called the Act
consists of six titles designed to facilitate the development of rural communities through a series of authorizations including grants, loans, and administrative provisions. This Act adds new statutory rural development coordination responsibilities to certain Federal departments and agencies to be carried out under the leadership of the Secretary of Agriculture.
§ 22.102
Summary of authorities.
The purpose of this section is to give notice that certain authorities have been delegated by the Secretary of USDA agencies for implementation. New Secretarial delegations covering the Rural Development Act were effective May 31, 1973, and were published in the
Federal Register
June 7, 1973 (38 FR 14944-14953). These are as follows:
(a) Title I (38 FR 14948). Responsibility delegated to theAssistant Secretary for Rural Development. The responsibility for administering loan and grant authorities is redelegated to the Farmers Home Administration, except the responsibility for administering loan authorities with respect to rural electrification and telephone facilities and service which has been redelegated to the Rural Electrification Administration.
(b) Titles II (38 FR 14945-14948), III (38 FR 14945-14948), and V (38 FR 14945-14948. Responsibility delegated to the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education and redelegated as follows:
(1) Titles II (38 FR 14951-14952) and III (38 FR 14951-14952) to the Administrator, Soil Conservation Service.
(2) Title V (38 FR 14949-14950) to the Administrators, Cooperative State Research Service and the Extension Service respectively.
(c) Title IV (38 FR 14945-14948). Responsibility delegated to the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education and redelegated (38 FR 14950-14951) to the Chief of the Forest Service.
(d) Title VI, section 603 (38 FR 14948). Responsibility delegated to and redelegated (38 FR 14953) to the Administrator, Rural Development Service.
The Rural Development Act recognizes that many Federal departments and agencies of the executive branch of government administer programs and provide services which are applicable to the needs of rural communities. Section 603 of the Rural Development Act charges the Secretary of Agriculture with providing governmentwide leadership for, and with coordinating a nationwide rural development program. In such coordination, the Secretary shall seek measures that will achieve effective integration of relevant Federal services in rural areas as provided by Agriculture agencies and other Departments and agencies. This section also requires that the Secretary shall establish goals and report to the Congress on progress in complying with specified purposes of the Act. The Federal Regional Council will play a major role in coordination at the field level. An organic Act of the Department (7 U.S.C. 2201) has been amended to require the Secretary to add Rural Development to those purposes for which he is authorized to acquire and diffuse useful information.
§ 22.103
Purpose.
The purpose of these regulations is to establish the policies, procedures, and responsibilities required by section 603 of the Rural Development Act.
§ 22.104
General policy.
Federal implementation of the Act will be consistent with the President's policy of decentralized decisionmaking and administrative responsibility which gives fullest possible consideration to State and local rural development goals and priorities. As a result of section 817(4) of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-86) which prohibits prior approval by any State officials of any loan or grant under any program authorized by title I of the Rural Development Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-419), it has been necessary to substantially modify the planned administration of programs under section 603 of the Rural Development Act.

# Subpart B—Roles and Responsibilities of Federal Government
§ 22.201
Coordination.
The following identifies types and levels of coordination:
(a) Washington level interdepartmental and interagency coordination for purposes of the Act.
(b) Coordination for purposes of the Act among agencies within the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(c) Coordination among and between the field operations of Federal agencies for purposes of the Act.
(d) Coordination for purposes of the Act between levels of field operations of the Federal government and State governments.
§ 22.202
Federal unit responsibilities.
The following Federal units have major responsibilities in implementing the Act.
(a) Rural Development policy questions requiring resolution by the Committee on Community Development of the President's Domestic Council may be so referred by the Secretary of Agriculture, who will sit as a member and as Chairman of the Rural Development Committee.
(b) The Under Secretary of Agriculture will represent the Secretary in matters pertaining to rural development policy when such matters are of mutual concern to the Under Secretaries' Group for Regional Operations (Executive Order 11647 as amended by E.O. 11731) and the Federal Regional Councils, or at such other times that he or the Secretary may deem appropriate.
(c) The Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development will chair an Assistant Secretaries' Working Group consisting of interdepartmental and interagency members from Agriculture, Health, Education, and Welfare, Housing and Urban Development, Defense, Labor, Commerce, Transportation, Environmental Protection Agency, Small Business Administration and others as appropriate. This working group will operate under the aegis of the Rural Development Committee of the Domestic Council. The purpose of this working group is:
(1) To develop and recommend rural development policy applicable to more than one executive department or agency.
(2) To develop cooperative procedures between and among executive departments and agencies in matters pertaining to rural development.
(3) To devise effective rural development strategies and to bring Federal resources and services to bear toward their realization.
(4) To advise the Under Secretaries' Group on involvement of Federal Regional Councils in rural development activities.
The Secretary of Agriculture may utilize the services of the Assistant Secretaries' Working Group in performing his rural development functions for the Rural Development Committee of the Domestic Council.
(d) The Administrator, Rural Development Service, under the policy direction of the Under Secretary for Rural Development shall coordinate rural development activities under section 603 of the Rural Development Act as directed by the Secretary. In the fulfillment of such responsibilities, he is authorized to communicate directly with other Federal department and agency officials of corresponding levels of authority and with State and Federal Regional Council officials.
(e) The Federal Regional Councils shall have primary responsibility for interagency program coordination at the field level and will provide assistance to and liaison with States in promoting rural development. Federal attention to this type of cooperation and coordination will be emphasized. In addition, the Federal Regional Councils, operating within policy determined at the Washington level, shall be responsible for performing an oversight function to assess how well the machinery is working in carrying out the Rural Development Act authorities. Each Federal Regional Council shall create an appropriate management structure to accomplish the foregoing. This may include the creation of a Rural Development Committee. The Department of Agriculture will chair such Rural Development Committees or otherwise assume the lead in managing rural development activities of the Federal Regional Councils.
(1) Procedures for the coordination of rural development activities will be consistent with the policies expressed herein and with any specific Federal guideline based on these regulations or
on Executive Order 11647, as amended by Executive Order 11731.
(2) Councils shall exercise authority under Executive Order 11647, as amended by Executive Order 11731, to promote in rural areas integrated program and funding plans involving several Federal agencies.
§ 22.203
Major responsibilities under title VI, Sec. 603.
(a)
Title VI, section 603(b).
(1) Section 603(b) of the Rural Development Act charges the Secretary of Agriculture with providing leadership in the development of a nationwide rural development program. Included in this program would be pertinent Federal departments and agencies which might contribute to this rural development mission. In carrying out his responsibilities, the Secretary shall report annually, prior to September 1, to the Congress on rural development goals for employment, income, population, housing, and quality of community services and facilities. To carry out the provisions of the Act specified above, the following major responsibilities are identified:
(i) The Rural Development Committee of the Domestic Council will assume responsibility for interdepartmental policy formulation and resolution of issues pertaining to this section of the Act as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture. This committee consists of members of the Community Development Committee of the Domestic Council, to wit: The Secretary of Agriculture, Chairman of the Rural Development Committee; the Secretary of HUD, Chairman of the Urban Development Committee; the Secretary of Transportation, Chairman of the Transportation Policy Development Committee; the Secretaries of Treasury, Commerce, and Labor and the Director of OMB.
(ii) The Secretary of Agriculture shall be responsible for Washington level coordination pursuant to this section of the Act.
(iii) At the regional level, the Federal Regional Councils shall develop and implement procedures designed to identify and facilitate access to Federal resources appropriate for rural development purposes within States. Such procedures will be consistent with policies expressed or endorsed by the Under Secretaries' Group. The Councils shall also be responsible for monitoring the effectiveness with which the Rural Development Act is implemented within their respective regions.
(2) The Secretary of Agriculture is also authorized to initiate or expand research and development efforts related to solution of rural development problems including problems of rural water supply, rural sewage and solid waste management, and rural industrialization.
(3) The Rural Development Service will operate a rural development research program and may also participate in rural development research in cooperation with Federal, State, and private research units.
(b)
Title VI, section 603(c) of the Rural Development Act.
(1) Under guidance by the Under Secretaries' Group, and under the leadership of the U.S. Department of Agriculture member on each of the Federal Regional Councils, the Rural Development Committees of the Federal Regional Councils or other Federal Regional Council mechanisms assigned to work with rural development, shall be responsible for proposing to the appropriate Federal and State agencies actions in such areas as:
(i) Adjustment, where appropriate, of administrative boundaries used by field staffs of Federal and federally supported agencies to conform with boundaries of multicounty jurisdictions. “Multicounty jurisdictions” as used means substate planning districts or other combinations of county jurisdictions as designated by States for State planning purposes.
(ii) Co-location of field units of Federal agencies and consolidation of offices in the vicinity of principal centers of local government administration (including multicounty jurisdictional administration), to encourage increased cooperation within and among different governmental levels.
(iii) Exchange of personnel between Federal and State agencies under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act (Pub. L. 91-648), to supplement and broaden staffs administering rural development
programs, and provide specific technical expertise for certain projects.
(iv) Interchange of personnel among Federal agencies for the purposes expressed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2) In addition, the U.S. Department of Agriculture member on the Federal Regional Councils shall, by July 31, of each year, report to the Assistant Secretary for Rural Development who shall in turn report to the Under Secretaries' Group and the Congress on progress made in carrying out the programs outlined in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section and plans for programs to be implemented during the following fiscal year. The first report will be due to the Assistant Secretary by July 31, 1974.
§ 22.204
Rural development committees.
State rural development committees, consisting of USDA agency members and, in most instances, State governments and other Federal agency representatives are available to assist States in accomplishing their rural development objectives. Such assistance if requested by the State can take the form of technical assistance and cooperative services to States in carrying out their rural development priorities.
§ 22.205
Allocation of loan and grant funds.
(a) Title I grant funds and approved loan funding levels will be allocated among States by a formula designed to ensure equitable treatment. This applies to amounts made available for business and industrial loans, water, sewer and other community facilities except electrical and telephone facilities provided by or through the Rural Electrification Administration.
(b) During the second half of the fiscal year, the Secretary of Agriculture shall review State and multicounty jurisdictional rural development programs and projects so that unused allocations may be shifted from one State to another so as to enable the obligation of all available funds prior to the end of the fiscal year.
(c) The formula used for fund allocation will ensure that a minimum loan and grant level is established so that no State receives an amount too small to serve the purposes of the Act. A percentage of total loan and grant authority will be withheld from initial allocation to allow subsequent appropriate technical adjustments in amounts allocated to individual States.
(d) Title V funds shall be distributed by the Secretary under the formula specified in the Act. Title V activities will be consistent with the principle that States and multicounty jurisdictions have responsibility for the rural development planning and priority setting functions.

# Subpart C—Roles and Responsibilities of State Governments
§ 22.301
Selection and designation.
Procedures for implementing the Act are designed to give the fullest possible consideration to planning and development goals and strategies at the State and multicounty jurisdictional levels. The governing bodies of multicounty organizations should include representatives of local governments contained within the respective multicounty jurisdictions. State development strategies and priorities shall be fully considered in the Federal administration of Rural Development Act authorities.
§ 22.302
Area eligibility.
Eligibility for programs under the Act will be based on the criteria of community size and location of population as specified in the Act. State designations of eligible areas will be duly considered by the Federal government in the determination of eligibility for loan and grant assistance.
§ 22.303
Cooperation with Federal Regional Councils.
States are urged to establish and maintain close and cooperative relationships with the Federal Regional Councils which will be in a position to assist the States and multicounty jurisdictions in the identification and application of available resources. States may authorize direct communications and liaison between the Regional Councils and multicounty jurisdictions within States.
§ 22.304
Multiyear planning and programming.
State and multicounty jurisdictions are encouraged to adopt multiyear planning and development programs. As administrative procedures for implementing the Act support the feasibility of such a process, these programs should consider joint State, Federal, and local budget planning factors and be refined to conform to the actual fund availability as annual budgets are finalized and allocated. Such programs, once initiated, will be extended by the annual addition of a new planning year until programs are completed or terminated.
§ 22.305
Conformance with OMB Circular No. A-95.
The State and multicounty jurisdictional rural development planning process must conform to the review requirements expressed in OMB Circular No. A-95 under parts I, III, and IV as appropriate.
§ 22.306
Financing rural development planning.
States will be required to finance rural development planning through their own resources, revenue-sharing allocations, or the Department of Housing and Urban Development planning and management assistance program or other available Federal planning programs.
§ 22.307
Program evaluation.
The Department of Agriculture is responsible for continuous program evaluation to determine if individual projects and the entire program is cost effective in terms of reaching rural development goals. As a result, USDA is responsible for conducting and reporting an annual evaluation of selected rural development projects and the overall rural development program. USDA shall include as a part of its evaluation Federal Regional Council assessment of the effectiveness of interagency coordination and delivery of services within the overall rural development program. States and multicounty districts are encouraged to participate in the joint preparation of such program evaluations. Copies of such evaluations should be supplied to the Administrator, Rural Development Service, Department of Agriculture and to the Federal Regional Councils, in sufficient time so as to arrive not later than July 1. The initial evaluation, due July 1, 1974, in addition to the requirements listed below, should include a background statement and should summarize first year program efforts and results. Annual evaluation should:
(a) Describe the process used in planning, project selection and priority setting, and the criteria and process used in evaluating program effectiveness.
(b) Describe the specific objectives of the programs.
(c) Describe and assess the cost and effectiveness of projects being pursued within individual multicounty jurisdictions.
(d) Express observations, conclusions and recommendations based on such evaluations which may contribute to the development of better management, coordination and planning procedures.
§ 22.308
Project approval.
State and multicounty jurisdictional planning is a State and local prerogative. Federal agencies will be responsive to State rural development strategies and priorities. However, determination of eligibility and feasibility and final approval of individual projects involving Federal funds must remain with the Federal government consistent with the Act and implementing regulations.
§ 22.309
Seeking Federal review.
States may, if they elect, submit multicounty development plans and proposals to the Federal Regional Councils and to the Rural Development Service, USDA, for review and comment. Such review will neither obligate the Federal government with respect to such programs nor require States to conform with suggestions supplied by the USDA or the Federal Regional Council.
Pt. 23

# PART 23—STATE AND REGIONAL ANNUAL PLANS OF WORK

# Subpart A—State Program
Sec.
23.1
General.
23.2
Administration.
23.3
Coordination.
23.4
State Rural Development Advisory Council.
23.5
Availability of funds.
23.6
Plan of Work.

# Subpart B—Regional Program
23.9
General.
23.10
Administration.
23.11
Board of Directors.
23.12
Availability of funds.
23.13
Plan of Work.

# Authority:
Sec. 508, 86 Stat. 674 (7 U.S.C. 2668).

# Source:
38 FR 29023, Oct. 18, 1973, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—State Program
§ 23.1
General.
(a) Title V of the Rural Development Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-419) hereafter referred to as “Title V” is the Research and Education component of the Rural Development Act of 1972. Title V provides the opportunity to utilize and build upon the research, extension, and community service capability of public and private institutions of higher education in each State to expand scientific inquiry and education backup for rural development. The higher educational and research institutions in each State, including the Land Grant Institutions of 1890, are authorized to assist in developing and disseminating through the most appropriate manner, scientific information, technical assistance, and feasibility studies required to improve the rural development capability of local citizens, agencies, and governments. Programs authorized under title V shall be organized and conducted by one or more colleges or universities in each State to provide a coordinated program in each State which will have the greatest impact on accomplishing the objectives of rural development in both the short and longer term and the use of these studies to support the State's comprehensive program to be supported under title V.
(b) Title V operations will be consonant with the purpose that all Federal rural development activities be coordinated with other federally assisted rural development activities and with the State's ongoing rural development program. To effectuate such purpose, the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education will implement title V plans and activities in close coordination with the Assistant Secretary for Rural Development.
§ 23.2
Administration.
(a) Title V will be administered by the Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture in cooperation with the chief administrative officer of the State Land Grant University who will administer the program within his respective State. To assure national and State coordination with programs under the Smith-Lever Act of 1914 and the Hatch Act (as amended), August 11, 1955, the administration of the programs shall be in association with the programs conducted under the Smith-Lever Act and the Hatch Act as required by section 504(b) of the Act.
(b) Programs authorized under title V shall be conducted as mutually agreed upon by the Secretary and the chief administrative officer of the State Land Grant University responsible for administering said programs in a memorandum of understanding which shall provide for the coordination of the programs, coordination of these programs with other rural development programs of Federal, State, and local government, and such other matters as the Secretary shall determine.
[38 FR 29023, Oct. 18, 1973, as amended at 76 FR 4804, Jan. 27, 2011]
§ 23.3
Coordination.
The chief administrative officer of the administratively responsible State Land Grant University will designate an official who will be responsible for the overall coordination of the authorized programs for the State. The designated official will be responsible for the overall coordination of planning, organizing, funding, conducting and evaluating programs in association
with the person responsible for the administration of research programs, the person responsible for the administration of the extension programs, and the administrative head of agriculture of the University (chairman of the State Rural Development Advisory Council).
§ 23.4
State Rural Development Advisory Council.
(a) The chief administrative officer of the administratively responsible State Land Grant University will appoint a State Rural Development Advisory Council with membership as set forth in section 504(e) of title V. The function of the Council shall be to review and approve annual program plans conducted under title V. The Council will also advise the chief administrative officer on all matters pertaining to the authorized programs.
(b) The Chairman of the State Rural Development Advisory Council will insure that programs proposed under title V including regional programs applicable within the State are not inconsistent with and are, to a maximum extent practicable, in consonance with other rural development programs and activities approved in that State.
(c) Those elements of the research and extension plan which would impact directly on rural development activities being developed or pursued by States will be considered jointly by the State Rural Development Advisory Council and appropriate State agencies to assure a constructive reinforcement of those State activities.
§ 23.5
Availability of funds.
Funds available under title V for extension and research programs shall be allocated to, and following approval of a State Annual Plan of Work, paid to the official of the State Land Grant University designated to receive funds under the Smith-Lever and Hatch Acts respectively. Funds will be available for State programs for expenditures authorized by section 503(c) of title V, in the fiscal year for which the funds were appropriated and the next fiscal year.
§ 23.6
Plan of Work.
(a) A State Annual Plan of Work for carrying out the programs authorized under title V shall be prepared. The Plan of Work should include:
(1) Identification of major problems and needs which can be met by each related extension and research program in the geographic or problem area.
(2) The relationship of this program to ongoing planning and development efforts.
(3) The organizational structure for planning, conducting, and evaluating each pilot program, including the names and title of the members of the Rural Development Advisory Council and the composition of major committees and work groups.
(4) A separate concise statement describing specific extension projects to be funded under each program. The statement should contain the following elements: Title, objectives, organization and operational procedures, probable duration, personnel, institutions involved, and relation to the research effort. In addition, a brief description of each regular or special extension project which is complementary and supports the title V pilot program, but which is funded from other sources shall be included.
(5) A separate concise statement describing specific research projects to be funded under each program. The statement should contain the following elements: Title, objectives, organization, and operational procedures, probable duration, personnel, institutions involved, and relation to the extension effort. In addition, a brief description of each regular or special research project which is complementary and supports the title V program, but which is funded from other sources, shall be included.
(6) A plan for evaluating the impact of each program on the development of the area, including the effectiveness of the extension and research program techniques, and organizational structure for planning and conducting each program. Appraisals by community leaders in the area should be included in the evaluation.
(7) Provisions for making an annual progress report to the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research, and Education which will document achievements pertaining to the goals
and objectives as stated in the Plan of Work.
(8) A budget statement for each program to be submitted on forms provided by the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research, and Education.
(b) The Plan of Work shall include plans for all programs to be conducted with funds authorized under section 503(b)(3) and (4) of title V. The Plan of Work shall include plans for the programs to be conducted by each cooperating and participating university or college and such other information as included in these guidelines. Each State program must include research and extension activities directed toward identification of programs which are likely to have the greatest impact upon accomplishing the objectives of rural development in both the short and longer terms and the use of these studies to support the State's comprehensive program to be supported under section 505(b) of title V. In addition, all other rural development extension and research efforts funded from other sources that contribute directly to the proposed programs shall be described in the Plan of Work.
(c) Since the appropriation authorization for title V is limited to a three-year period the Plan of Work should be developed to demonstrate extension and research program techniques and organizational structures for providing essential knowledge to assist and support rural development efforts within that time.
(1) In accordance with the above criteria, the Plan of Work should:
(i) Concentrate on limited geographic or problem areas where title V efforts would be expected to have high impact within the three-year authorization.
(ii) Give emphasis to rural areas, including towns and cities with populations of less than 50,000.
(iii) Involve the administratively responsible Land Grant University and other public or private colleges and universities, as appropriate, in meeting with high priority extension and research needs of the area(s).
(iv) Give priority to education and research assistance leading to increasing job and income opportunities, improving quality of life, improving essential community services and facilities, improving housing and home improvements, and enhancing those social processes necessary to achieve these goals.
(v) Be consistent with Statewide comprehensive planning and development efforts and objectives. Procedures set forth under § 23.4(c) are designed to achieve attainment of this requirement.
(d) Four copies of the Plan of Work approved by the State Rural Development Advisory Council shall be submitted by the person responsible for the overall coordination of the title V programs in the State to the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, within 60 days after enactment of the annual Appropriation Act for the Department of Agriculture.
(e) Plans of Work not meeting the above criteria will not be approved by the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education.

# Subpart B—Regional Program
§ 23.9
General.
(a) Section 503(b)(2), title V, of the Rural Development Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-419) hereafter referred to as “Title V” authorizes funds to finance work authorized under title V which serve two or more States; in which universities in two or more States cooperate; or which is conducted by one University serving two or more States. The authorized funding under section 503(b)(2) is hereafter referred to as the “Regional Programs.”
(b) The Regional Programs shall develop and provide knowledge essential to assist and support rural development in the region, and shall provide for technical consultation and personnel development for the research and extension staff in the several States of the region to help them to be more responsive to rural development needs and activities.
(c) The Regional Programs will concentrate on the high priority knowledge, training, and personnel needs required for the research and extension staff in the several States to conduct effective rural development research
and extension to carry out the provisions of title V. These efforts may include personnel development and consultation; synthesis of existing research knowledge and the interpretation of this knowledge for rural development program and policy purposes; the development of strategies and procedures on high priority rural development problems of regional significance; as funds permit, the conduct of research on one of two high priority problems for which information is lacking but is urgently needed for rural development, and the evaluation of rural development programs and policies.
(d) Regional Programs will be consonant with all rural development activities under the Act and other pertinent Federal development programs. To effectuate such purpose, the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education will implement title V plans and activities in close cooperation with the Assistant Secretary for Rural Development. In order to insure such consonance, the Director of each Regional Center will insure that regional programs having an impact within one or more States are brought to the attention of the appropriate State overall coordinator for consideration pursuant to procedures in § 23.4(c).
§ 23.10
Administration.
(a) The Regional Programs will be administered through four Regional Rural Development Centers hereafter referred to as “Regional Centers” in cooperation with the National Institute of Food and Agriculture. The Director of each Regional Center shall be responsible for compliance with all appropriate provisions of title V and the regulations of this subpart. Regions as delineated for purposes under section 503(b)(2) will be coterminous with the regional delineation by the National Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges. Each Regional Center will be established by the regional association of State Agricultural Experiment Station Directors and the regional organization of Cooperative Extension Directors in the region to be served by the Regional Center. These associations and organizations will designate the location of the Regional Center.
(b) Although the Regional Center will administer the program, it is also expected that it will draw on expertise from outside the Regional Center. The Director of each Regional Center shall seek advice and assistance from regional and subregional committees, groups or persons who can contribute to the Regional Center's program.
[38 FR 29023, Oct. 18, 1973, as amended at 76 FR 4804, Jan. 27, 2011]
§ 23.11
Board of Directors.
(a) For each Regional Center there shall be a Board of Directors selected by the Regional Association of Agricultural Experiment Station Directors and the Regional Organization of Cooperative State Extension Directors. Membership on the Board of Directors shall include representatives from State Cooperative Extension Services and State Agricultural Experiment Stations from the States in the region and/or other State administrators of programs carried out under title V in the region.
(b) The Director of each Regional Center will be responsible to the Board of Directors for the Regional Program conducted at that Regional Center. The Regional Annual Plan of Work will be developed by the Director and reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
§ 23.12
Availability of funds.
Available funds will be allocated equally and following approval of a Regional Annual Plan of Work paid to the Directors of the four Regional Centers. Funds will be available for Regional Programs for expenditures authorized by section 503(c) of title V, in the fiscal year for which the funds were appropriated and the next fiscal year.
§ 23.13
Plan of Work.
(a) A Regional Plan of Work for carrying out the programs authorized to be funded under section 503(b)(2) of title V shall be prepared. The Plan of Work should include:
(1) A brief narrative statement including identification of high priority knowledge, skill, and organization needs for rural development program
and policy purposes in the region and identification of technical consultation, training, and personnel needs of research and extension workers in support of rural development programs.
(2) A statement indicating:
(i) The types of personnel to be trained, technical consultation to be conducted, the estimated number of participants, the location or locations where the program will be conducted, and the staff who will conduct the work;
(ii) The types of topical areas of rural development for which the synthesis of available research knowledge for rural development purposes is planned;
(iii) The type of high priority rural development research which will be undertaken as funds permit and the staff which would do the research;
(iv) The type of evaluation studies which will be made and the staff which will do the evaluation; and
(v) The relationship of the Plan of Work to priorities activated under subpart A of this part, which in turn support State development strategies.
(3) A concise statement of the organization structure for planning and conducting the program funded under section 503(b)(2).
(4) A plan for evaluating the usefulness of the program and the effectiveness of the organizational structure.
(5) Provision for making an annual progress report to the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education which will document achievements pertaining to the goals and objectives as stated in the Plan of Work.
(6) A budget statement to be submitted on forms provided by the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education.
(b) The Plan of Work shall be coordinated with the work program of other pertinent multi-State organizations or bodies for those activities of the Regional Rural Development Centers which go beyond direct assistance to individual State programs conducted under title V.
(c) The Director of the Center will forward four copies of the Plan of Work to the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 20250, by a time to be specified by the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education.
(d) Regional Annual Plans of Work not meeting the above criteria will not be approved by the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education.
PART 24 [RESERVED]
Pt. 25

# PART 25—RURAL EMPOWERMENT ZONES AND ENTERPRISE COMMUNITIES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
25.1
Applicability and scope.
25.2
Objective and purpose.
25.3
Definitions.
25.4
Secretarial review and designation.
25.5
Waivers.
25.6-25.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Area Requirements
25.100
Eligibility requirements.
25.101
Data utilized for eligibility determinations.
25.102
Pervasive poverty, unemployment and general distress.
25.103
Area size and boundary requirements.
25.104
Poverty rate.
25.105-25.199
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Nomination Procedure
25.200
Nominations by State and local governments.
25.201
Application.
25.202
Strategic plan.
25.203
Submission of applications.
25.204
Evaluation of the strategic plan.
25.205-25.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Designation Process
25.300
USDA action and review of nominations for designation.
25.301
Selection factors for designation of nominated rural areas.
25.302-25.399
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Post-Designation Requirements
25.400
Reporting.
25.401
Responsibility of lead managing entity.
25.402
Periodic performance reviews.
25.403
Ongoing 2-year work plan requirement.
25.404
Validation of designation.
25.405
Revocation of designation.
25.406-25.499
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Rules
25.500
Indian reservations.
25.501
Governments.
25.502
Nominations by State-chartered economic development corporations.
25.503
Rural areas.
25.504-25.999
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Round II and Round IIS Grants
25.600
Purpose.
25.601
Delegation of authority.
25.602
Eligible recipients.
25.603
Grant approval and obligation of funds.
25.604
Disbursement of grant funds.
25.605
Grant program reporting requirements.
25.606
Financial management and records.
25.607
Suspension or termination of grant funds.
25.608-25.619
[Reserved]
25.620
Eligible grant purposes.
25.621
Ineligible grant purposes.
25.622
Other considerations.
25.623
Programmatic changes.
25.624-25.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 26 U.S.C. 1391; Pub. L. 103-66, 107 Stat. 543; Pub L. 105-34, 111 Stat. 885; Sec. 766, Pub. L. 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681-37; Pub. L. 106-554 [Title I of H.R. 5562], 114 Stat. 2763.

# Source:
63 FR 19114, Apr. 16, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 25.1
Applicability and scope.
(a) Applicability. This part contains policies and procedures applicable to rural empowerment zones and enterprise communities, authorized under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, title XIII, subchapter C, part I (Round I), the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, title IX, subtitle F (Round II), the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277) (Round IIS), and the Community Renewal Tax Relief Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-554) (Round III).
(b)
Scope.
This part contains provisions relating to area requirements, the nomination process for rural Empowerment Zones and rural Enterprise Communities, and the designation of these Zones and Communities by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (Secretary) (USDA). Provisions dealing with the nominations and designation of urban Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities are promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). This part also contains provisions relating to granting certain nominated areas status as Champion communities.
[63 FR 19114, Apr. 16, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 13556, Apr. 24, 2002]
§ 25.2
Objective and purpose.
The purpose of this part is to provide for the establishment of Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities in rural areas in order to facilitate the empowerment of the disadvantaged and long-term unemployed such that they may become economically self-sufficient, and to promote revitalization of economically distressed areas, primarily by facilitating:
(a) Coordination of economic, human services, health, transportation, education, community, and physical development plans, and other plans and related activities at the local level;
(b) Local partnerships fully involving affected communities and local institutions and organizations in developing and implementing a comprehensive multi-sectoral strategic plan for any nominated rural Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community;
(c) Tax incentives and credits; and
(d) Distribution of other federal resources including grants from USDA and other federal departments, including Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community Social Services Block Grant (EZ/EC SSBG) funds as may be available from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).
§ 25.3
Definitions.
As used in this part—
Annual report
means the report submitted to USDA by all rural Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities pursuant to § 25.400.
Applicant
means the entity that is submitting the community's strategic plan for accomplishing comprehensive economic, human community, and physical development within the area; such an entity may include, but is not limited to, State governments, local
governments, tribal governments, regional planning agencies, non-profit organizations, community-based organizations, or a partnership of community members and other entities. The applicant may be the same as or different from the lead managing entity.
Baseline condition
means a measurable condition or problem at the time of designation for which benchmark goals have been established for improvement.
Benchmark activity
means a program, project, task or combination thereof which is designed to achieve a benchmark goal.
Benchmark goal
means a measurable goal targeted for achievement in the strategic plan.
Brownfield
means a “qualified contaminated site” meeting the requirements of section 941 of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, (26 U.S.C. 198(c)), where the site is located in an empowerment zone or enterprise community.
Census tract
means a population census tract, or, if census tracts are not defined for the area, a block numbering area (BNA) as established by the Bureau of the Census, U.S. Department of Commerce. BNAs are areas delineated by state officials or (lacking state participation) by the Census Bureau, following Census Bureau guidelines, for the purpose of grouping and numbering decennial census blocks in counties or statistically equivalent entities in which census tracts have not been established. A BNA is equivalent to a census tract in the Census Bureau's geographic hierarchy.
Champion Community
means a rural area granted such status by the Secretary pursuant to this part from among those communities which applied for designation as either a rural Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community and which were not so designated.
Designation
means the process by which the Secretary designates rural areas as empowerment zones or enterprise communities pursuant to eligibility criteria established by subchapter U of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 1391
et seq.
).
Designation date
means December 21, 1994, in the case of Round I designations, December 24, 1998, in the case of Round II and Round IIS designations and January 11, 2002, in the case of Round III designations
Designation period
means, in the case of empowerment zones, the lesser of such time as has elapsed from the designation date to December 31, 2009 or from the designation date to the effective date of an applicable notice of revocation pursuant to 7 CFR 25.405(e) and, in the case of enterprise communities, the lesser of ten years or such time as has elapsed from the designation date to the effective date of an applicable notice of revocation pursuant to 7 CFR 25.405(e).
Developable site
means a parcel of land in a nominated area which may be developed for commercial or industrial purposes.
Empowerment Zone
means a rural area so designated by the Secretary pursuant to this part.
Enterprise Community
means a rural area so designated by the Secretary pursuant to this part.
EZ/EC SSBG funds
or
EZ/EC Social Services Block Grant funds
means any funds that may be provided to states or tribal governments by HHS in accordance with section 2007(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397f), for use by designated Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities.
Funding official
means the state director in the state where the designated rural area is located, or if the designated rural area is located in more than one state, the state where the headquarters office of the lead managing entity is located.
HHS
means the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
HUD
means the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Indian reservation
means a reservation as defined in section 168(j)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 168(j)(6).
Lead managing entity
means the entity that will administer and be responsible for the implementation of the strategic plan.
Local government
means any county, city, town, township, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a state, and any combination of
these political subdivisions that is recognized by the Secretary.
Nominated area
means an area which is nominated by one or more local governments and the state or states in which it is located for designation in accordance with this part.
Office of Community Development
or
OCD
means the office of the Deputy Administrator, Community Development, as identified in 7 CFR 2003.26(b)(4).
Outmigration
means the negative percentage change reported by the Bureau of the Census, U.S. Department of Commerce, for the sum of:
(1) Net Domestic Migration;
(2) Net Federal Movement; and
(3) Net International Migration, as such terms are defined for purposes of the 1990 Census.
Poverty rate
means, for a given Census tract, the poverty rate reported in Table 19 of the Bureau of the Census CPH-3 series of publications from the 1990 Census of Population and Housing: Population and Housing Characteristics for Census Tracts and Block Numbering Areas.
Revocation of designation
means the process by which the Secretary may revoke the designation of an area as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community pursuant to § 25.405.
Round I
identifies designations of rural Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities pursuant to subchapter C, part I (Empowerment Zones, Enterprise Communities and Rural Development Investment Areas) of Title XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (Pub. L. 103-66).
Round II
identifies designations of rural Empowerment Zones pursuant to subtitle F (Empowerment Zones, Enterprise Communities, Brownfields, and Community Development Financial Institutions) of Title IX of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 (Pub. L. 105-34).
Round IIS
identifies designations of rural enterprise communities pursuant to section 766 of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277).
Round III
identifies designations of empowerment zones pursuant to section 111 of the Community Renewal Tax Relief Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-554).
Rural
area means any area defined pursuant to § 25.503.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
State
means any state in the United States.
State director
means the state director for the Rural Development mission area within USDA, as identified in 7 CFR 2003.10.
Strategic plan
means a plan for achieving benchmark goals evidencing improvement over identified baseline conditions, developed with the participation and commitment of local governments, tribal governments, state governments, private sector, community members and others, pursuant to the provisions of § 25.202.
USDA
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
USDA EZ/EC grant program
means the grant program authorized by section 766 of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277).
[63 FR 19114, Apr. 16, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 13556, Apr. 24, 2002; 68 FR 16170, Apr. 3, 2003]
§ 25.4
Secretarial review and designation.
(a)
Designation.
The Secretary will review applications for the designation of nominated rural areas to determine the effectiveness of the strategic plans submitted by applicants; such designations of rural empowerment zones and enterprise communities as are made shall be from the applications submitted in response to the notice inviting applications or other applicable notice published in the
Federal Register.
The Secretary may elect to designate as champion communities those nominated areas which are not designated as either a rural empowerment zone or enterprise community and whose applications meet the criteria contained in § 25.301.
(b)
Number of rural empowerment zones, enterprise communities and champion communities
—(1)
Round I.
The Secretary may designate up to three rural Empowerment Zones and up to thirty
rural Enterprise Communities prior to December 31, 1996.
(2)
Round II.
The Secretary may, prior to January 1, 1999, designate up to five rural empowerment zones in addition to those designated in Round I.
(3)
Round IIS.
The Secretary may designate up to 20 rural enterprise communities in addition to those designated in Round I.
(4)
Round III.
The Secretary may, prior to January 1, 2002, designate up to two rural empowerment zones in addition to those designated in Round I and Round II.
(5)
Champion communities.
The number of champion communities is limited to the number of applicants which are not designated empowerment zones or enterprise communities.
(c)
Period of designation.
The designation of a rural area as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community shall remain in effect during the period beginning on the designation date and ending on the earliest of the:
(1) End of the tenth calendar year beginning on or after the designation date;
(2) Termination date designated by the state and local governments in their application for nomination;
(3) Date the Secretary revokes the designation; or
(4) Date the Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community modifies its boundary without first obtaining the written approval of the Secretary.
[63 FR 19114, Apr. 16, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 13556, Apr. 24, 2002]
§ 25.5
Waivers.
The Secretary may waive any provision of this part in any particular case for good cause, where it is determined that application of the requirement would produce a result adverse to the purpose and objectives of this part.
§§ 25.6-25.99
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Area Requirements
§ 25.100
Eligibility requirements.
A nominated rural area may be eligible for designation pursuant to this part only if the area:
(a) Has a maximum population of 30,000;
(b) Is one of pervasive poverty, unemployment, and general distress, as described in § 25.102;
(c) Meets the area size and boundary requirements of § 25.103;
(d) Is located entirely within the jurisdiction of the general local government making the nomination; and
(e) Meets the poverty rate criteria contained in § 25.104.
(f) Provision for Alaska and Hawaii. A nominated area in Alaska or Hawaii shall be presumed to meet the criteria of paragraphs (b), (c), and (e) of this section if, for each Census tract or block group in the area, at least 20 percent of the families in such tract have an income which is 50 percent or less of the statewide median family income.
§ 25.101
Data utilized for eligibility determinations.
(a)
Source of data.
The data to be employed in determining eligibility pursuant to this part shall be based on the 1990 Census, and from information published by the Bureau of Census and the Bureau of Labor Statistics, provided, however, that for purposes of demonstrating outmigration pursuant to § 25.104(b)(2)(iii), data from the 1980 Census and interim data collected by the Bureau of Census for the 1990-1994 period may be used. The data shall be comparable in point or period of time and methodology employed.
(b)
Use of statistics on boundaries.
The boundary of a rural area nominated for designation as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community must coincide with the boundaries of Census tracts, or, where tracts are not defined, with block numbering areas, except:
(1) Nominated areas in Alaska and Hawaii shall coincide with the boundaries of census tracts or block groups as such term is used for purposes of the 1990 Census;
(2) Developable sites are not required to coincide with the boundaries of Census tracts; and
(3) Nominated areas wholly within an Indian reservation are not required to adhere to census tract boundaries if sufficient credible data are available to
show compliance with other requirements of this part. The requirements of § 25.103 are otherwise applicable.
[63 FR 19114, Apr. 16, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 53780, Oct. 7, 1998]
§ 25.102
Pervasive poverty, unemployment and general distress.
(a)
Pervasive poverty.
Conditions of poverty must be reasonably distributed throughout the entire nominated area. The degree of poverty shall be demonstrated by citing available statistics on low-income population, levels of public assistance, numbers of persons or families in poverty or similar data.
(b)
Unemployment.
The degree of unemployment shall be demonstrated by the provision of information on the number of persons unemployed, underemployed (those with only a seasonal or part-time job) or discouraged workers (those capable of working but who have dropped out of the labor market—hence are not counted as unemployed), increase in unemployment rate, job loss, plant or military base closing, or other relevant unemployment indicators having a direct effect on the nominated area.
(c)
General distress.
General distress shall be evidenced by describing adverse conditions within the nominated area other than those of pervasive poverty and unemployment. Below average or decline in per capita income, earnings per worker, per capita property tax base, average years of school completed; outmigration and population decline, a high or rising incidence of crime, narcotics use, abandoned housing, deteriorated infrastructure, school dropouts, teen pregnancy, incidents of domestic violence, incidence of certain health conditions and illiteracy are examples of appropriate indicators of general distress. The data and methods used to produce such indicators that are used to describe general distress must all be stated.
§ 25.103
Area size and boundary requirements.
(a) General eligibility requirements. A nominated area:
(1) May not exceed one thousand square miles in total land area;
(2) Must have one continuous boundary if located in more than one State or may consist of not more than three noncontiguous parcels if located in only one State;
(3) If located in more than one State, must be located within no more than three contiguous States;
(4) May not include any portion of a central business district (as such term is used for purposes of the most recent Census of Retail Trade) unless the poverty rate for each Census tract in such district is not less than 35 percent for an Empowerment Zone (30 percent in the case of an Enterprise Community);
(5) Subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section, may not include any portion of an area already included in an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community or included in an area otherwise nominated to be designated under this section;
(b) Eligibility requirements specific to different rounds.
(1) For purposes of Round I designations only, a nominated area may not include any area within an Indian reservation;
(2) For purposes of applying paragraph (a)(1) of this section to Round II, Round IIS and Round III designations:
(i) A Census tract larger than 1,000 square miles shall be reduced to a 1,000 square mile area with a continuous boundary, if necessary, after application of §§ 25.103(b)(2) (ii) and (iii);
(ii) Land owned by the Federal, State or local government may (and in the event the Census tract exceeds 1,000 square miles, will) be excluded in determining the square mileage of a nominated area; and
(iii) Developable sites, in the aggregate not exceeding 2,000 acres, may (and in the event the Census tract exceeds 1,000 square miles, will) be excluded in determining the square mileage of the nominated area;
(3) For purposes of applying paragraph (a)(2) of this section to Round II, Round IIS and Round III designations, the following shall not be treated as violating the continuous boundary requirement nor the limit on the number of noncontiguous parcels:
(i) Exclusion of excess area pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section;
(ii) Exclusion of government owned land pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section; or
(iii) Exclusion of developable sites pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section; and
(4) Paragraph (a)(5) of this section shall not apply where a Round I Enterprise Community is applying either in its entirety or together with an additional area for a Round II Empowerment Zone designation.
[63 FR 19114, Apr. 16, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 53780, Oct. 7, 1998; 67 FR 13557, Mar. 25, 2002]
§ 25.104
Poverty rate.
(a)
General.
Eligibility of an area on the basis of poverty shall be established in accordance with the following poverty rate criteria specific to Round I, Round II, Round IIS and Round III nominated areas:
(1)
Round I
—(i) In each Census tract, the poverty rate may not be less than 20 percent;
(ii) For at least 90 percent of the Census tracts within the nominated area, the poverty rate may not be less than 25 percent; and
(iii) For at least 50 percent of the Census tracts within the nominated area, the poverty rate may not be less than 35 percent.
(2)
Round II, Round IIS and Round III
—(i) In each Census tract, the poverty rate may not be less than 20 percent;
(ii) For at least 90 percent of the Census tracts within the nominated area, the poverty rate may not be less than 25 percent;
(iii) Up to three noncontiguous developable sites, in the aggregate not exceeding 2,000 acres, may be excluded in determining whether the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section are met; and
(iv) The Secretary may designate not more than one rural Empowerment Zone without regard to paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section if such nominated area satisfies the emigration criteria specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.
(b)
Special rules.
The following special rules apply to the determination of poverty rate for Round I, Round II, Round IIS and Round III nominated areas:
(1)
Round I
—(i)
Census tracts with no population.
Census tracts with no population shall be treated as having a poverty rate that meets the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section, but shall be treated as having a zero poverty rate for purposes of applying paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section;
(ii)
Census tracts with populations of less than 2,000.
A Census tract with a population of less than 2,000 shall be treated as having a poverty rate which meets the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section if more than 75 percent of the tract is zoned for commercial or industrial use;
(iii)
Adjustment of poverty rates for Round I Enterprise Communities.
For Round I Enterprise Communities only, the Secretary may, where necessary to carry out the purposes of this part, apply one of the following alternatives:
(A) Reduce by 5 percentage points one of the following thresholds for not more than 10 percent of the Census tracts (or, if fewer, five Census tracts) in the nominated area:
(
1
) The 20 percent threshold in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(
2
) The 25 percent threshold in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section;
(
3
) The 35 percent threshold in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section; or
(B) Reduce the 35 percent threshold in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section by 10 percentage points for three Census tracts.
(2)
Round II, Round IIS and Round III
—(i)
Census tracts with no population.
Census tracts with no population shall be treated the same as those Census tracts having a population of less than 2,000;
(ii)
Census tracts with populations of less than 2,000.
A Census tract with a population of less than 2,000 shall be treated as having a poverty rate of not less than 25 percent if:
(A) More than 75 percent of such tract is zoned for commercial or industrial use; and
(B) Such tract is contiguous to 1 or more other Census tracts which have a poverty rate of 25 percent or more, where such determination is made without applying § 25.104(b)(2)(ii).
(iii)
Emigration criteria.
For purposes of the discretion as may be exercised
by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section, a nominated area must demonstrate outmigration of not less than 15 percent over the period 1980-1994 for each census tract. The outmigration for each census tract in the nominated area shall be as reported for the county in which the census tract is located:
Provided, however,
That the nominated area may include not more than one census tract where the reported outmigration is less than 15 percent, which tract shall be contiguous to at least one other census tract in the nominated area.
(c)
General rules.
The following general rules apply to the determination of poverty rate for Round I, Round II, Round IIS and Round III nominated areas.
(1)
Rounding up of percentages.
In making the calculations required by this section, the Secretary shall round all fractional percentages of one-half percentage point or more up to the next highest whole percentage point figure.
(2)
Noncontiguous parcels.
Each such parcel (excluding, in the case of Round II, Round IIS and Round III, up to three noncontiguous developable sites not exceeding 2,000 acres in the aggregate) must separately meet the poverty criteria contained in this section.
(3)
Areas not within census tracts.
In the case of an area which is not tracted for Census tracts, the block numbering area shall be used for purposes of determining poverty rates. Block groups may be used for Alaska and Hawaii.
[63 FR 19114, Apr. 16, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 13557, Apr. 24, 2002]
§§ 25.105-25.199
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Nomination Procedure
§ 25.200
Nominations by State and local governments.
(a)
Nomination criteria.
One or more local governments and the States in which an area is located must nominate such area for designation as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Nominated areas can be considered for designation only if:
(1) The rural area meets the applicable requirements for eligibility identified in § 25.100;
(2) The Secretary determines such governments have the authority to nominate the area for designation and to provide the assurances described in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(3) The Secretary determines all information furnished by the nominating States and local governments is reasonably accurate.
(b)
Required certifications and assurances.
The State and local governments nominating an area for designation must:
(1) Submit the following certifications:
(i) Each nominating governmental entity has the authority to:
(A) Nominate the rural area for designation as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community and make the assurances required under this part;
(B) Make the State and local commitments contained in the strategic plan or otherwise required under this part; and
(C) Provide written assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that these commitments will be met; and
(ii) The nominated area satisfies the eligibility criteria referenced in § 25.100, inclusive of the requirement that either;
(A) No portion of the area nominated is already included in a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community or in an area otherwise nominated to be designated under this section; or
(B) Where an existing Round I Enterprise Community is seeking to be designated as a Round II Empowerment Zone, that the nominated area includes the entirety of the applicable Round I Enterprise Community and that any other areas as may be included in the application do not comprise any portion of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community or part of an area otherwise nominated to be designated under this section; and
(2) Provide written assurance that:
(i) The strategic plan will be implemented;
(ii) The nominating governments will make available, or cause to be made available, all information requested by USDA to aid in the evaluation of
progress in implementing the strategic plan; and
(iii) EZ/EC SSBG funds, as applicable, will be used to supplement, not supplant, other Federal or non-Federal funds available for financing services or activities which promote the purposes of section 2007 of the Social Security Act.
§ 25.201
Application.
No rural area may be considered for designation pursuant to this part unless the application:
(a) Demonstrates that the nominated rural area satisfies the eligibility criteria contained in § 25.100;
(b) Includes a strategic plan, which meets the requirements contained in § 25.202;
(c) Includes the written commitment of the applicant, as applicable, that EZ/EC SSBG funds will be used to supplement, not replace, other Federal and non-Federal funds available for financing services or activities that promote the purposes of section 2007 of the Social Security Act; and
(d) Includes such other information as may be required by USDA.
§ 25.202
Strategic plan.
(a)
Principles of strategic plan.
The strategic plan included in the application must be developed in accordance with the following four key principles:
(1) Strategic vision for change, which identifies what the community will become and a strategic map for revitalization. The vision should build on assets and coordinate a response to community needs in a comprehensive fashion. It should also set goals and performance benchmarks for measuring progress and establish a framework for evaluating and adjusting the revitalization plan.
(2) Community-based partnerships, involving the participation of all segments of the community, including the political and governmental leadership, community groups, local public health and social service departments and nonprofit groups providing similar services, environmental groups, local transportation planning entities, public and private schools, religious organizations, the private and nonprofit sectors, centers of learning, and other community institutions and individual citizens.
(3) Economic opportunity, including job creation within the community and throughout the region, entrepreneurial initiatives, small business expansion, job training and other important services such as affordable childcare and transportation services that may enable residents to be employed in jobs that offer upward mobility.
(4) Sustainable community development, to advance the creation of livable and vibrant communities through comprehensive approaches that coordinate economic, physical, environmental, community, and human development. These approaches should preserve the environment and historic landmarks—they may include “brownfields” clean-up and redevelopment, and promote transportation, education, and public safety.
(b)
Minimum requirements.
The strategic plan must:
(1) Describe the coordinated economic, human, community, and physical development plan and related activities proposed for the nominated area;
(2) Describe the process by which the affected community is a full partner in the process of developing and implementing the plan and the extent to which local institutions and organizations have contributed to the planning process;
(3) Identify the amount of State, local, and private resources that will be available in the nominated area and the private and public partnerships to be used, which may include participation by, and cooperation with, universities, medical centers, and other private and public entities;
(4) Identify the funding requested under any Federal program in support of the proposed economic, human, community, and physical development and related activities, including details about proposed uses of EZ/EC SSBG funds that may be available from HHS;
(5) Identify the baselines, methods, and benchmarks for measuring the success of carrying out the strategic plan, including the extent to which poor persons and families will be empowered to become economically self-sufficient;
(6) Must not include any action to assist any establishment in relocating from one area outside the nominated area to the nominated area, except that assistance for the expansion of an existing business entity through the establishment of a new branch, affiliate, or subsidiary is permitted if:
(i) The establishment of the new branch, affiliate, or subsidiary will not result in a decrease in employment in the area of original location or in any other area where the existing business entity conducts business operations; and
(ii) There is no reason to believe that the new branch, affiliate, or subsidiary is being established with the intention of closing down the operations of the existing business entity in the area of its original location or in any other area where the existing business entity conducts business operation; and
(7) Include such other information as required by USDA in the notice inviting applications or other applicable notice.
(c)
Implementation of strategic plan.
The strategic plan may be implemented by State governments, tribal governments, local governments, regional planning agencies, non-profit organizations, community-based organizations, or other nongovernmental entities. Activities included in the strategic plan may be funded from any source, Federal, State, local, or private, which agrees to provide assistance to the nominated area.
(d)
Public access to materials and proceedings.
The applicant or the lead managing entity, as applicable, must make available to the public copies of the strategic plan and supporting documentation and must conduct its meetings in accordance with the applicable open meetings acts.
[63 FR 19114, Apr. 16, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 13557, Apr. 24, 2002]
§ 25.203
Submission of applications.
General.
A separate application for designation as an empowerment zone or enterprise community must be submitted for each rural area for which such designation is requested. The application shall be submitted in a form to be prescribed by USDA in the notice inviting applications or other applicable notice as published in the
Federal Register
and must contain complete and accurate information.
[67 FR 13557, Apr. 24, 2002]
§ 25.204
Evaluation of the strategic plan.
The strategic plan will be evaluated for effectiveness as part of the designation process for nominated rural areas described in subpart D of this part. On the basis of this evaluation, USDA may request additional information pertaining to the plan and the proposed area and may, as part of that request, suggest modifications to the plan, proposed area, or term that would enhance its effectiveness. The effectiveness of the strategic plan will be determined in accordance with the four key principles contained in § 25.202(a). USDA will review each plan submitted in terms of the four equally weighted principal objectives, and of such other elements of these principal objectives as are appropriate to address the opportunities and problems of each nominated area, which may include:
(a)
Strategic vision for change
—(1)
Goals and coordinated strategy.
The extent to which the strategic plan reflects a projection for the community's revitalization which links economic, human, physical, community development and other activities in a mutually reinforcing, synergistic way to achieve ultimate goals;
(2)
Creativity and innovation.
The extent to which the activities proposed in the plan are creative, innovative and promising and will promote the civic spirit necessary to revitalize the nominated area;
(3)
Building on assets.
The extent to which the vision for revitalization realistically addresses the needs of the nominated area in a way that takes advantage of its assets; and
(4)
Benchmarks and learning.
The extent to which the plan includes performance benchmarks for measuring progress in its implementation, including an on-going process for adjustments, corrections and building on what works.
(b)
Community-based partnerships
—(1)
Community partners.
The extent to which residents of the community participated in developing the strategic
plan and their commitment to implementing it, the extent to which community-based organizations in the nominated area have participated in the development of the nominated area, and their record of success measured by their achievements and support for undertakings within the nominated area;
(2)
Private and nonprofit organizations as partners.
The extent to which partnership arrangements include commitments from private and nonprofit organizations, including corporations, utilities, banks and other financial institutions, human services organizations, health care providers, and educational institutions supporting implementation of the strategic plan;
(3)
State and local government partners.
The extent to which States and local governments are committed to providing support to the strategic plan, including their commitment to “reinventing” their roles and coordinating programs to implement the strategic plan; and
(4)
Permanent implementation and evaluation structure.
The extent to which a responsible and accountable implementation structure or process has been created to ensure that the plan is successfully carried out and that improvements are made throughout the period of the zone or community's designation.
(c)
Economic opportunity.
(1) The extent to which businesses, jobs, and entrepreneurship will increase within the zone or community;
(2) The extent to which residents will achieve a real economic stake in the zone or community;
(3) The extent to which residents will be employed in the process of implementing the plan and in all phases of economic, community and human development;
(4) The extent to which residents will be linked with employers and jobs throughout the entire area and the way in which residents will receive training, assistance, and family support to become economically self-sufficient;
(5) The extent to which economic revitalization in the zone or community interrelates with the broader regional economies; and
(6) The extent to which lending and investment opportunities will increase within the zone or community through the establishment of mechanisms to encourage community investment and to create new economic growth.
(d)
Sustainable community development
—(1)
Consolidated planning.
The extent to which the plan is part of a larger strategic community development plan for the nominating localities and is consistent with broader regional development strategies;
(2)
Public safety.
The extent to which strategies such as community policing will be used to guarantee the basic safety and security of persons and property within the zone or community;
(3)
Amenities and design.
The extent to which the plan considers issues of design and amenities that will foster a sustainable community, such as open spaces, recreational areas, cultural institutions, transportation, energy, land and water uses, waste management, environmental protection and the vitality of life of the community;
(4)
Sustainable development.
The extent to which economic development will be achieved in a manner consistent that protects public health and the environment;
(5)
Supporting families.
The extent to which the strengths of families will be supported so that parents can succeed at work, provide nurture in the home, and contribute to the life of the community;
(6)
Youth development.
The extent to which the development of children, youth, and young adults into economically productive and socially responsible adults will be promoted and the extent to which young people will be:
(i) Provided with the opportunity to take responsibility for learning the skills, discipline, attitude, and initiative to make work rewarding;
(ii) Invited to take part as resources in the rebuilding of their community; and
(iii) Provided the opportunity to develop a sense of industry and competency and a belief they might exercise some control over the course of their lives.
(7)
Education goals.
The extent to which schools, religious organizations,
non-profit organizations, for-profit enterprises, local governments and families will work cooperatively to provide all individuals with the fundamental skills and knowledge they need to become active participants and contributors to their community, and to succeed in an increasingly competitive global economy;
(8)
Affordable housing.
The extent to which a housing component, providing for adequate safe housing and ensuring that all residents will have equal access to that housing is contained in the strategic plan;
(9)
Drug abuse.
The extent to which the plan addresses levels of drug abuse and drug-related activity through the expansion of drug treatment services, drug law enforcement initiatives, and community-based drug abuse education programs;
(10)
Health care.
The extent to which the plan promotes a community-based system of health care that facilitates access to comprehensive, high quality care, particularly for the residents of EZ/EC neighborhoods;
(11)
Equal opportunity.
The extent to which the plan offers an opportunity for diverse residents to participate in the rewards and responsibilities of work and service. The extent to which the plan ensures that no business within a nominated zone or community will directly or through contractual or other arrangements subject a person to discrimination on the basis of race, color, creed, national origin, gender, handicap or age in its employment practices, including recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, layoff, termination, upgrading, demotion, transfer, rates of pay or the forms of compensation, or use of facilities. Applicants must comply with the provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and the Age Discrimination Act of 1975.
§§ 25.205-25.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Designation Process
§ 25.300
USDA action and review of nominations for designation.
(a)
Establishment of submission procedures.
USDA will establish a time period and procedure for the submission of applications for designation as empowerment zones or enterprise communities, including submission deadlines and addresses, in a notice inviting applications or other applicable notice, to be published in the
Federal Register.
(b)
Acceptance for processing.
USDA will accept for processing those applications as empowerment zones and enterprise communities which USDA determines have met the criteria required under this part. USDA will notify the states and local governments whether or not the nomination has been accepted for processing. The application must be received by USDA on or before the close of business on the date established by the notice inviting applications or other applicable notice published in the
Federal Register.
The applications must be complete, inclusive of the strategic plan, as required by § 25.202, and the certifications and written assurances required by § 25.200(b).
(c)
Site visits.
In the process of reviewing each application accepted for processing, USDA may undertake site visits to any nominated area to aid in the process of evaluation.
(d)
Modification of the strategic plan, boundaries of nominated rural areas, or period during the application review period.
Subject to the limitations imposed by § 25.100.
(1) USDA may request additional information pertaining to the strategic plan and proposed area and may, as a part of that request, suggest modifications to the strategic plan or nominated area that would enhance the effectiveness of the strategic plan;
(2) Enlargement of a nominated area will not be allowed if the inclusion of the additional area will result in an average poverty rate less than the average poverty rate at the time of initial application; and
(3) An applicant may modify the nominated area or strategic plan during the application review period with USDA approval.
(e)
Designations.
Final determination of the boundaries of areas and the term
for which the designations will remain in effect will be made by the Secretary.
[63 FR 19114, Apr. 16, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 13557, Apr. 24, 2002]
§ 25.301
Selection factors for designation of nominated rural areas.
In choosing among nominated rural areas eligible for designation as Empowerment Zone, Enterprise Community or Champion Community, the Secretary shall consider:
(a) The potential effectiveness of the strategic plan, in accordance with the key principles in § 25.202(a);
(b) The strength of the assurances made pursuant to § 25.200(b) that the strategic plan will be implemented;
(c) The extent to which an application proposes activities that are creative and innovative;
(d) The extent to which areas consisting of noncontiguous parcels are not so widely separated as to compromise achievement by the nominated area of a cohesive community or regional identity; and
(e) Such other factors as established by the Secretary, which include the degree of need demonstrated by the nominated area for assistance under this part and the diversity within and among the nominated areas. If other factors are established by USDA, a
Federal Register
Notice will be published identifying such factors, along with an extension of the application due date if necessary.
§§ 25.302-25.399
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Post-Designation Requirements
§ 25.400
Reporting.
(a)
Periodic reports.
Empowerment Zones, Enterprise Communities and Champion Communities shall submit to USDA periodic reports which identify the community, local government and State actions which have been taken in accordance with the strategic plan. In addition to these reports, such other information relating to designated Empowerment Zones, Enterprise Communities and Champion communities as USDA may request from time to time shall be submitted promptly. On the basis of this information and of on-site reviews, USDA will prepare and issue periodic reports on the effectiveness of the Empowerment Zones/Enterprise Communities Program.
(b)
Annual report.
All rural Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities shall submit an annual report to USDA for each calendar year which includes an executive summary and benchmark progress report as follows:
(1)
Executive summary.
The executive summary shall identify the progress and setbacks experienced in efforts to achieve benchmark goals. Activities other than those expressly included in the strategic plan should also be noted in order to provide an understanding of where the community stands with respect to implementation of the strategic plan. Furthermore, the executive summary should address the following:
(i) Identify the most significant accomplishments to date.
(ii) Describe the level of community participation and overall support for the EZ/EC initiative.
(iii) List and describe new partnerships or alliances formed.
(iv) Identify problems or obstacles not otherwise anticipated in the strategic plan.
(v) Describe solutions developed or efforts to address the problems and obstacles.
(vi) Identify practices or concepts which were found especially effective in implementing the strategic plan.
(2)
Benchmark progress report.
For each benchmark goal the community will provide a current measure of the baseline condition which is the subject of targeted improvement and whether the current measure represents an improvement from the baseline condition as initially stated in the strategic plan. For each benchmark activity the community will provide a status report in form and substance acceptable to USDA.
(c)
Timely State data.
Where not prevented by State law, nominating State governments must provide the timely release of data requested by USDA for the purposes of monitoring and assisting the success of Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities.
§ 25.401
Responsibility of lead managing entity.
(a)
Financial.
The lead managing entity will be responsible for strategic plan program activities and monitoring the fiscal management of the funds of the Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community.
(b)
Reporting.
The lead managing entity will be responsible for developing the reports required under this subpart.
(c)
Cooperation.
All entities with significant involvement in implementing the strategic plan shall cooperate with the lead managing entity in its compliance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 25.402
Periodic performance reviews.
USDA will regularly evaluate the progress in implementing the strategic plan in each designated Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community on the basis of performance reviews to be conducted on site and using other information submitted. USDA may also commission evaluations of the Empowerment Zone program as a whole by an impartial third party. Evidence of continual involvement of all segments of the community, including low income and disadvantaged residents, must be evidenced in the implementation of the strategic plan.
§ 25.403
Ongoing 2-year work plan requirement.
(a) Each Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community shall prepare and submit annually, work plans for the subsequent 2-year interval of the designation period.
(b) The 2-year work plan shall be submitted to USDA 45 days prior to the start of the applicable 2-year period.
(c) The 2-year work plan must include the following sections and content:
(1)
Section 1—Work Plan.
Identify the benchmark goals to be achieved in the applicable 2 years of the strategic plan, together with the benchmark activities to be undertaken during the applicable 2 years of implementation. Include references to the applicable baseline conditions and performance indicators to be used in assessing performance.
(2)
Section 2—Operational Budget.
For each benchmark activity to be undertaken in the applicable 2 years of the strategic plan, set forth the following information:
(i) Expected implementation costs;
(ii) Proposed sources of funding and whether actual commitments have been obtained;
(iii) Technical assistance resources and other forms of support pledged by Federal, State and local governments, non-profit organizations, foundations, private businesses, and any other entity to assist in implementation of the community's strategic plan, and whether this support is conditional upon the designation of the community as an Empowerment Zone; and
(iv) Documentation of applications for assistance and commitments identified as proposed funding and other resources.
§ 25.404
Validation of designation.
(a)
Maintaining the principles of the program.
The empowerment zone, enterprise community or champion community (the designated community) must maintain a process for ensuring ongoing broad-based participation by community residents consistent with the approved application and planning process outlined in the strategic plan.
(1)
Continuous improvement.
The designated community must maintain a process for evaluating and learning from its experiences. It must detail the methods by which the community will assess its own performance in implementing its benchmarks, the process it will use for reviewing goals and benchmarks and revising its strategic plan.
(2)
Participation.
The designated community must develop as part of its strategic plan a written plan for assuring continuous broad-based community participation in the implementation of the strategic plan and the means by which the strategic plan is implemented, including board membership in the lead entity and other key partnership entities.
(b)
Administration of the strategic plan.
The strategic plan must be administered in a manner consistent with the principles of the program contained in § 25.202(a).
(1)
Lead entity.
The lead entity must have legal status and authority to receive and administer funds pursuant to Federal, state and other government or nonprofit programs.
(2)
Capacity.
The lead entity must have the capacity to implement the strategic plan, as demonstrated by audited financial statements as of the most recent fiscal year or other documentation that may be requested by USDA.
(3)
Board membership.
The membership of the board must be representative of the entire socio-economic spectrum in the designated community including business, social service agencies, health and education entities, low income and minority residents. Board membership may be determined by either broad-based election or by appointment to meet this diversity requirement; however, not more than 45 percent of board members may be selected by appointment. Elections of community residents to the board may be done by any locally acceptable process; however, at least one board member from each of the designated community's census tracts must be elected and representative of the low income residents in their census tract. The Deputy Administrator, Office of Community Development, may waive the 45 percent maximum appointment limit only for Tribal Governmental Organizations where the Deputy Administrator determines, in writing, that a more representative board would be obtained through the appointment process.
(4)
Partnerships.
The relationship between the designated community's lead entity board and local governments and other major regional and community organizations operating in the same geographic area is critical to the community's success in implementing its strategic plan. Every effort should be made to identify and maintain relationships with local partners. Documentation including, but not limited to, minutes of meetings, benchmark activity reports and annual reports of the lead entity must reflect the contributions of local partnership entities.
(5)
Public information.
The designated community must have written procedures in place describing the means by which citizens of the community and partnership organizations will be kept informed of the community's activities and progress in implementing the strategic plan, consistent with the principal objective of community based partnerships pursuant to § 25.202(a)(2). These procedures must be kept current and compliance with them documented on an ongoing basis.
(c)
Reevaluation of designations.
On the basis of the performance reviews described in § 25.402, and subject to the provisions relating to the revocation of designation appearing at § 25.405, USDA will make findings as to the continuing eligibility for and the validity of the designation of any Empowerment Zone, Enterprise Community, or Champion Community.
(d)
Modification of designation.
Based on a rural zone or community's success in carrying out its strategic plan, and subject to the provisions relating to revocation of designation in accordance with § 25.405 and the requirements as to the number, maximum population and other characteristics of rural Empowerment Zones referenced in § 25.100, the Secretary may modify designations by reclassifying rural Empowerment Zones as Enterprise Communities or Enterprise Communities as Empowerment Zones.
[63 FR 19114, Apr. 16, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 13557, Apr. 24, 2002]
§ 25.405
Revocation of designation.
(a)
Basis for revocation.
The Secretary may revoke the designation of a rural area as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community, or withdraw status as a Champion Community, if the Secretary determines, on the basis of the periodic monitoring and assessments described in § 25.402, that the applicant, lead managing entity, or the States or local governments in which the rural area is located have:
(1) Modified the boundaries of the area without written approval from USDA;
(2) Failed to make progress in implementing the strategic plan; or
(3) Not complied substantially with the strategic plan (which may include failing to apply funds as contained in the strategic plan without advance written approval from USDA).
(b)
Letter of Warning.
Before revoking the designation of a rural area as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community, the Secretary will issue a letter of warning to the applicant, the lead managing entity (if different from the applicant) and the nominating States and local governments, with a copy to all affected Federal agencies of which USDA is aware:
(1) Advising that the Secretary has determined that the applicant and/or lead managing entity and/or the nominating local governments and State:
(i) Have modified the boundaries of the area without written approval from USDA; or
(ii) Are not complying substantially with, or have failed to make satisfactory progress in implementing the strategic plan; and
(2) Requesting a reply from all involved parties within 90 days of the receipt of this letter of warning.
(c)
Notice of revocation.
To revoke the designation, the Secretary must issue a final notice of revocation of the designation of the rural area as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community, after:
(1) Allowing 90 days from the date of receipt of the letter of warning for response; and
(2) Making a determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Notice to affected Federal agencies.
USDA will notify all affected Federal agencies of which it is aware of its determination to revoke any designation pursuant to this section or to modify a designation pursuant to § 25.404(b).
(e)
Effective date.
The final notice of revocation of designation will be published in the
Federal Register,
and the revocation will be effective on the date of publication.
§§ 25.406-25.499
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Rules
§ 25.500
Indian reservations.
(a) An area in an Indian reservation shall be treated as nominated by a State and a local government if it is nominated by the reservation governing body.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, a reservation governing body must be the governing body of an Indian entity recognized and eligible to receive services from the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs, U.S. Department of Interior.
(c) Where two or more governing bodies have joint jurisdiction over an Indian reservation, the nomination of a reservation area must be a joint nomination.
§ 25.501
Governments.
If more than one State or local government seeks to nominate an area under this part, any reference to or requirement of this part shall apply to all such governments.
§ 25.502
Nominations by State-chartered economic development corporations.
Any rural area nominated by an economic development corporation chartered by a State and qualified to do business in the State in which it is located shall be treated as nominated by a State and local government.
§ 25.503
Rural areas.
(a)
What constitutes “rural”.
A rural area may consist of any area that lies outside the boundaries of a Metropolitan Area, as designated by the Office of Management and Budget, or, is an area that has a population density less than or equal to 1,000 persons per square mile, the land use of which is primarily agricultural.
(b)
Exceptions to the definition.
On a case by case basis, the Secretary may grant requests for waiver from the definition of “rural” stated in paragraph (a) of this section upon a showing of good cause. Applicants seeking to apply for a rural designation who do not satisfy the definition in paragraph (a) of this section must submit a request for waiver in writing to the Deputy Administrator, USDA Office of Community Development, Reporters Building, Room 701, STOP 3203, 300 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20024-3202. Requests must include:
(1) The name, address and daytime phone number of the contact person for the applicant seeking the waiver; and
(2) Sufficient information regarding the area that would support the infrequent exception from the definition.
(c)
Waiver process.
The Secretary, in consultation with the Department of Commerce, will have discretion to permit rural applications for communities that do not meet the above rural criteria.
§§ 25.504-25.999
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Round II and Round IIS Grants

# Source:
67 FR 13558, Mar. 25, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 25.600
Purpose.
This subpart outlines USDA policies and authorizations and contains procedures for the USDA EZ/EC grant program.
§ 25.601
Delegation of authority.
(a)
Program administration.
The Deputy Administrator, Office of Community Development, shall be responsible for the overall development of policy and administration of the USDA EZ/EC grant program.
(b)
Funding official.
Unless otherwise provided, the state director is responsible for implementing the authorities in this subpart, consistent with the guidance issued by the Office of Community Development. Except for grant approval and environmental determination authorities, state directors may re-delegate their duties to qualified staff members.
(c)
Environmental review determinations.
The funding official is responsible for making environmental review determinations.
(d)
Authority to issue regulations.
The Under Secretary, Rural Development, may promulgate regulations under this part.
§ 25.602
Eligible recipients.
(a)
General.
The grants made under this subpart shall be made to the lead managing entities on behalf of the Round II rural empowerment zones and Round IIS rural enterprise communities, respectively, in accordance with an approved strategic plan. Such grants shall be available to successor entities approved in writing by USDA.
(b)
Exception.
The funding official, with the approval of the Office of Community Development, may elect to award all or part of the available grant funds to an alternate grantee.
(c)
Subrecipients.
The grantee shall relay funds to subrecipients, as provided in the approved strategic plan, as soon as practicable.
§ 25.603
Grant approval and obligation of funds.
Grants may be made at such time as the nominated area has been designated and such other prerequisites as USDA shall determine have been met, including but not limited to:
(a) The empowerment zone or enterprise community has entered into a memorandum of agreement satisfactory to USDA;
(b) The empowerment zone or enterprise community has conformed its strategic plan to be consistent with the level of federal grant aid available and such conforming amendments (if any) have met with the approval of the Office of Community Development and the funding official;
(c) Completion of the environmental review process, including all appropriate public notices;
(d) The proposed grantee has agreed, in form and substance satisfactory to the Office of Community Development, to any funding conditions imposed by USDA;
(e) The grantee has submitted a request for obligation of funds, in form and substance satisfactory to the Office of Community Development, inclusive of the following certification:
“The grantee certifies that it and all direct or substantial subrecipients are in compliance and will continue to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, executive orders and other generally applicable requirements, including those contained in 7 CFR part 25, 2 CFR part 200, and 2 CFR chapter IV and any agreement to meet funding conditions, in effect at the time of the grant or as subsequently amended.”
[67 FR 13558, Mar. 25, 2002, as amended at 85 FR 31938, May 28, 2020]
§ 25.604
Disbursement of grant funds.
(a) The funding official will determine, based on 7 CFR parts 3015, 3016 and 3019, as applicable, whether disbursement of a grant will be by advance or reimbursement.
(b) A “request for advance or reimbursement,” in form and substance satisfactory to USDA, must be completed by the grantee on behalf of itself and all applicable subrecipients and submitted to the funding official.
(c) Requests for advance or reimbursement must identify:
(1) The amount requested for each benchmark activity;
(2) The cumulative amount advanced to date (not inclusive of the current amount requested) for each benchmark activity;
(3) The total USDA EZ/EC grant obligated for each benchmark activity;
(4) The total approved budget for the applicable project or program (inclusive of non USDA EZ/EC grant program sources);
(5) An estimated percentage of completion or progress made in accomplishing the benchmark goal associated with each benchmark activity;
(6) Certification that the lead managing entity and the subrecipients (where applicable) are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulatory requirements; and
(7) Such other information as the funding official may require.
(d) Requests for advance or reimbursement may include only activities or projects which are identified in an approved strategic plan.
§ 25.605
Grant program reporting requirements.
Grantees may incorporate grant reporting requirements in the reports submitted pursuant to § 25.400, or submit them separately. In complying with the requirements of 7 CFR parts 3015, 3016, or 3019, as applicable, grantees must submit, in lieu of the forms prescribed therein, the equivalent of such forms prescribed by the Office of Community Development pursuant to this subpart as such may be adapted to the USDA EZ/EC grant program and which may be submitted and retained in electronic form.
§ 25.606
Financial management and records.
(a) In complying with the requirements of 7 CFR parts 3015, 3016, or 3019, as applicable, grantees must submit, in lieu of the forms prescribed therein, the equivalent of such forms prescribed by the Office of Community Development pursuant to this subpart as such may be adapted to the USDA EZ/EC grant program and which may be submitted and retained in electronic form.
(b) Grantees must retain financial records, supporting documents, statistical records and all other records pertinent to the grant for a period of at least 3 years after the end of the designation period, except that the records shall be retained beyond the 3 year period if audit findings have not been resolved or if directed by the United States. Records may be retained and submitted in electronic form if allowed by Generally Accepted Government Accounting Principles.
§ 25.607
Suspension or termination of grant funds.
(a) Grants under this subpart may be suspended or terminated by the funding official, in all or in part, in accordance with this subpart and the applicable provisions of 7 CFR parts 3015, 3016 and 3019, as applicable.
(b) The funding official may elect to suspend or terminate the entirety of a grant, or funding of a particular benchmark activity, but nevertheless fund the remainder of a request for advance or reimbursement, where the funding official has determined:
(1) That grantee or subrecipient of the grant funds has demonstrated insufficient progress toward achieving the related benchmark goal or in any other way failed to comply with the strategic plan;
(2) There is reason to believe that other sources of joint funding have not been or will not be forthcoming on a timely basis;
(3) The strategic plan calls for a revised use of the grant funds; or
(4) Such other cause as the funding official identifies in writing to the grantee (including but not limited to the use of federal grant funds for ineligible purposes).
§§ 25.608-25.619
[Reserved]
§ 25.620
Eligible grant purposes.
Eligible grant purposes are:
(a) Services directed at the goals of—
(1) Achieving or maintaining economic self-support to prevent, reduce, or eliminate dependency;
(2) Achieving or maintaining self sufficiency, including reduction or prevention of dependency;
(3) Preventing or remedying neglect, abuse, or exploitation of children and adults unable to protect their own interests, or preserving, rehabilitating or reuniting families;
(b) Projects and activities identified in the strategic plan for the area; and
(c) Activities that benefit residents of the area for which the grant is made.
§ 25.621
Ineligible grant purposes.
Grant funds may not be used:
(a) As a source of local matching funds required for other federal grants;
(b) To fund political activities;
(c) To duplicate current services or replace or substitute for financial support provided from other sources. If the current service is inadequate, however, grant funds may be used to augment financial support or service levels beyond what is currently provided;
(d) To pay costs of preparing the application package for designation under this program;
(e) To pay costs of a project which were incurred prior to the execution date of the applicable memorandum of agreement;
(f) To pay for assistance to any private business enterprise which does not have at least 51 percent ownership by those who are either citizens of the United States or reside in the United States after being legally admitted for permanent residence;
(g) To pay any judgment or debt owed to the United States;
(h) To assist in the relocation of businesses;
(i) To support or promote gambling; or
(j) For political lobbying.
§ 25.622
Other considerations.
(a)
Civil rights compliance requirements.
All grants made under this subpart are subject to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and 7 CFR part 1901, subpart E.
(b)
Environmental review requirements.
Grants made under this subpart must comply with environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(c)
Other USDA regulations.
This program is subject to the provisions of the following regulations, as applicable:
(1) 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards;
(2) 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations;
(3) 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments;
(4) 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension;
(5) 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying;
(6) 2 CFR part 421, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance); and
(7) 2 CFR part 422, Research Institutions Conducting USDA-Funded Extramural Research; Research Misconducts.
[67 FR 13558, Mar. 25, 2002, as amended at 81 FR 11025, Mar. 2, 2016; 85 FR 31938, May 28, 2020]
§ 25.623
Programmatic changes.
Prior approval from USDA is required for all changes to the scope or objectives of an approved strategic plan or benchmark activity. Failure to obtain prior approval of changes to the strategic plan or benchmarks, including changes to the scope of work or a project budget may result in suspension, termination, and recovery of USDA EZ/EC grant funds.
§§ 25.624-25.999
[Reserved]
PART 26 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
7 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
7 CFR
85 FR
Page
Subtitle A
1.900—1.911 (Subpart Q) Added
34085
1.904 (c) amended
55359
1.907 Amended
55359
2 Nomenclature change
65504
2.4 Revised
65504
2.16 (a)(1)(ix) and (xviii) amended; (a)(1)(xxxvi) introductory text, (3)(iii) introductory text, (iv)(A), (v), (xiii), and (7)(xiv) revised; (a)(1)(xxxix), (3)(xviii), (xxvi), (xxvii), (4)(x), and (11) added
65504
2.17 (a)(20)(x), (xv), (21)(xxviii), (xxix), (22)(iii), (28), and (32) added; (a)(21)(xxi) and (xxii) revised
65506
2.19 (a)(1)(i)(A) and (ii)(L) revised; (a)(1)(i)(M) and (N) added
65506
2.20 (a)(2) revised
65506
2.21 (a)(1)(iii), (xvii), (xxxi), (xlii), (xlv), (lv), (lxiii), (lxvii), (lxxii), (lxxiii), (lxxviii), (lxxxiii), (cxi), (cxlii), and (cc) added; (a)(1)(iv) and (8)(xi) revised; (a)(1)(xviii) through (xx) and (clxxiii) amended
65509
2.22 (a)(1)(viii)(CCC), (2)(ii), (xiv), (xviii), (xxiii), and (xxiv) revised; (a)(1)(viii)(MMM), (PPP), (TTT), (xvi), (xvii), and (2)(xliii) through (xlvi) added
65509
2.24 (a)(2), (6)(ii)(J), and (K) removed; (a)(4)(xxii) and (13)(ii) added; (a)(8) revised
65510
2.25 (a)(26) added
65512
2.26 (a)(1)(xxx), (xlv), (xlviii), and (l) added
65512
2.29 (a)(4)(v) and (14)(iv) added; (a)(16) revised
65512
2.31 (c) added
65512
2.32 Added
65512
2.38 (a)(1)(iv) revised; (a)(2)(vi) through (viii), (7), and (8) added
65514
2.41 (a)(6) added
65514
2.42 (a)(10) amended; (a)(58) introductory text revised; (a)(63) added
65514
2.43 (a)(3) introductory text, (4)(i), (13), and (23)(xiv) revised; (a)(5) removed; (a)(16), (31), and (32) added
65515
2.44 (a)(9) added
65516
2.45—2.49 (Subpart G) Heading added
65516
2.45 Added
65516
2.47 (a)(1) revised; (a)(9), (11), and (15) added
65516
2.48 (a)(15), (35), and (36) added; (a)(28) and (29) revised
65516
2.49 (a)(7) and (9) added
65516
2.57 (a)(1)(xiii) and (xiv) added; (a)(2)(xii) revised
65516
2.60 (a) revised
65516
2.65 (a)(2) revised; (a)(30) and (47) added
65520
2.66 (a)(1) and (132) revised; (a)(9), (14), (15), (21), (27), (34), (35), (43), (56), (77), (79), (91), (103), (137), and (152) added
65520
2.68 (a)(14) added
65521
2.69 (b) amended
65521
2.72 (a)(2)(v) added
65521
2.75 (a)(2) added
65521
2.79 (a)(8)(lxiii) revised; (lxxvi), (lxxx), (23), and (24) added
65521
2.80 (a)(14), (19), (26), and (27) revised; (a)(49) through (52) added
65521
2.89 Removed
65521
2.90 (a)(1)(vi) and (vii) removed
65521
2.94 Added
65521
2.95 (b) revised
65522
2.96 (a)(3) removed
65524
2.500 Heading revised; section amended
65524
2.601 (a)(21), (46), (49), and (51) added
65524
2.700 (a)(4) revised
65524
2.701 (a)(6) through (8) added
65524
3 Revised
36672
6.2—6.9 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart A
31937
6.20—6.36 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart B
31938
6.31 Revised
31938
6.40—6.44 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart C
31938
9 Added
30830
9 Notification
41321, 49589
9.1—9.8 (Subpart A) Heading added
59384
9.1 Correction: (a) revised
59174
9.1 (a) introductory text amended
59384
9.2 Correction: amended
35799, 59175
9.2 Introductory text and section amended
59384
9.3 (c) amended
59384
9.4 Correction: (a) amended
49594
9.4 (a) revised; (d) added
59384
9.5 Correction: (b) introductory text, (2), (3), (h) Table 1, and Table 2 heading revised; (c)(1), (2), (d)(1), (2), (f)(1), and (2) amended; (e)(3) added
35799
9.5 Correction: (h) Table 1 amended
41329
9.5 Correction: (h) Table 1 amended; (j)(2) revised
49594
9.5 Correction: (h) Table 2 amended
59175
9.5 Redesignated as 9.102
59385
9.7 Correction: (h) amended
49594
9.7 (e)(1) and (h) amended; (e)(2) and (3) revised
59385
9.101—9.102 (Subpart B) added
59385
9.102 Redesignated from 9.5
59385
9.201—9.202 (Subpart C) Added
59386
11.1—11.15 (Subpart A) Heading amended
31938
11.1 Amended
31938
12.2 Amended
53151
12.30 (a)(3), (c)(1), and (4) revised
53152
12.31 (c)(2) revised
53152
16 Authority citation revised
82132
16.1 (b) redesignated as (c); new (b) added; eff. 1-19-21
82132
16.2 Revised; eff. 1-19-21
82132
16.3 Revised; eff. 1-19-21
82133
16.4 Revised; eff. 1-19-21
82134
16.5 Revised; eff. 1-19-21
82134
16.6 Removed; eff. 1-19-21
82134
16 Appendix A revised; eff. 1-19-21
82134
16 Appendix B added; eff. 1-19-21
82134
25.603 (e) amended
31938
25.622 (c) revised
31938
2021
7 CFR
86 FR
Page
Subtitle A
3.91 (a)(2) and (b) revised
24699
3.91 Correction: (b)(2)(xiv) amended
30535
9 Authority citation revised
4881
9.1 (a)(1) and (2) revised
4881
9.4 (a)(1) and (d) amended; (a)(2) revised; (a)(3) added
4882
9.4 (a)(1) and (2) revised; (a)(3) removed
48017
9.7 (a) revised; (b) amended
48017
9.102 (d) introductory text, (1), and (2) amended; (d)(3) added
4882
9.201 Amended
4882, 48017
9.202 Redesignated as 9.203; new section added
4882
9.202 (b)(1) through (3) revised; (b)(4) and (d) added
48017
9.203 Redesignated from 9.202
4882
9.203 (i) and (l) revised; (j) Table 2 amended; (m) through (o) added
48017
9.203 (a)(3) and (i)(1) revised; (a)(4) and (l) added; (c), (i)(2), and (j) Table 2 amended
4883
2022
7 CFR
87 FR
Page
Subtitle A
1.130—1.151 (Subpart H) Authority citation revised
44266
1.131 (a) amended
44266
1.210—1.224 (Subpart K) Revised
10927
1.210—1.224 (Subpart K) Regulation at 87 FR 10927 eff. date 4-29-22
24399
1.217 (a)(1) amended
25571
2 Nomenclature change
44266
2.14 Redesignated from 2.15
44266
2.15 Redesignated as 2.14; new section redesignated from 2.26; (a)(1)(iv) revised; (a)(1)(vii)(F) removed
44266
2.16 (a)(1)(xxviii)(B) and (12) revised
44267
2.16 Correction: (a)(1)(xxviii)(B) revised; (a)(12) added
54609
2.20 (a)(2)(xxiv)(A) introductory text and (lv) revised; (a)(2)(lvi) added
44267
2.22 Nomenclature change
44267
2.24 (a)(8) and (11) revised; (a)(9)(iii) and (10) removed
44267
2.26 Redesignated as 2.15
44266
2.26 New section added
44269
2.30 (a)(9) added
44269
2.31 (d) added
44269
2.38 (a)(2) removed
44269
2.39 Added
44269
2.42 (a)(42) removed; (a)(50)(ii) revised
44269
2.60 (a)(3) and (64) revised; (a)(65) added; (b)(6) removed
44270
2.65 (a)(10) added
44270
2.67 (a)(3) added
44270
2.68 (a)(15) added
44270
2.94 (a) introductory text revised
44270
2.95 Revised
44270
2.97 Removed
44272
2.600 Revised
44272
2.601 (a) introductory text and (2) revised
44272
2.602 (a) introductory text revised
44272
2.701 Removed
44273
3.91 (a)(2) and (b) revised
8395
6.25 (b) revised; interim
52852
2023
7 CFR
88 FR
Page
Subtitle A
1.900—1.911 (Subpart Q) Removed
28381
2.20 (a)(2)(xliii) added
70579
2.23 (a)(2)(v) added
70579
2.32 (a)(14) added
70580
2.38 (a)(1)(xii) and (4) removed
70580
2.39 (a)(9) added
70580
2.60 (a)(45) added
70580
2.95 (b)(11) removed
70580
2.700 Removed
70580
3.1 (c)(3) revised
89276
3.60 (b) Amended
89276
3.91 (a)(2) and (b) revised
30029
9 Heading revised
1876
9.1—9.8 (Subpart A) Heading revised
1876
9.1 (a) introductory text, (c), and (d) amended
1876
9.2 Introductory text and section amended
1876
9.3 (a) and (b)(2) amended
1876
9.4 (e) added
1876
9.7 (b) through (d), (e)(2)(ii), (iii), and (h) amended; (i) added
1876
9.101 Amended
1876
9.102 (c) introductory text, (1) through (3), (d) introductory text, (1), and (2) amended; (d)(3) removed
1876
9.201 Amended
1877
9.202 (a), (b)(4), and (d)(2) amended
1877
9.203 (a)(5) and (p) added; (b), (f)(2), and (h)(2) amended
1877
9.301—9.310 (Subpart D) Added
1877
2024
7 CFR
89 FR
Page
Subtitle A
1.900—1.903 (Subpart Q) Added; interim
91531
2.16 (a)(1)(xxviii) removed; (a)(13) added
80074
2.31 (a)(21) added
80074
2.39 (a)(10) added
80074
2.41 (a)(7) added
80075
2.42 (a)(31) added
80075
2.43 (a)(5) added
80075
2.44 (a)(10) added
80075
2.60 (a)(58) revised
80075
3.91 (a)(2) and (b) revised
48495
16 Authority citation revised
15707
16.1 Revised
15707
16.2 Amended
15707
16.3 Heading, (a), (c), (d), and (f) revised; (b) introductory text amended; (h) added
15707
16.4 (c) redesignated as (e); new (c) and (d) added; (a) and new (e) revised
15708
16.6 Added
15709
16 Appendix A and Appendix B revised; Appendix C added
15709
○
