Jan. 24, 2025
Title 17
Commodity and Securities Exchanges
Parts 41 to 199
Revised as of April 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of April 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
v

# Title 17:
Chapter I—Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Continued)
3

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
569
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
589
List of CFR Sections Affected
599
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
17 CFR 41.1
refers to title 17, part 41, section 1.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, April 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
April 1, 2025

# THIS TITLE
Title 17—
Commodity and Securities Exchanges
is composed of five volumes. The first two volumes, containing parts 1-40 and 41-199, comprise Chapter I—Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The third volume contains Chapter II—Securities and Exchange Commission, parts 200-239. The fourth volume, comprising part 240, contains additional regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The fifth volume, comprising part 241 to end, contains the remaining regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and Chapter IV—Department of the Treasury. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Department of the Treasury as of April 1, 2025.
The OMB control numbers for the Securities and Exchange Commission appear in § 200.800 of chapter II. For the convenience of the user, § 200.800 is reprinted in the Finding Aids sections of volume 4, containing part 240, and volume 5, containing part 241 to end.
For this volume, Cheryl E. Sirofchuck was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
17 CFR Ch. I (4-1-25 Edition)
Commodity Futures Trading Comm.

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
(This book contains parts 41 to 199)
Part
chapter i
—Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Continued)
41

# CHAPTER I—COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CONTINUED)
Part
Page
41
Security futures products
5
42
Anti-money laundering, terrorist financing
31
43
Real-time public reporting
31
44
Interim final rule for pre-enactment swap transactions
65
45
Swap data recordkeeping and reporting requirements
66
46
Swap data recordkeeping and reporting requirements: pre-enactment and transition swaps
112
48
Registration of foreign boards of trade
128
49
Swap data repositories
161
50
Clearing requirement and related rules
202
75
Proprietary trading and certain interests in and relationships with covered funds
218
100
Delivery period required
264
140
Organization, functions, and procedures of the Commission
265
141
Salary offset
292
142
Indemnification of CFTC employees
296
143
Collection of claims owed the United States arising from activities under the Commission's jurisdiction
297
144
Procedures regarding the disclosure of information and the testimony of present or former officers and employees in response to subpoenas or other demands of a court
300
145
Commission records and information
303
146
Records maintained on individuals
317
147
Open Commission meetings
331
148
Implementation of the Equal Access to Justice Act in covered adjudicatory proceedings before the Commission
338
149
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
344
150
Limits on positions
350
151
[Reserved]
155
Trading standards
384
156
Broker Associations
387
160
Privacy of consumer financial information under Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act
389
162
Protection of consumer information under the Fair Credit Reporting Act
418
165
Whistleblower rules
435
166
Customer protection rules
474
170
Registered futures associations
477
171
Rules relating to review of National Futures Association decisions in disciplinary, membership denial, registration and member responsibility actions
481
180
Prohibition against manipulation
495
190
Bankruptcy rules
496
191-199
[Reserved]
Pt. 41

# PART 41—SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
41.1
Definitions.
41.2
Required records.
41.3
Application for an exemptive order pursuant to section 4f(a)(4)(B) of the Act.
41.4-41.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Narrow-Based Security Indexes
41.11
Method for determining market capitalization and dollar value of average daily trading volume; application of the definition of narrow-based security index.
41.12
Indexes underlying futures contracts trading for fewer than 30 days.
41.13
Futures contracts on security indexes trading on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade.
41.14
Transition period for indexes that cease being narrow-based security indexes.
41.15
Exclusion from definition of narrow-based security index for indexes composed of debt securities.

# Subpart C—Requirements and Standards for Listing Security Futures Products
41.21
Requirements for underlying securities.
41.22
Required certifications.
41.23
Listing of security futures products for trading.
41.24
Rule amendments to security futures products.
41.25
Additional conditions for trading for security futures products.
41.27
Prohibition of dual trading in security futures products by floor brokers.
Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 41—Guidance on and Acceptable Practices for Position Limits and Position Accountability for Security Futures Products

# Subpart D—Notice—Designated Contract Markets in Security Futures Products
41.31
Notice-designation requirements.
41.32
Continuing obligations.
41.33
Applications for exemptive orders.
41.34
Exempt provisions.

# Subpart E—Customer Accounts and Margin Requirements
41.41
Security futures products accounts.
41.42
Customer margin requirements for security futures—authority, purpose, interpretation, and scope.
41.43
Definitions.
41.44
General provisions.
41.45
Required margin.
41.46
Type, form and use of margin.
41.47
Withdrawal of margin.
41.48
Undermargined accounts.
41.49
Filing proposed margin rule changes with the Commission.

# Authority:
Sections 206, 251 and 252, Pub. L. 106-554, 114 Stat. 2763, 7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 6f, 6j, 7a-2, 12a; 15 U.S.C. 78g(c)(2).

# Source:
66 FR 44511, Aug. 23, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 41.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a) Alternative trading system shall have the meaning set forth in section 1a(1) of the Act.
(b) Board of trade shall have the meaning set forth in section 1a(2) of the Act.
(c)
Broad-based security index
means a group or index of securities that does not constitute a narrow-based security index.
(d)
Foreign board of trade
means a board of trade located outside of the United States, its territories or possessions, whether incorporated or unincorporated, where foreign futures or foreign options are entered into.
(e)
Narrow-based security index
has the same meaning as in section 1a(35) of the Commodity Exchange Act.
(f) National securities association means a board of trade registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(g) National securities exchange means a board of trade registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(h) Rule shall have the meaning set forth in Commission regulation 40.1.
(i) Security futures product shall have the meaning set forth in section 1a(32) of the Act.
(j)
Opening price
means the price at which a security opened for trading, or a price that fairly reflects the price at which a security opened for trading, during the regular trading session of the national securities exchange or national securities association that lists the security. If the security is not listed on a national securities exchange or
a national securities association, then
opening price
shall mean the price at which a security opened for trading, or a price that fairly reflects the price at which a security opened for trading, on the primary market for the security.
(k)
Regular trading session
of a security means the normal hours for business of a national securities exchange or national securities association that lists the security.
(l)
Regulatory halt
means a delay, halt, or suspension in the trading of a security, that is instituted by the national securities exchange or national securities association that lists the security, as a result of:
(1) A determination that there are matters relating to the security or issuer that have not been adequately disclosed to the public, or that there are regulatory problems relating to the security which should be clarified before trading is permitted to continue; or
(2) The operation of circuit breaker procedures to halt or suspend trading in all equity securities trading on that national securities exchange or national securities association.
[66 FR 44511, Aug. 23, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 44965, Aug. 27, 2001; 67 FR 36761, May 24, 2002; 77 FR 66344, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 41.2
Required records.
A designated contract market that trades a security index or security futures product shall maintain in accordance with the requirements of § 1.31 of this chapter books and records of all activities related to the trading of such products, including: Records related to any determination under subpart B of this part whether or not a futures contract on a security index is a narrow-based security index or a broad-based security index.
[77 FR 66344, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 41.3
Application for an exemptive order pursuant to section 4f(a)(4)(B) of the Act.
(a) Any futures commission merchant or introducing broker registered in accordance with the notice registration provisions of § 3.10 of this chapter, or any broker or dealer exempt from floor broker or floor trader registration pursuant to section 4f(a)(3) of the Act, may apply to the Commission for an order pursuant to section 4f(a)(4)(B) of the Act granting exemption to such person from any provision of the Act or the Commission's regulations other than sections 4c(b), 4c(d), 4c(e), 4c(g), 4d, 4e, 4h, 4f(b), 4f(c), 4j, 4k(1), 4p, 6d, 8(d), 8(g), and 16 of the Act and the rules thereunder.
(b) An application pursuant to this section must set forth in writing or in an electronic mail message the following information:
(1) The name, main business address and main business telephone number of the person applying for an order;
(2) The capacity in which the person is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the person's CRD number (if a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.) or equivalent self-regulatory organization identification, together with a certification, if true, that the person's registration is not suspended pursuant to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(3) The particular section(s) of the Act and/or provision(s) of the Commission's regulations with respect to which the person seeks exemption;
(4) Any provision(s) of the securities laws or rules, or of the rules of a securities self-regulatory organization analogous to the provision(s);
(5) A clear explanation of the facts and circumstances under which the person believes that the requested exemptive relief is necessary or appropriate in the public interest; and
(6) A clear explanation of the extent to which the requested exemptive relief is consistent with the protection of investors.
(c) A national securities exchange or other securities industry self-regulatory organization may submit an application for an order pursuant to this section on behalf of its members.
(d) An application for an order must be submitted to the Director of the Market Participants Division, at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters if in paper form, or to
MPDletters@cftc.gov
if submitted via electronic mail.
(e) The Commission may, in its sole discretion, grant the application, deny the application, decline to entertain
the application, or grant the application subject to one or more conditions.
[66 FR 43086, Aug. 17, 2001. Redesignated at 67 FR 53171, Aug. 14, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 62352, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 89 FR 71812, Sept. 4, 2024]
§§ 41.4-41.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Narrow-Based Security Indexes
§ 41.11
Method for determining market capitalization and dollar value of average daily trading volume; application of the definition of narrow-based security index.
(a)
Market capitalization.
For purposes of section 1a(35)(B) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(35)(B)):
(1) On a particular day, a security shall be 1 of 750 securities with the largest market capitalization as of the preceding 6 full calendar months when it is included on a list of such securities designated by the Commission and the SEC as applicable for that day.
(2) In the event that the Commission and the SEC have not designated a list under paragraph (a)(1) of this section:
(i) The method to be used to determine market capitalization of a security as of the preceding 6 full calendar months is to sum the values of the market capitalization of such security for each U.S. trading day of the preceding 6 full calendar months, and to divide this sum by the total number of such trading days.
(ii) The 750 securities with the largest market capitalization shall be identified from the universe of all NMS securities as defined in § 242.600 that are common stock or depositary shares.
(b)
Dollar value of ADTV.
(1) For purposes of section 1a(35)(A) and (B) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(35)(A) and (B)):
(i)(A) The method to be used to determine the dollar value of ADTV of a security is to sum the dollar value of ADTV of all reported transactions in such security in each jurisdiction as calculated pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(B) The dollar value of ADTV of a security shall include the value of all reported transactions for such security and for any depositary share that represents such security.
(C) The dollar value of ADTV of a depositary share shall include the value of all reported transactions for such depositary share and for the security that is represented by such depositary share.
(ii) For trading in a security in the United States, the method to be used to determine the dollar value of ADTV as of the preceding 6 full calendar months is to sum the value of all reported transactions in such security for each U.S. trading day during the preceding 6 full calendar months, and to divide this sum by the total number of such trading days.
(iii)(A) For trading in a security in a jurisdiction other than the United States, the method to be used to determine the dollar value of ADTV as of the preceding 6 full calendar months is to sum the value in U.S. dollars of all reported transactions in such security in such jurisdiction for each trading day during the preceding 6 full calendar months, and to divide this sum by the total number of trading days in such jurisdiction during the preceding 6 full calendar months.
(B) If the value of reported transactions used in calculating the ADTV of securities under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) is reported in a currency other than U.S. dollars, the total value of each day's transactions in such currency shall be converted into U.S. dollars on the basis of a spot rate of exchange for that day obtained from at least one independent entity that provides or disseminates foreign exchange quotations in the ordinary course of its business.
(iv) The dollar value of ADTV of the lowest weighted 25% of an index is the sum of the dollar value of ADTV of each of the component securities comprising the lowest weighted 25% of such index.
(2) For purposes of section 1a(35)(B)(III)(cc) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(35)(B)(III)(cc)):
(i) On a particular day, a security shall be 1 of 675 securities with the largest dollar value of ADTV as of the preceding 6 full calendar months when it is included on a list of such securities designated by the Commission and the SEC as applicable for that day.
(ii) In the event that the Commission and the SEC have not designated a list under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section:
(A) The method to be used to determine the dollar value of ADTV of a security as of the preceding 6 full calendar months is to sum the value of all reported transactions in such security in the United States for each U.S. trading day during the preceding 6 full calendar months, and to divide this sum by the total number of such trading days.
(B) The 675 securities with the largest dollar value of ADTV shall be identified from the universe of all NMS securities as defined in § 242.600 that are common stock or depositary shares.
(c)
Depositary Shares and Section 12 Registration.
For purposes of section 1a(35)(B)(III)(aa) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(35)(B)(III)(aa)), the requirement that each component security of an index be registered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78
l
) shall be satisfied with respect to any security that is a depositary share if the deposited securities underlying the depositary share are registered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the depositary share is registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) on Form F-6 (17 CFR 239.36).
(d)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
SEC
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(2)
Closing price
of a security means:
(i) If reported transactions in the security have taken place in the United States, the price at which the last transaction in such security took place in the regular trading session of the principal market for the security in the United States.
(ii) If no reported transactions in a security have taken place in the United States, the closing price of such security shall be the closing price of any depositary share representing such security divided by the number of shares represented by such depositary share.
(iii) If no reported transactions in a security or in a depositary share representing such security have taken place in the United States, the closing price of such security shall be the price at which the last transaction in such security took place in the regular trading session of the principal market for the security. If such price is reported in a currency other than U.S. dollars, such price shall be converted into U.S. dollars on the basis of a spot rate of exchange relevant for the time of the transaction obtained from at least one independent entity that provides or disseminates foreign exchange quotations in the ordinary course of its business.
(3)
Depositary share
has the same meaning as in § 240.12b-2.
(4)
Foreign financial regulatory authority
has the same meaning as in Section 3(a)(52) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(52)).
(5)
Lowest weighted 25% of an index.
With respect to any particular day, the lowest weighted component securities comprising, in the aggregate, 25% of an index's weighting for purposes of section 1a(35)(A)(iv) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(35)(A)(iv)) (“lowest weighted 25% of an index”) means those securities:
(i) That are the lowest weighted securities when all the securities in such index are ranked from lowest to highest based on the index's weighting methodology; and
(ii) For which the sum of the weight of such securities is equal to, or less than, 25% of the index's total weighting.
(6)
Market capitalization
of a security on a particular day:
(i) If the security is not a depositary share, is the product of:
(A) The closing price of such security on that same day; and
(B) The number of outstanding shares of such security on that same day.
(ii) If the security is a depositary share, is the product of:
(A) The closing price of the depositary share on that same day divided by the number of deposited securities represented by such depositary share; and
(B) The number of outstanding shares of the security represented by the depositary share on that same day.
(7)
Outstanding shares
of a security means the number of outstanding shares of such security as reported on the most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 10-KSB, Form 10-QSB, or Form 20-F (17 CFR 249.310, 249.308a, 249.310b,
249.308b, or 249.220f) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the issuer of such security, including any change to such number of outstanding shares subsequently reported by the issuer on a Form 8-K (17 CFR 249.308).
(8)
Preceding 6 full calendar months
means, with respect to a particular day, the period of time beginning on the same day of the month 6 months before and ending on the day prior to such day.
(9)
Principal market
for a security means the single securities market with the largest reported trading volume for the security during the preceding 6 full calendar months.
(10)
Reported transaction
means:
(i) With respect to securities transactions in the United States, any transaction for which a transaction report is collected, processed, and made available pursuant to an effective transaction reporting plan, or for which a transaction report, last sale data, or quotation information is disseminated through an automated quotation system as described in Section 3(a)(51)(A)(ii) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(51)(A)(ii)); and
(ii) With respect to securities transactions outside the United States, any transaction that has been reported to a foreign financial regulatory authority in the jurisdiction where such transaction has taken place.
(11)
U.S. trading day
means any day on which a national securities exchange is open for trading.
(12)
Weighting
of a component security of an index means the percentage of such index's value represented, or accounted for, by such component security.
[66 FR 44511, Aug. 23, 2001, as amended at 70 FR 43750, July 29, 2005; 77 FR 66344, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 41.12
Indexes underlying futures contracts trading for fewer than 30 days.
(a) An index on which a contract of sale for future delivery is trading on a designated contract market or foreign board of trade is not a narrow-based security index under section 1a(35) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(35)) for the first 30 days of trading, if:
(1) Such index would not have been a narrow-based security index on each trading day of the preceding 6 full calendar months with respect to a date no earlier than 30 days prior to the commencement of trading of such contract;
(2) On each trading day of the preceding 6 full calendar months with respect to a date no earlier than 30 days prior to the commencement of trading such contract:
(i) Such index had more than 9 component securities;
(ii) No component security in such index comprised more than 30 percent of the index's weighting;
(iii) The 5 highest weighted component securities in such index did not comprise, in the aggregate, more than 60 percent of the index's weighting; and
(iv) The dollar value of the trading volume of the lowest weighted 25% of such index was not less than $50 million (or in the case of an index with 15 or more component securities, $30 million); or
(3) On each trading day of the 6 full calendar months preceding a date no earlier than 30 days prior to the commencement of trading such contract:
(i) Such index had at least 9 component securities;
(ii) No component security in such index comprised more than 30 percent of the index's weighting; and
(iii) Each component security in such index was:
(A) Registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78) or was a depositary share representing a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(B) 1 of 750 securities with the largest market capitalization that day; and
(C) 1 of 675 securities with the largest dollar value of trading volume that day.
(b) An index that is not a narrow-based security index for the first 30 days of trading pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, shall become a narrow-based security index if such index has been a narrow-based security index for more than 45 business days over 3 consecutive calendar months.
(c) An index that becomes a narrow-based security index solely because it was a narrow-based security index for
more than 45 business days over 3 consecutive calendar months pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall not be a narrow-based security index for the following 3 calendar months.
(d)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Market capitalization
has the same meaning as in § 41.11(d)(6) of this chapter.
(2)
Dollar value of trading volume
of a security on a particular day is the value in U.S. dollars of all reported transactions in such security on that day. If the value of reported transactions used in calculating dollar value of trading volume is reported in a currency other than U.S. dollars, the total value of each day's transactions shall be converted into U.S. dollars on the basis of a spot rate of exchange for that day obtained from at least one independent entity that provides or disseminates foreign exchange quotations in the ordinary course of its business.
(3)
Lowest weighted 25% of an index
has the same meaning as in § 41.11(d)(5) of this chapter.
(4)
Preceding 6 full calendar months
has the same meaning as in § 41.11(d)(8) of this chapter.
(5)
Reported transaction
has the same meaning as in § 41.11(d)(10) of this chapter.
[66 FR 44511, Aug. 23, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 66344, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 41.13
Futures contracts on security indexes trading on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade.
When a contract of sale for future delivery on a security index is traded on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade, such index shall not be a narrow-based security index if it would not be a narrow-based security index if a futures contract on such index were traded on a designated contract market.
[77 FR 66344, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 41.14
Transition period for indexes that cease being narrow-based security indexes.
(a) Forty-five day tolerance provision. An index that is a narrow-based security index that becomes a broad-based security index for no more than 45 business days over 3 consecutive calendar months shall be a narrow-based security index.
(b) Transition period for indexes that cease being narrow-based security indexes for more than forty-five days. An index that is a narrow-based security index that becomes a broad-based security index for more than 45 business days over 3 consecutive calendar months shall continue to be a narrow-based security index for the following 3 calendar months.
(c) Trading in months with open interest following transition period. After the transition period provided for in paragraph (b) of this section ends, a national securities exchange may continue to trade only in those months in the security futures product that had open interest on the date the transition period ended.
(d) Definition of calendar month. Calendar month means, with respect to a particular day, the period of time beginning on a calendar date and ending during another month on a day prior to such date.
§ 41.15
Exclusion from definition of narrow-based security index for indexes composed of debt securities.
(a) An index is not a narrow-based security index if:
(1)(i) Each of the securities of an issuer included in the index is a security, as defined in section 2(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 and section 3 (a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the respective rules promulgated thereunder, that is a note, bond, debenture, or evidence of indebtedness;
(ii) None of the securities of an issuer included in the index is an equity security, as defined in section 3(a)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder;
(iii) The index is comprised of more than nine securities that are issued by more than nine non-affiliated issuers;
(iv) The securities of any issuer included in the index do not comprise more than 30 percent of the index's weighting;
(v) The securities of any five non-affiliated issuers included in the index do not comprise more than 60 percent of the index's weighting;
(vi) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(viii) of this section, for each security of an issuer included in the index one of the following criteria is satisfied:
(A) The issuer of the security is required to file reports pursuant to section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(B) The issuer of the security has a worldwide market value of its outstanding common equity held by non-affiliates of $700 million or more;
(C) The issuer of the security has outstanding securities that are notes, bonds, debentures, or evidences of indebtedness having a total remaining principal amount of at least $1 billion;
(D) The security is an exempted security as defined in section 3(a)(12) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder; or
(E) The issuer of the security is a government of a foreign country or a political subdivision of a foreign country; and
(vii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(viii) of this section, for each security of an issuer included in the index one of the following criteria is satisfied:
(A) The security has a total remaining principal amount of at least $250,000,000; or
(B) The security is a municipal security (as defined in section 3(a)(29) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder) that has a total remaining principal amount of at least $200,000,000 and the issuer of such municipal security has outstanding securities that are notes, bonds, debentures, or evidences of indebtedness having a total remaining principal amount of at least $1 billion; and
(viii) Paragraphs (a)(1)(vi) and (a)(1)(vii) of this section will not apply to securities of an issuer included in the index if:
(A) All securities of such issuer included in the index represent less than five percent of the index's weighting; and
(B) Securities comprising at least 80 percent of the index's weighting satisfy the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1)(vi) and (a)(1)(vii) of this section.
(2)(i) The index includes exempted securities, other than municipal securities as defined in section 3(a)(29) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder, that are:
(A) Notes, bonds, debentures, or evidences of indebtedness; and
(B) Not equity securities, as defined in section 3(a)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder; and
(ii) Without taking into account any portion of the index composed of such exempted securities, other than municipal securities, the remaining portion of the index would not be a narrow-based security index meeting all the conditions under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1) An issuer is affiliated with another issuer if it controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, that issuer.
(2) For purposes of this section, “control” means ownership of 20 percent or more of an issuer's equity, or the ability to direct the voting of 20 percent or more of the issuer's voting equity.
(3) The term “issuer” includes a single issuer or group of affiliated issuers.
[71 FR 39541, July 13, 2006]

# Subpart C—Requirements and Standards for Listing Security Futures Products

# Source:
66 FR 55083, Nov. 1, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 41.21
Requirements for underlying securities.
(a)
Security futures products based on a single security.
A futures contract on a single security is eligible to be traded as a security futures product only if:
(1) The underlying security is registered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(2) The underlying security is:
(i) Common stock,
(ii) Such other equity security as the Commission and the SEC jointly deem appropriate, or
(iii) A note, bond, debenture, or evidence of indebtedness; and
(3) The underlying security conforms with the listing standards for the security futures product that the designated contract market has filed with the SEC under section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(b)
Security futures product based on two or more securities.
A futures contract on an index of two or more securities is eligible to be traded as a security futures product only if:
(1) The index is a narrow-based security index as defined in section 1a(35) of the Act;
(2) The securities in the index are registered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(3) The securities in the index are:
(i) Common stock,
(ii) Such other equity securities as the Commission and the SEC jointly deem appropriate, or
(iii) A note, bond, debenture, or evidence of indebtedness; and
(4) The index conforms with the listing standards for the security futures product that the designated contract market has filed with the SEC under section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
[66 FR 55083, Nov. 1, 2001, as amended at 71 FR 39542, July 13, 2006; 77 FR 66344, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 41.22
Required certifications.
It shall be unlawful for a designated contract market to list for trading or execution a security futures product unless the designated contract market has provided the Commission with a certification that the specific security futures product or products and the designated contract market meet, as applicable, the following criteria:
(a) The underlying security or securities satisfy the requirements of § 41.21;
(b) If the security futures product is not cash settled, arrangements are in place with a clearing agency registered pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the payment and delivery of the securities underlying the security futures product;
(c) Common clearing. [Reserved]
(d) Only futures commission merchants, introducing brokers, commodity trading advisors, commodity pool operators or associated persons subject to suitability rules comparable to those of a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder, except to the extent otherwise permitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder, may solicit, accept any order for, or otherwise deal in any transaction in or in connection with security futures products;
(e) If the board of trade is a designated contract market pursuant to section 5 of the Act, dual trading in these security futures products is restricted in accordance with § 41.27;
(f) Trading in the security futures products is not readily susceptible to manipulation of the price of such security futures product, nor to causing or being used in the manipulation of the price of any underlying security, option on such security, or option on a group or index including such securities, consistent with the conditions for trading of § 41.25;
(g) Procedures are in place for coordinated surveillance among the board of trade, any market on which any security underlying a security futures product is traded, and other markets on which any related security is traded to detect manipulation and insider trading. A board of trade that is an alternative trading system does not need to make this certification, provided that:
(1) The alternative trading system is a member of a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
(2) The national securities association or national securities exchange of which the alternative trading system is a member has in place such procedures;
(h) An audit trail is in place to facilitate coordinated surveillance among the board of trade, any market on which any security underlying a security futures product is traded, and any market on which any related security is traded. A board of trade that is an alternative trading system does not need to make this certification, provided that:
(1) The alternative trading system is a member of a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
(2) The national securities association or national securities exchange of which the alternative trading system is a member has in place such procedures;
(i) Procedures are in place to coordinate regulatory trading halts between the board of trade and markets on which any security underlying the security futures product is traded and other markets on which any related security is traded. A board of trade that is an alternative trading system does not need to make this certification, provided that:
(1) The alternative trading system is a member of a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
(2) The national securities association or national securities exchange of which the alternative trading system is a member has in place such procedures; and
(j) The margin requirements for the security futures product will comply with the provisions specified in § 41.43 through § 41.48.
[66 FR 44511, Aug. 23, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 66344, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 41.23
Listing of security futures products for trading.
(a)
Initial listing of products for trading.
To list new security futures products for trading, a designated contract market shall submit to the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters, either in electronic or hard-copy form, to be received by the Commission no later than the day prior to the initiation of trading, a filing that:
(1) Is labeled “Listing of Security Futures Product;”
(2) Includes a copy of the product's rules, including its terms and conditions;
(3) Includes the certifications required by § 41.22;
(4) Includes a certification that the terms and conditions of the contract comply with the additional conditions for trading of § 41.25;
(5) If the board of trade is a designated contract market pursuant to section 5 of the Act, it includes a certification that the security futures product complies with the Act and rules thereunder; and
(6) Includes a copy of the submission cover sheet in accordance with the instructions in appendix D of part 40.
(7) Includes a request for confidential treatment as permitted under the procedures of § 40.8.
(b)
Voluntary submission of security futures products for Commission approval.
A designated contract market may request that the Commission approve any security futures product under the procedures of § 40.5 of this chapter,
provided however,
that the registered entity shall include the certification required by § 41.22 with its submission under § 40.5 of this chapter. Notice designated contract markets may not request Commission approval of security futures products.
[66 FR 55083, Nov. 1, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 67507, Nov. 18, 2004; 74 FR 17394, Apr. 15, 2009; 77 FR 66344, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 41.24
Rule amendments to security futures products.
(a)
Self-certification of rules and rule amendments by designated contract markets and registered derivatives clearing organizations.
A designated contract market or registered derivatives clearing organization may implement any new rule or rule amendment relating to a security futures product by submitting to the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters, either in electronic or hard-copy form, to be received by the Commission no later than the day prior to the implementation of the rule or rule amendment, a filing that:
(1) Is labeled “Security Futures Product Rule Submission;'
(2) Includes a copy of the new rule or rule amendment;
(3) Includes a certification that the designated contract market or registered derivatives clearing organization has filed the rule or rule amendment with the Securities and Exchange Commission, if such a filing is required;
(4) If the board of trade is a designated contract market pursuant to section 5 of the Act or is a registered derivatives clearing organization pursuant to section 5b of the Act, it includes the documents and certifications required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to § 40.6 of this chapter, including a certification that the security futures product complies with the Act and rules thereunder; and
(5) Includes a copy of the submission cover sheet in accordance with the instructions in appendix D of part 40.
(6) Includes a request for confidential treatment as permitted under the procedures of § 40.8.
(b)
Voluntary submission of rules for Commission review and approval.
A designated contract market or a registered derivatives clearing organization clearing security futures products may request that the Commission approve any rule or proposed rule or rule amendment relating to a security futures product under the procedures of § 40.5 of this chapter,
provided however,
that the registered entity shall include the certifications required by § 41.22 with its submission under § 40.5 of this chapter. Notice designated contract markets may not request Commission approval of rules.
[66 FR 55083, Nov. 1, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 67507, Nov. 18, 2004; 74 FR 17394, Apr. 15, 2009; 77 FR 66344, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 41.25
Additional conditions for trading for security futures products.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Estimated deliverable supply
means the quantity of the security underlying a security futures product that reasonably can be expected to be readily available to short traders and salable by long traders at its market value in normal cash marketing channels during the specified delivery period. For guidance on estimating deliverable supply, designated contract markets may refer to appendix A of this subpart.
Same side of the market
means the aggregate of long positions in physically-delivered security futures products and cash-settled security futures products, in the same security, and, separately, the aggregate of short positions in physically-delivered security futures products and cash-settled security futures products, in the same security.
(b)
Common provisions
—(1)
Reporting of data.
The designated contract market shall comply with part 16 of this chapter requiring the daily reporting of market data.
(2)
Regulatory trading halts.
The rules of a designated contract market that lists or trades one or more security futures products must include the following provisions:
(i) Trading of a security futures product based on a single security shall be halted at all times that a regulatory halt has been instituted for the underlying security; and
(ii) Trading of a security futures product based on a narrow-based security index shall be halted at all times that a regulatory halt has been instituted for one or more underlying securities that constitute 50 percent or more of the market capitalization of the narrow-based security index.
(3)
Speculative position limits.
A designated contract market shall have rules in place establishing position limits or position accountability procedures for the expiring futures contract month as specified in this paragraph (b)(3).
(i)
Limits for equity security futures products.
For a security futures product on a single equity security, including a security futures product on an underlying security that represents ownership in a group of securities, e.g., an exchange traded fund, a designated contract market shall adopt a position limit no greater than 25,000 100-share contracts (or the equivalent if the contract size is different than 100 shares), either net or on the same side of the market, applicable to positions held during the last three trading days of an expiring contract month; except where:
(A) For a security futures product on a single equity security where the estimated deliverable supply of the underlying security exceeds 20 million shares, a designated contract market may adopt, if appropriate in light of the liquidity of trading in the underlying security, a position limit no greater than the equivalent of 12.5 percent of the estimated deliverable supply of the underlying security, either net or on the same side of the market, applicable to positions held during the last three trading days of an expiring contract month; or
(B) For a security futures product on a single equity security where the six-month total trading volume in the underlying security exceeds 2.5 billion shares and there are more than 40 million shares of estimated deliverable supply, a designated contract market may adopt a position accountability rule in lieu of a position limit, either net or on the same side of the market, applicable to positions held during the last three trading days of an expiring contract month. Upon request by a designated contract market, traders who hold positions greater than 25,000 100-share contracts (or the equivalent if the contract size is different than 100 shares), or such lower level specified pursuant to the rules of the designated contract market, must provide information to the designated contract market and consent to halt increasing their positions when so ordered by the designated contract market.
(ii)
Limits for physically-delivered basket equity security futures products.
For a physically-delivered security futures product on more than one equity security, e.g., a basket of deliverable securities, a designated contract market shall adopt a position limit, either net or on the same side of the market, applicable to positions held during the last three trading days of an expiring contract month and the criteria in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section must apply to the underlying security with the lowest estimated deliverable supply. For a physically-delivered security futures product on more than one equity security with a contract size different than 100 shares per underlying security, an appropriate adjustment to the limit must be made. If each of the underlying equity securities in the basket of deliverable securities is eligible for a position accountability level under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section, then the security futures product is eligible for a position accountability level in lieu of position limits.
(iii)
Limits for cash-settled equity index security futures products.
For a security futures product cash settled to a narrow-based security index of equity securities, a designated contract market shall adopt a position limit, either net or on the same side of the market, applicable to positions held during the last three trading days of an expiring contract month. For guidance on setting limits for a cash-settled equity index security futures product, designated contract markets may refer to paragraph (b) of appendix A to this subpart.
(iv)
Limits for debt security futures products.
For a security futures product on one or more debt securities, a designated contract market shall adopt a position limit, either net or on the same side of the market, applicable to positions held during the last three trading days of an expiring contract month. For guidance on setting limits for a debt security futures product, designated contract markets may refer to paragraph (c) of appendix A to this subpart.
(v)
Required minimum position limit time period.
For position limits required under this section where the security futures product permits delivery before the termination of trading, a designated contract market shall apply such position limits for a period beginning no later than the first day that long position holders may be assigned delivery notices, if such period is longer than the last three trading days of an expiring contract month.
(vi)
Requirements for resetting levels of position limits.
A designated contract market shall calculate estimated deliverable supply and six-month total trading volume no less frequently than semi-annually.
(A) If the estimated deliverable supply data supports a lower speculative limit for a security futures product, then the designated contract market shall lower the position limit for that security futures product pursuant to
the submission requirements of § 41.24. If the data require imposition of a reduced position limit for a security futures product, the designated contract market may permit any trader holding a position in compliance with the previous position limit, but in excess of the reduced limit, to maintain such position through the expiration of the security futures contract; provided, that the designated contract market does not find that the position poses a threat to the orderly expiration of such contract.
(B) If the estimated deliverable supply or six-month total trading volume data no longer supports a position accountability rule in lieu of a position limit for a security futures product, then the designated contract market shall establish a position limit for that security futures product pursuant to the submission requirements of § 41.24.
(C) If the estimated deliverable supply data supports a higher speculative limit for a security futures product, as provided under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section, then the designated contract market may raise the position limit for that security futures product pursuant to the submission requirements of § 41.24.
(vii)
Restriction on netting of positions.
If the designated contract market lists both physically-delivered contracts and cash-settled contracts in the same security, it shall not permit netting of positions in the physically-delivered contract with that of the cash-settled contract for purposes of determining applicability of position limits.
(c)
Final settlement prices for security futures products.
(1) The final settlement price of a cash-settled security futures product must fairly reflect the opening price of the underlying security or securities;
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if an opening price for one or more securities underlying a security futures product is not readily available, the final settlement price of the security futures product shall fairly reflect:
(i) The price of the underlying security or securities during the most recent regular trading session for such security or securities; or
(ii) The next available opening price of the underlying security or securities.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, if a derivatives clearing organization registered under section 5b of the Act or a clearing agency exempt from registration pursuant to section 5b(a)(2) of the Act, to which the final settlement price of a security futures product is or would be reported determines, pursuant to its rules, that such final settlement price is not consistent with the protection of customers and the public interest, taking into account such factors as fairness to buyers and sellers of the affected security futures product, the maintenance of a fair and orderly market in such security futures product, and consistency of interpretation and practice, the clearing organization shall have the authority to determine, under its rules, a final settlement price for such security futures product.
(d)
Special requirements for physical delivery contracts.
For security futures products settled by actual delivery of the underlying security or securities, payment and delivery of the underlying security or securities must be effected through a clearing agency that is registered pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(e)
Exemptions.
The Commission may exempt a designated contract market from the provisions of paragraphs (b)(2) and (c) of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, if the Commission determines that such exemption is consistent with the public interest and the protection of customers. An exemption granted pursuant to this paragraph (e) shall not operate as an exemption from any Securities and Exchange Commission rule. Any exemption that may be required from such rules must be obtained separately from the Securities and Exchange Commission.
[66 FR 55083, Nov. 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 36761, May 24, 2002; 77 FR 66345, Nov. 2, 2012; 84 FR 51021, Sept. 27, 2019]
§ 41.27
Prohibition of dual trading in security futures products by floor brokers.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Trading session means hours during which a designated contract market is scheduled to trade continuously during a trading day, as set forth in its rules, including any related post settlement trading session. A designated contract market may have more than one trading session during a trading day.
(2) Member shall have the meaning set forth in section 1a(24) of the Act.
(3) Broker association includes two or more designated contract market members with floor trading privileges of whom at least one is acting as a floor broker who:
(i) Engage in floor brokerage activity on behalf of the same employer;
(ii) Have an employer and employee relationship which relates to floor brokerage activity;
(iii) Share profits and losses associated with their brokerage or trading activity; or
(iv) Regularly share a deck of orders.
(4) Customer means an account owner for which a trade is executed other than:
(i) An account in which such floor broker has any interest;
(ii) An account for which a floor broker has discretion;
(iii) An account controlled by a person with whom a floor broker has a relationship through membership in a broker association;
(iv) A house account of the floor broker's clearing member; or
(v) An account for another member present on the floor of a designated contract market or an account controlled by such other member.
(5) Dual trading means the execution of customer orders by a floor broker through open outcry during the same trading session in which the floor broker executes directly or by initiating and passing to another member, either through open outcry or through a trading system that electronically matches bids and offers pursuant to a predetermined algorithm, a transaction for the same security futures product on the same designated contract market for an account described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.
(b)
Dual trading prohibition.
(1) No floor broker shall engage in dual trading in a security futures product on a designated contract market, except as otherwise provided under paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section.
(2) A designated contract market operating an electronic market or electronic trading system that provides market participants with a time or place advantage or the ability to override a predetermined algorithm must submit an appropriate rule proposal to the Commission consistent with the procedures set forth in § 40.5. The proposed rule must prohibit electronic market participants with a time or place advantage or the ability to override a predetermined algorithm from trading a security futures product for accounts in which these same participants have any interest during the same trading session that they also trade the same security futures product for other accounts. This paragraph, however, is not applicable with respect to execution priorities or quantity guarantees granted to market makers who perform that function, or to market participants who receive execution priorities based on price improvement activity, in accordance with the rules governing the designated contract market.
(c)
Rules prohibiting dual trading
—(1)
Designated contract markets.
Prior to listing a security futures product for trading on a trading floor where bids and offers are executed through open outcry, a designated contract market:
(i) Must submit to the Commission in accordance with § 40.6, a rule prohibiting dual trading, together with a written certification that the rule complies with the Act and the regulations thereunder, including this section; or
(ii) Must obtain Commission approval of such rule pursuant to § 40.5.
(2) [Reserved]
(d)
Specific permitted exceptions.
Notwithstanding the applicability of a dual trading prohibition under paragraph (b) of this section, dual trading may be permitted on a designated contract market pursuant to one or more of the following specific exceptions:
(1)
Correction of errors.
To offset trading errors resulting from the execution of customer orders,
provided,
that the
floor broker must liquidate the position in his or her personal error account resulting from that error through open outcry or through a trading system that electronically matches bids and offers as soon as practicable, but, except as provided herein, not later than the close of business on the business day following the discovery of error. In the event that a floor broker is unable to offset the error trade because the daily price fluctuation limit is reached, a trading halt is imposed by the designated contract market, or an emergency is declared pursuant to the rules of the designated contract market, the floor broker must liquidate the position in his or her personal error account resulting from that error as soon as practicable thereafter.
(2)
Customer consent.
To permit a customer to designate in writing not less than once annually a specifically identified floor broker to dual trade while executing orders for such customer's account. An account controller acting pursuant to a power of attorney may designate a dual trading broker on behalf of its customer, provided, that the customer explicitly grants in writing to the individual account controller the authority to select a dual trading broker.
(3)
Spread transactions.
To permit a broker who unsuccessfully attempts to leg into a spread transaction for a customer to take the executed leg into his or her personal account and to offset such position, provided, that a record is prepared and maintained to demonstrate that the customer order was for a spread.
(4)
Market emergencies.
To address emergency market conditions resulting in a temporary emergency action as determined by a designated contract market.
(e)
Rules permitting specific exceptions
—(1)
Designated contract markets.
Prior to permitting dual trading under any of the exceptions provided in paragraphs (d)(1)-(4) of this section, a designated contract market:
(i) Must submit to the Commission in accordance with § 40.6, a rule permitting the exception(s), together with a written certification that the rule complies with the Act and the regulations thereunder, including this section; or
(ii) Must obtain Commission approval of such rule pursuant to § 40.5.
(2) [Reserved]
(f)
Unique or special characteristics of agreements, contracts or transactions, or of designated contract markets.
Notwithstanding the applicability of a dual trading prohibition under paragraph (b) of this section, dual trading may be permitted on a designated contract market to address unique or special characteristics of agreements, contracts, or transactions, or of the designated contract market as provided herein. Any rule of a designated contract market that would permit dual trading when it would otherwise be prohibited, based on a unique or special characteristic of agreements, contracts, or transactions, or of the designated contract market must be submitted to the Commission for prior approval under the procedures set forth in § 40.5. The rule submission must include a detailed demonstration of why an exception is warranted.
[67 FR 11227, Mar. 13, 2002, as amended at 77 FR 66345, Nov. 2, 2012]
Pt. 41, Subpt. C, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 41—Guidance on and Acceptable Practices for Position Limits and Position Accountability for Security Futures Products
(a)
Guidance for estimating deliverable supply.
(1) For an equity security, deliverable supply should be no greater than the free float of the security.
(2) For a debt security, deliverable supply should not include securities that are committed for long-term agreements (e.g., closed-end investment companies, structured products, or similar securities).
(3) Further guidance on estimating deliverable supply, including consideration of whether the underlying security is readily available, is found in appendix C to part 38 of this chapter.
(b)
Guidance and acceptable practices for setting limits on cash-settled equity index security futures products
—(1)
Guidance for setting limits on cash-settled equity index security futures products.
For a security futures product cash settled to a narrow-based security index of equity securities, a designated contract market:
(i) May set the level of a position limit to that of a similar narrow-based equity index option listed on a national security exchange or association; or
(ii) Should consider the deliverable supply of equity securities underlying the index,
and should consider the index weighting and contract multiplier.
(2)
Acceptable practices for setting limits on cash-settled equity index security futures products.
For a security futures product cash settled to a narrow-based security index of equity securities weighted by the number of shares outstanding, a designated contract market may set a position limit as follows: First, determine the limit on a security futures product on each underlying equity security pursuant to § 41.25(b)(3)(i); second, multiply each such limit by the ratio of the 100-share contract size and the shares of the equity securities in the index; and third, determine the minimum level from step two and set the limit to that level, given a contract size of one U.S. dollar times the index, or for a larger contract size, reduce the level proportionately. If under these procedures each of the equity securities underlying the index is determined to be eligible for position accountability levels, the security futures product on the index itself is eligible for a position accountability level.
(c)
Guidance and acceptable practices for setting limits on debt security futures products
—(1)
Guidance for setting limits on debt security futures products.
A designated contract market should set the level of a position limit to no greater than the equivalent of 12.5 percent of the par value of the estimated deliverable supply of the underlying debt security. For a security futures product on more than one debt security, the limit should be based on the underlying debt security with the lowest estimated deliverable supply.
(2)
Acceptable practices for setting limits on debt security futures products.
[Reserved]
(d)
Guidance on position accountability.
A designated contract market may adopt a position accountability rule for any security futures product, in addition to a position limit rule required or adopted under § 41.25. Upon request by the designated contract market, traders who hold positions, either net or on the same side of the market, greater than such level specified pursuant to the rules of the designated contract market must provide information to the designated contract market and consent to halt increasing their positions when so ordered by the designated contract market.
(e)
Guidance on exemptions from position limits.
A designated contract market may approve exemptions from these position limits pursuant to rules that are consistent with § 150.5 of this chapter, or to rules that are consistent with rules of a national securities exchange or association regarding exemptions to securities option position limits or exercise limits.
[84 FR 51022, Sept. 27, 2019]

# Subpart D—Notice-Designated Contract Markets in Security Futures Products

# Source:
66 FR 44965, Aug. 27, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 41.31
Notice-designation requirements.
(a) Any board of trade that is a national securities exchange, a national securities association, or an alternative trading system, and that seeks to operate as a designated contract market in security futures products under section 5f of the Act, shall so notify the Commission. Such notification shall be filed with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, D.C. headquarters, in either electronic or hard copy form, shall be labeled as “Notice of Designation as a Contract Market in Security Futures Products,” and shall include:
(1) The name and address of the board of trade;
(2) The name and telephone number of a contact person designated to receive communications from the Commission on behalf of the board of trade;
(3) A description of the security futures products that the board of trade intends to make available for trading, including an identification of all facilities that would clear transactions in security futures products on behalf of the board of trade;
(4) A copy of the current rules of the board of trade; and
(5) A certification that the board of trade—
(i) Will not list or trade any contracts of sale for future delivery, except for security futures products;
(ii) Is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a national securities exchange, national securities association, or alternative trading system, and such registration is not suspended pursuant to an order by the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(iii) Will meet the criteria specified in subclauses (I) through (XI) of section 2(a)(1)(D)(i) of the Act, except as otherwise provided in section 2(a)(1)(D)(vi) of the Act, for each specific security futures product that the board of trade intends to make available for trading;
(iv) Will comply with the conditions for designation under this section and section 5f of the Act, including a specific representation by any alternative trading system that it is a member of a futures association registered under section 17 of the Act; and
(v) Will comply with the continuing obligations of regulation 41.32.
(b) A board of trade which files notice with the Commission under this section shall be deemed a designated contract market in security futures products upon the Commission's receipt of such notice. Accordingly, the Commission shall send prompt acknowledgment of receipt to the filer.
(c) Designation as a contract market in security futures products pursuant to this section shall be deemed suspended if the board of trade:
(1) Lists or trades any contracts of sale for future delivery, except for security futures products; or
(2) Has its registration as a national securities exchange, national securities association, or alternative trading system suspended pursuant to an order by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
§ 41.32
Continuing obligations.
(a)(1) A board of trade designated as a contract market in security futures products pursuant to § 41.31 of this chapter shall:
(i) Notify the Commission of any change in its regulatory status with the Securities and Exchange Commission or with a futures association registered under section 17 of the Act;
(ii) Comply with the filing requirements of section 2(a)(1)(D)(vii) of the Act each time the board of trade lists a security futures product for trading;
(iii) Provide the Commission with any new rules or rule amendments that relate to the trading of security futures products, including both operational rules and the terms and conditions of products listed for trading on the facility, promptly after final implementation of such rules or rule amendments; and
(iv) Upon request, file promptly with the Commission—
(A) Such information related to its business as a designated contract market in security futures products as the Commission may request; and
(B) A written demonstration, containing such supporting data and other information and documents as the Commission may specify, that the board of trade is in compliance with one or more applicable provisions of the Act or regulations thereunder as specified in the request.
(2) Any information filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be addressed to the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, D.C. headquarters, shall be labeled “SFPCM Continuing Obligations,” and may be transmitted in either electronic or hard copy form.
(b) Except as exempted under section 5f(b) of the Act or under §§ 41.33 and 41.34 of this chapter, any board of trade designated as a contract market in security futures products pursuant to § 41.31 of this chapter shall be subject to all applicable requirements of the Act and regulations thereunder. Failure to comply shall subject the board of trade to Commission action under, among other provisions, sections 5e and 6(b) of the Act.
§ 41.33
Applications for exemptive orders.
(a) Any board of trade designated as a contract market in security futures products pursuant to § 41.31 of this chapter may apply to the Commission for an exemption from any provision of the Act or regulations thereunder. Except as provided in sections 5f(b)(1) and 5f(b)(2) of the Act, the Commission shall have sole discretion to exempt a board of trade, conditionally or unconditionally, from any provision of the Act or regulations thereunder pursuant to this section. The Commission may issue such an exemptive order in response to an application only to the extent it finds, after review, that the issuance of an exemptive order is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and is consistent with the protection of investors.
(b) Each application for exemptive relief must comply with the requirements of this section. The Commission may, in its sole discretion, decline to
entertain any application for an exemptive order under this section without explanation;
provided, however,
that the Commission shall notify the board of trade of such a decision in writing.
(c)
Application requirements.
(1) Each application for an exemptive order made pursuant to this section must include:
(i) The name and address of the board of trade requesting relief, and the name and telephone number of a person whom Commission staff may contact to obtain additional information regarding the request;
(ii) A certification that the registration of the board of trade is not suspended pursuant to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(iii) The provision(s) of the Act or regulations thereunder from which the board of trade seeks relief and, if applicable, whether the board of trade is otherwise subject to similar provisions as a result of Securities and Exchange Commission jurisdiction; and
(iv) The type of relief requested and the order sought; an explanation of the need for relief, including all material facts and circumstances giving rise to the request; and the extent to which such relief is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors.
(2) Each application must be filed with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, D.C. headquarters, in either electronic or hard copy form, signed by an authorized representative of the board of trade, and labeled “Application for an Exemptive Order pursuant to Commission regulation 41.33.”
(d)
Review Period.
(1) The Commission shall have 90 days upon receipt of an application for an exemptive order in which to make a determination as to whether such relief should be granted or denied.
(2) The Commission may request additional information from the applicant at any time prior to the end of the review period.
(3) The Commission may stay the review period if it determines that an application is materially incomplete;
provided, however,
that this paragraph (d) does not limit the Commission's authority, under paragraph (b) of this section, to decline to entertain an application.
(e) Upon conclusion of the review period, the Commission shall issue an order granting or denying relief, or granting relief subject to conditions;
provided, however,
that the Commission's obligations under this paragraph shall not limit its authority, under paragraph (b) of this section, to decline to entertain an application. The Commission shall notify the board of trade in writing of its decision to grant or deny relief under this paragraph.
(f) An application for an exemptive order may be withdrawn by the applicant at any time, without explanation, by filing with the Secretary of the Commission a written request for withdrawal, signed by an authorized representative of the board of trade.
(g) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Division of Market Oversight, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, authority to make determinations on applications for exemptive orders pursuant to this section;
provided, however,
that:
(1) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section; and
(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight under paragraph (g) of this section.
[66 FR 44511, Aug. 23, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 62352, Oct. 7, 2002]
§ 41.34
Exempt Provisions.
Any board of trade notice-designated as a contract market in security futures products pursuant to § 41.31 also shall be exempt from:
(a) The following provisions of the Act, pursuant to section 5f(b)(1) of the Act:
(1) Section 4(c)(c);
(2) Section 4(c)(e);
(3) Section 4(c)(g);
(4) Section 4j;
(5) Section 5;
(6) Section 5c;
(7) Section 6a;
(8) Section 8(d);
(9) Section 9(f);
(10) Section 16 and;
(b) The following provisions, pursuant to section 5f(b)(4) of the Act:
(1) Section 6(a);
(2) Part 38 of this chapter;
(3) Part 40 of this chapter; and
(4) Section 41.27.
[67 FR 11229, Mar. 13, 2002]

# Subpart E—Customer Accounts and Margin Requirements

# Source:
67 FR 53171, Aug. 14, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 41.41
Security futures products accounts.
(a)
Where security futures products may be held.
(1) A person registered with the Commission as a futures commission merchant pursuant to section 4f(a)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”) and registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) as a broker or dealer pursuant to section 15(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Securities Exchange Act”) (“Full FCM/Full BD”) may hold all of a customer's security futures products in a futures account, all of a customer's security futures products in a securities account, or some of a customer's security futures products in a futures account and other security futures products of the same customer in a securities account. A person registered with the Commission as a futures commission merchant pursuant to section 4f(a)(2) of the CEA (a notice-registered FCM) may hold a customer's security futures products only in a securities account. A person registered with the SEC as a broker or dealer pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act (a notice-registered broker-dealer) may hold a customer's security futures products only in a futures account.
(2) A Full FCM/Full BD shall establish written policies or procedures for determining whether customer security futures products will be placed in a futures account and/or a securities account and, if applicable, the process by which a customer may elect the type or types of account in which security futures products will be held (including the procedure to be followed if a customer fails to make an election of account type).
(b)
Disclosure requirements.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2), before a futures commission merchant accepts the first order for a security futures product from or on behalf of a customer, the firm shall furnish the customer with a disclosure document containing the following information:
(i) A description of the protections provided by the requirements set forth under section 4d of the CEA applicable to a futures account;
(ii) A description of the protections provided by the requirements set forth under Securities Exchange Act Rule 15c3-3 and the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 applicable to a securities account;
(iii) A statement indicating whether the customer's security futures products will be held in a futures account and/or a securities account, or whether the firm permits customers to make or change an election of account type; and
(iv) A statement that, with respect to holding the customer's security futures products in a securities account or a futures account, the alternative regulatory scheme is not available to the customer in connection with that account.
(2) Where a customer account containing an open security futures product position is transferred to a futures commission merchant, that futures commission merchant may instead provide the statements described in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) and (b)(1)(iv) above no later than ten business days after the date the account is transferred.
(c)
Changes in account type.
A Full FCM/Full BD may change the type of account in which a customer's security futures products will be held; provided, that:
(1) The firm creates a record of each change in account type, including the name of the customer, the account number, the date the firm received the customer's request to change the account type, if applicable, and the date the change in account type became effective; and
(2) The firm, at least ten business days before the customer's account type is changed:
(i) Notifies the customer in writing of the date that the change will become effective; and
(ii) Provides the customer with the disclosures described in paragraph (b)(1) above.
(d)
Recordkeeping requirements.
The Commission's recordkeeping rules set forth in §§ 1.31, 1.32, 1.35, 1.36, 1.37, 4.23, 4.33, and 18.05 of this chapter shall apply to security futures product transactions and positions in a futures account (as that term is defined in § 1.3 of this chapter). The rules in the preceding sentence shall not apply to security futures product transactions and positions in a securities account (as that term is defined in § 1.3 of this chapter); provided, that the SEC's recordkeeping rules apply to those transactions and positions.
(e)
Reports to customers.
The Commission's reporting requirements set forth in §§ 1.33 and 1.46 of this chapter shall apply to security futures product transactions and positions in a futures account (as that term is defined in § 1.3 of this chapter). These rules shall not apply to security futures product transactions and positions in a securities account (as that term is defined in § 1.3 of this chapter);
provided,
that the SEC's rules set forth in §§ 240.10b-10 and 240.15c3-2 of this chapter regarding delivery of confirmations and account statements apply to those transactions and positions.
(f)
Segregation of customer funds.
All money, securities, or property held to margin, guarantee or secure security futures products held in a futures account, or accruing to customers as a result of such products, are subject to the segregation requirements of section 4d of the CEA and the rules thereunder.
[67 FR 58297, Sept. 13, 2002, as amended at 83 FR 7997, Feb. 23, 2018; 86 FR 19421, Apr. 13, 2021]
§ 41.42
Customer margin requirements for security futures—authority, purpose, interpretation, and scope.
(a)
Authority and purpose.
Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49, and 17 CFR 242.400 through 242.406 (“this Regulation”) are issued by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) jointly with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), pursuant to authority delegated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under section 7(c)(2)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). The principal purpose of this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49) is to regulate customer margin collected by brokers, dealers, and members of national securities exchanges, including futures commission merchants required to register as brokers or dealers under section 15(b)(11) of the Exchange Act, relating to security futures.
(b)
Interpretation.
This Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49) shall be jointly interpreted by the SEC and the Commission, consistent with the criteria set forth in clauses (i) through (iv) of section 7(c)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and the provisions of Regulation T (12 CFR part 220).
(c)
Scope.
(1) This Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49) does not preclude a self-regulatory authority, under rules that are effective in accordance with section 19(b)(2) of the Exchange Act or section 19(b)(7) of the Exchange Act and, as applicable, section 5c(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”), or a security futures intermediary from imposing additional margin requirements on security futures, including higher initial or maintenance margin levels, consistent with this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49), or from taking appropriate action to preserve its financial integrity.
(2) This Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49) does not apply to:
(i) Financial relations between a customer and a security futures intermediary to the extent that they comply with a portfolio margining system under rules that meet the criteria set forth in section 7(c)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and that are effective in accordance with section 19(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and, as applicable, section 5c(c) of the Act;
(ii) Financial relations between a security futures intermediary and a foreign person involving security futures
traded on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade;
(iii) Margin requirements that clearing agencies registered under section 17A of the Exchange Act or derivatives clearing organizations registered under section 5b of the Act impose on their members;
(iv) Financial relations between a security futures intermediary and a person based on a good faith determination by the security futures intermediary that such person is an exempted person; and
(v) Financial relations between a security futures intermediary and, or arranged by a security futures intermediary for, a person relating to trading in security futures by such person for its own account, if such person:
(A) Is a member of a national securities exchange or national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Exchange Act; and
(B) Is registered with such exchange or such association as a security futures dealer pursuant to rules that are effective in accordance with section 19(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and, as applicable, section 5c(c) of the Act, that:
(
1
) Require such member to be registered as a floor trader or a floor broker with the Commission under section 4f(a)(1) of the Act, or as a dealer with the SEC under section 15(b) of the Exchange Act;
(
2
) Require such member to maintain records sufficient to prove compliance with this paragraph (c)(2)(v) and the rules of the exchange or association of which it is a member;
(
3
) Require such member to hold itself out as being willing to buy and sell security futures for its own account on a regular or continuous basis; and
(
4
) Provide for disciplinary action, including revocation of such member's registration as a security futures dealer, for such member's failure to comply with this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49) or the rules of the exchange or association.
(d)
Exemption.
The Commission may exempt, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, financial relations involving any security futures intermediary, customer, position, or transaction, or any class of security futures intermediaries, customers, positions, or transactions, from one or more requirements of this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49), if the Commission determines that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of customers. An exemption granted pursuant to this paragraph shall not operate as an exemption from any SEC rules. Any exemption that may be required from such rules must be obtained separately from the SEC.
§ 41.43
Definitions.
(a) For purposes of this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49) only, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section.
(1)
Applicable margin rules
and
margin rules applicable to an account
mean the rules and regulations applicable to financial relations between a security futures intermediary and a customer with respect to security futures and related positions carried in a securities account or futures account as provided in § 41.44(a) of this subpart.
(2)
Broker
shall have the meaning provided in section 3(a)(4) of the Exchange Act.
(3)
Contract multiplier
means the number of units of a narrow-based security index expressed as a dollar amount, in accordance with the terms of the security future contract.
(4)
Current market value
means, on any day:
(i) With respect to a security future:
(A) If the instrument underlying such security future is a stock, the product of the daily settlement price of such security future as shown by any regularly published reporting or quotation service, and the applicable number of shares per contract; or
(B) If the instrument underlying such security future is a narrow-based security index, as defined in section 1a(35)(A) of the Act, the product of the daily settlement price of such security future as shown by any regularly published reporting or quotation service, and the applicable contract multiplier.
(ii) With respect to a security other than a security future, the most recent closing sale price of the security, as
shown by any regularly published reporting or quotation service. If there is no recent closing sale price, the security futures intermediary may use any reasonable estimate of the market value of the security as of the most recent close of business.
(5)
Customer
excludes an exempted person and includes:
(i) Any person or persons acting jointly:
(A) On whose behalf a security futures intermediary effects a security futures transaction or carries a security futures position; or
(B) Who would be considered a customer of the security futures intermediary according to the ordinary usage of the trade;
(ii) Any partner in a security futures intermediary that is organized as a partnership who would be considered a customer of the security futures intermediary absent the partnership relationship; and
(iii) Any joint venture in which a security futures intermediary participates and which would be considered a customer of the security futures intermediary if the security futures intermediary were not a participant.
(6)
Daily settlement price
means, with respect to a security future, the settlement price of such security future determined at the close of trading each day, under the rules of the applicable exchange, clearing agency, or derivatives clearing organization.
(7)
Dealer
shall have the meaning provided in section 3(a)(5) of the Exchange Act.
(8)
Equity
means the equity or margin equity in a securities or futures account, as computed in accordance with the margin rules applicable to the account and subject to adjustment under § 41.46(c), (d) and (e) of this subpart.
(9)
Exempted person
means:
(i) A member of a national securities exchange, a registered broker or dealer, or a registered futures commission merchant, a substantial portion of whose business consists of transactions in securities, commodity futures, or commodity options with persons other than brokers, dealers, futures commission merchants, floor brokers, or floor traders, and includes a person who:
(A) Maintains at least 1000 active accounts on an annual basis for persons other than brokers, dealers, persons associated with a broker or dealer, futures commission merchants, floor brokers, floor traders, and persons affiliated with a futures commission merchant, floor broker, or floor trader that are effecting transactions in securities, commodity futures, or commodity options;
(B) Earns at least $10 million in gross revenues on an annual basis from transactions in securities, commodity futures, or commodity options with persons other than brokers, dealers, persons associated with a broker or dealer, futures commission merchants, floor brokers, floor traders, and persons affiliated with a futures commission merchant, floor broker, or floor trader; or
(C) Earns at least 10 percent of its gross revenues on an annual basis from transactions in securities, commodity futures, or commodity options with persons other than brokers, dealers, persons associated with a broker or dealer, futures commission merchants, floor brokers, floor traders, and persons affiliated with a futures commission merchant, floor broker, or floor trader.
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(9)(i) of this section only,
persons affiliated with
a futures commission merchant, floor broker, or floor trader means any partner, officer, director, or branch manager of such futures commission merchant, floor broker, or floor trader (or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions), any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such futures commission merchant, floor broker, or floor trader, or any employee of such a futures commission merchant, floor broker, or floor trader.
(iii) A member of a national securities exchange, a registered broker or dealer, or a registered futures commission merchant that has been in existence for less than one year may meet the definition of exempted person based on a six-month period.
(10)
Exempted security
shall have the meaning provided in section 3(a)(12) of the Exchange Act.
(11)
Floor broker
shall have the meaning provided in section 1a(16) of the Act.
(12)
Floor trader
shall have the meaning provided in section 1a(17) of the Act.
(13)
Futures account
shall have the meaning provided in § 1.3 of this chapter.
(14)
Futures commission merchant
shall have the meaning provided in section 1a(20) of the Act.
(15)
Good faith,
with respect to making a determination or accepting a statement concerning financial relations with a person, means that the security futures intermediary is alert to the circumstances surrounding such financial relations, and if in possession of information that would cause a prudent person not to make the determination or accept the notice or certification without inquiry, investigates and is satisfied that it is correct.
(16)
Listed option
means a put or call option that is:
(i) Issued by a clearing agency that is registered under section 17A of the Exchange Act or cleared and guaranteed by a derivatives clearing organization that is registered under section 5b of the Act; and
(ii) Traded on or subject to the rules of a self-regulatory authority.
(17)
Margin call
means a demand by a security futures intermediary to a customer for a deposit of cash, securities or other assets to satisfy the required margin for security futures or related positions or a special margin requirement.
(18)
Margin deficiency
means the amount by which the required margin in an account is not satisfied by the equity in the account, as computed in accordance with § 41.46 of this subpart.
(19)
Margin equity security
shall have the meaning provided in Regulation T.
(20)
Margin security
shall have the meaning provided in Regulation T.
(21)
Member
shall have the meaning provided in section 3(a)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall include persons registered under section 15(b)(11) of the Exchange Act that are permitted to effect transactions on a national securities exchange without the services of another person acting as executing broker.
(22)
Money market mutual fund
means any security issued by an investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 that is considered a money market fund under § 270.2a-7 of this title.
(23)
Persons associated with a broker or dealer
shall have the meaning provided in section 3(a)(18) of the Exchange Act.
(24)
Regulation T
means Regulation T promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 12 CFR part 220, as amended from time to time.
(25)
Regulation T collateral value,
with respect to a security, means the current market value of the security reduced by the percentage of required margin for a position in the security held in a margin account under Regulation T.
(26)
Related position,
with respect to a security future, means any position in an account that is combined with the security future to create an offsetting position as provided in § 41.45(b)(2) of this subpart.
(27)
Related transaction,
with respect to a position or transaction in a security future, means:
(i) Any transaction that creates, eliminates, increases or reduces an offsetting position involving a security future and a related position, as provided in § 41.45(b)(2) of this subpart; or
(ii) Any deposit or withdrawal of margin for the security future or a related position, except as provided in § 41.47(b) of this subpart.
(28)
Securities account
shall have the meaning provided in § 1.3 of this chapter.
(29)
Security futures intermediary
means any creditor as defined in Regulation T with respect to its financial relations with any person involving security futures, including:
(i) Any futures commission merchant;
(ii) Any partner, officer, director, or branch manager (or person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions) of a futures commission merchant;
(iii) Any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under
common control with (except for business entities controlling or under common control with) a futures commission merchant; and
(iv) Any employee of a futures commission merchant (except an employee whose functions are solely clerical or ministerial).
(30)
Self-regulatory authority
means a national securities exchange registered under section 6 of the Exchange Act, a national securities association registered under section 15A of the Exchange Act, or a contract market registered under section 5 of the Act or section 5f of the Act.
(31)
Special margin requirement
shall have the meaning provided in § 41.46(e)(1)(ii) of this subpart.
(32)
Variation settlement
means any credit or debit to a customer account, made on a daily or intraday basis, for the purpose of marking to market a security future or any other contract that is:
(i) Issued by a clearing agency that is registered under section 17A of the Exchange Act or cleared and guaranteed by a derivatives clearing organization that is registered under section 5b of the Act; and
(ii) Traded on or subject to the rules of a self-regulatory authority.
(b) Terms used in this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49) and not otherwise defined in this section shall have the meaning set forth in the margin rules applicable to the account.
(c) Terms used in this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49) and not otherwise defined in this section or in the margin rules applicable to the account shall have the meaning set forth in the Exchange Act and the Act; if the definitions of a term in the Exchange Act and the Act are inconsistent as applied in particular circumstances, such term shall have the meaning set forth in rules, regulations, or interpretations jointly promulgated by the SEC and the Commission.
[67 FR 53171, Aug. 14, 2002, as amended at 77 FR 66346, Nov. 2, 2012; 83 FR 7997, Feb. 23, 2018]
§ 41.44
General provisions.
(a)
Applicable margin rules.
Except to the extent inconsistent with this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49):
(1) A security futures intermediary that carries a security future on behalf of a customer in a securities account shall record and conduct all financial relations with respect to such security future and related positions in accordance with Regulation T and the margin rules of the self-regulatory authorities of which the security futures intermediary is a member.
(2) A security futures intermediary that carries a security future on behalf of a customer in a futures account shall record and conduct all financial relations with respect to such security future and related positions in accordance with the margin rules of the self-regulatory authorities of which the security futures intermediary is a member.
(b)
Separation and consolidation of accounts.
(1) The requirements for security futures and related positions in one account may not be met by considering items in any other account, except as permitted or required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section or applicable margin rules. If withdrawals of cash, securities or other assets deposited as margin are permitted under this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49), bookkeeping entries shall be made when such cash, securities, or assets are used for purposes of meeting requirements in another account.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the security futures intermediary shall consider all futures accounts in which security futures and related positions are held that are within the same regulatory classification or account type and are owned by the same customer to be a single account for purposes of this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49). The security futures intermediary may combine such accounts with other futures accounts that are within the same regulatory classification or account type and are owned by the same customer for purposes of computing a customer's overall margin requirement, as permitted or required by applicable margin rules.
(c)
Accounts of partners.
If a partner of the security futures intermediary
has an account with the security futures intermediary in which security futures or related positions are held, the security futures intermediary shall disregard the partner's financial relations with the firm (as shown in the partner's capital and ordinary drawing accounts) in calculating the margin or equity of any such account.
(d)
Contribution to joint venture.
If an account in which security futures or related positions are held is the account of a joint venture in which the security futures intermediary participates, any interest of the security futures intermediary in the joint account in excess of the interest which the security futures intermediary would have on the basis of its right to share in the profits shall be margined in accordance with this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49).
(e)
Extensions of credit.
(1) No security futures intermediary may extend or maintain credit to or for any customer for the purpose of evading or circumventing any requirement under this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49).
(2) A security futures intermediary may arrange for the extension or maintenance of credit to or for any customer by any person, provided that the security futures intermediary does not willfully arrange credit that would constitute a violation of Regulation T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR parts 220, 221, and 224) by such person.
(f)
Change in exempted person status.
Once a person ceases to qualify as an exempted person, it shall notify the security futures intermediary of this fact before entering into any new security futures transaction or related transaction that would require additional margin to be deposited under this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49). Financial relations with respect to any such transactions shall be subject to the provisions of this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49).
§ 41.45
Required margin.
(a)
Applicability.
Each security futures intermediary shall determine the required margin for the security futures and related positions held on behalf of a customer in a securities account or futures account as set forth in this section.
(b)
Required margin
—(1)
General rule.
The required margin for each long or short position in a security future shall be fifteen (15) percent of the current market value of such security future.
(2)
Offsetting positions.
Notwithstanding the margin levels specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a self-regulatory authority may set the required initial or maintenance margin level for an offsetting position involving security futures and related positions at a level lower than the level that would be required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section if such positions were margined separately, pursuant to rules that meet the criteria set forth in section 7(c)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and are effective in accordance with section 19(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and, as applicable, section 5c(c) of the Act.
(c)
Procedures for certain margin level adjustments.
An exchange registered under section 6(g) of the Exchange Act, or a national securities association registered under section 15A(k) of the Exchange Act, may raise or lower the required margin level for a security future to a level not lower than that specified in this section, in accordance with section 19(b)(7) of the Exchange Act.
[67 FR 53171, Aug. 14, 2002, as amended at 85 FR 75146, Nov. 24, 2020]
§ 41.46
Type, form and use of margin.
(a)
When margin is required.
Margin is required to be deposited whenever the required margin for security futures and related positions in an account is not satisfied by the equity in the account, subject to adjustment under paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Acceptable margin deposits.
(1) The required margin may be satisfied by a deposit of cash, margin securities (subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section), exempted securities, any other asset permitted under Regulation T to satisfy a margin deficiency in a securities margin account, or any combination thereof, each as valued in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Shares of a money market mutual fund may be accepted as a margin deposit for purposes of this Regulation
(Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49),
Provided that:
(i) The customer waives any right to redeem the shares without the consent of the security futures intermediary and instructs the fund or its transfer agent accordingly;
(ii) The security futures intermediary (or clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization with which the shares are deposited as margin) obtains the right to redeem the shares in cash, promptly upon request; and
(iii) The fund agrees to satisfy any conditions necessary or appropriate to ensure that the shares may be redeemed in cash, promptly upon request.
(c)
Adjustments
—(1)
Futures accounts.
For purposes of this section, the equity in a futures account shall be computed in accordance with the margin rules applicable to the account, subject to the following:
(i) A security future shall have no value;
(ii) Each net long or short position in a listed option on a contract for future delivery shall be valued in accordance with the margin rules applicable to the account;
(iii) Except as permitted in paragraph (e) of this section, each margin equity security shall be valued at an amount no greater than its Regulation T collateral value;
(iv) Each other security shall be valued at an amount no greater than its current market value reduced by the percentage specified for such security in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) of this title;
(v) Freely convertible foreign currency may be valued at an amount no greater than its daily marked-to-market U.S. dollar equivalent;
(vi) Variation settlement receivable (or payable) by an account at the close of trading on any day shall be treated as a credit (or debit) to the account on that day; and
(vii) Each other acceptable margin deposit or component of equity shall be valued at an amount no greater than its value under Regulation T.
(2)
Securities accounts.
For purposes of this section, the equity in a securities account shall be computed in accordance with the margin rules applicable to the account, subject to the following:
(i) A security future shall have no value;
(ii) Freely convertible foreign currency may be valued at an amount no greater than its daily mark-to-market U.S. dollar equivalent; and
(iii) Variation settlement receivable (or payable) by an account at the close of trading on any day shall be treated as a credit (or debit) to the account on that day.
(d)
Satisfaction restriction.
Any transaction, position or deposit that is used to satisfy the required margin for security futures or related positions under this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49), including a related position, shall be unavailable to satisfy the required margin for any other position or transaction or any other requirement.
(e)
Alternative collateral valuation for margin equity securities in a futures account.
(1) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, a security futures intermediary need not value a margin equity security at its Regulation T collateral value when determining whether the required margin for the security futures and related positions in a futures account is satisfied,
provided that:
(i) The margin equity security is valued at an amount no greater than the current market value of the security reduced by the lowest percentage level of margin required for a long position in the security held in a margin account under the rules of a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Exchange Act;
(ii) Additional margin is required to be deposited on any day when the day's security futures transactions and related transactions would create or increase a margin deficiency in the account if the margin equity securities were valued at their Regulation T collateral value, and shall be for the amount of the margin deficiency so created or increased (a “special margin requirement”); and
(iii) Cash, securities, or other assets deposited as margin for the positions in an account are not permitted to be withdrawn from the account at any time that:
(A) Additional cash, securities, or other assets are required to be deposited as margin under this section for a transaction in the account on the same or a previous day; or
(B) The withdrawal, together with other transactions, deposits, and withdrawals on the same day, would create or increase a margin deficiency if the margin equity securities were valued at their Regulation T collateral value.
(2) All security futures transactions and related transactions on any day shall be combined to determine the amount of a special margin requirement. Additional margin deposited to satisfy a special margin requirement shall be valued at an amount no greater than its Regulation T collateral value.
(3) If the alternative collateral valuation method set forth in paragraph (e) of this section is used with respect to an account in which security futures or related positions are carried:
(i) An account that is transferred from one security futures intermediary to another may be treated as if it had been maintained by the transferee from the date of its origin, if the transferee accepts, in good faith, a signed statement of the transferor (or, if that is not practicable, of the customer), that any margin call issued under this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49) has been satisfied; and
(ii) An account that is transferred from one customer to another as part of a transaction, not undertaken to avoid the requirements of this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49), may be treated as if it had been maintained for the transferee from the date of its origin, if the security futures intermediary accepts in good faith and keeps with the transferee account a signed statement of the transferor describing the circumstances for the transfer.
(f)
Guarantee of accounts.
No guarantee of a customer's account shall be given any effect for purposes of determining whether the required margin in an account is satisfied, except as permitted under applicable margin rules.
§ 41.47
Withdrawal of margin.
(a)
By the customer.
Except as otherwise provided in § 41.46(e)(1)(ii) of this subpart, cash, securities, or other assets deposited as margin for positions in an account may be withdrawn, provided that the equity in the account after such withdrawal is sufficient to satisfy the required margin for the security futures and related positions in the account under this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49).
(b)
By the security futures intermediary.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the security futures intermediary, in its usual practice, may deduct the following items from an account in which security futures or related positions are held if they are considered in computing the balance of such account:
(1) Variation settlement payable, directly or indirectly, to a clearing agency that is registered under section 17A of the Exchange Act or a derivatives clearing organization that is registered under section 5b of the Act;
(2) Interest charged on credit maintained in the account;
(3) Communication or shipping charges with respect to transactions in the account;
(4) Payment of commissions, brokerage, taxes, storage and other charges lawfully accruing in connection with the positions and transactions in the account;
(5) Any service charges that the security futures intermediary may impose; or
(6) Any other withdrawals that are permitted from a securities margin account under Regulation T, to the extent permitted under applicable margin rules.
§ 41.48
Undermargined accounts.
(a)
Failure to satisfy margin call.
If any margin call required by this Regulation (Subpart E, §§ 41.42 through 41.49) is not met in full, the security futures intermediary shall take the deduction required with respect to an undermargined account in computing its net capital under SEC or Commission rules.
(b)
Accounts that liquidate to a deficit.
If at any time there is a liquidating deficit in an account in which security futures are held, the security futures
intermediary shall take steps to liquidate positions in the account promptly and in an orderly manner.
(c)
Liquidation of undermargined accounts not required.
Notwithstanding § 41.44(a)(1) of this subpart, § 220.4(d) of Regulation T (12 CFR 220.4(d)) respecting liquidation of positions in lieu of deposit shall not apply with respect to security futures carried in a securities account.
§ 41.49
Filing proposed margin rule changes with the Commission.
(a)
Notification requirement for notice-designated contract markets.
Any self-regulatory authority that is registered with the Commission as a designated contract market under section 5f of the Act shall, when filing a proposed rule change regarding customer margin for security futures with the SEC for approval in accordance with section 19(b)(2) of the Exchange Act, concurrently provide to the Commission a copy of such proposed rule change and any accompanying documentation filed with the SEC.
(b)
Filing requirements under the Act.
Any self-regulatory authority that is registered with the Commission as a designated contract market under section 5 of the Act shall, when filing a proposed rule change regarding customer margin for security futures with the SEC for approval in accordance with section 19(b)(2) of the Exchange Act, submit such proposed rule change to the Commission as follows:
(1) If the self-regulatory authority elects to request the Commission's prior approval for the proposed rule change pursuant to section 5c(c)(2) of the Act, it shall concurrently file the proposed rule change with the Commission in accordance with § 40.5 of this chapter.
(2) If the self-regulatory authority elects to implement a proposed rule change by written certification pursuant to section 5c(c)(1) of the Act, it shall concurrently provide to the Commission a copy of the proposed rule change and any accompanying documentation filed with the SEC. Promptly after obtaining SEC approval for the proposed rule change, such self-regulatory authority shall file its written certification with the Commission in accordance with § 40.6 of this chapter.
[67 FR 53171, Aug. 14, 2002, as amended at 77 FR 66346, Nov. 2, 2012]
Pt. 42

# PART 42—ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING, TERRORIST FINANCING

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
42.1
[Reserved]
42.2
Compliance with Bank Secrecy Act

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 5, 6, 6b, 6d, 6f, 6g, 7, 7a, 7a-1, 7a-2, 7b, 7b-1, 7b-2, 9, 12, 12a, 12c, 13a, 13a-1, 13c, 16 and 21; 12 U.S.C. 1786(q), 1818, 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, secs. 312-314, 319, 321, 326, 352, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.

# Source:
68 FR 25159, May 9, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 42.1
[Reserved]
§ 42.2
Compliance with Bank Secrecy Act.
Every futures commission merchant and introducing broker shall comply with the applicable provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act and the regulations promulgated by the Department of the Treasury under that Act at 31 CFR chapter X, and with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) and the implementing regulation jointly promulgated by the Commission and the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR 1026.220, which require that a customer identification program be adopted as part of the firm's Bank Secrecy Act compliance program.
[79 FR 2371, Jan. 14, 2014]
Pt. 43

# PART 43—REAL-TIME PUBLIC REPORTING
Sec.
43.1
Purpose, scope, and rules of construction.
43.2
Definitions.
43.3
Method and timing for real-time public reporting.
43.4
Swap transaction and pricing data to be publicly disseminated in real-time.
43.5
Time delays for public dissemination of swap transaction and pricing data.
43.6
Block trades and large notional off-facility swaps.
43.7
Delegation of authority.
Appendix A to Part 43—Swap Transaction and Pricing Data Elements
Appendix B to Part 43—Enumerated Physical Commodity Contracts and Other Contracts
Appendix C to Part 43—Time Delays for Public Dissemination
Appendix D to Part 43—Other Commodity Swap Categories
Appendix E to Part 43—Other Commodity Geographic Identification for Public Dissemination Pursuant to § 43.4(c)(4)(
iii
)
Appendix F to Part 43—Initial Appropriate Minimum Block Sizes by Asset Class for Block Trades and Large Notional Off-Facility Swaps

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2(a), 12a(5) and 24a, as amended by Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

# Source:
76 FR 1243, Jan. 9, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 43.1
Purpose, scope, and rules of construction.
(a)
Purpose.
This part implements rules relating to the reporting and public dissemination of certain swap transaction and pricing data to enhance transparency and price discovery pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).
(b)
Rules of construction.
The examples in this part are not exclusive. Compliance with a particular example or application of a sample clause, to the extent applicable, shall constitute compliance with the particular portion of the rule to which the example relates.
[76 FR 1243, Jan. 9, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75476, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 43.2
Definitions.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Appropriate minimum block size
means the minimum notional or principal amount for a category of swaps that qualifies a swap within such category as a block trade or large notional off-facility swap.
As soon as technologically practicable
means as soon as possible, taking into consideration the prevalence, implementation, and use of technology by comparable market participants.
Asset class
means a broad category of commodities including, without limitation, any “excluded commodity” as defined in section 1a(19) of the Act, with common characteristics underlying a swap. The asset classes include interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity, other commodity, and such other asset classes as may be determined by the Commission.
Block trade
means a publicly reportable swap transaction that:
(1) Involves a swap that is listed on a swap execution facility or designated contract market;
(2) Is executed on a swap execution facility's trading system or platform that is not an order book as defined in § 37.3(a)(3) of this chapter, or occurs away from the swap execution facility's or designated contract market's trading system or platform and is executed pursuant to the swap execution facility's or designated contract market's rules and procedures;
(3) Has a notional or principal amount at or above the appropriate minimum block size applicable to such swap; and
(4) Is reported subject to the rules and procedures of the swap execution facility or designated contract market and the rules described in this part, including the appropriate time delay requirements set forth in § 43.5.
Business day
means the twenty-four hour day, on all days except Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, in the location of the reporting party or registered entity reporting data for the swap.
Business hours
means the consecutive hours of one or more consecutive business days.
Cap size
means, for each swap category, the maximum notional or principal amount of a publicly reportable swap transaction that is publicly disseminated.
Economically related
means a direct or indirect reference to the same commodity at the same delivery location or locations, or with the same or a substantially similar cash market price series.
Embedded option
means any right, but not an obligation, provided to one party of a swap by the other party to
the swap that provides the party holding the option with the ability to change any one or more of the economic terms of the swap.
Execution
means an agreement by the parties, by any method, to the terms of a swap that legally binds the parties to such swap terms under applicable law.
Execution date
means the date of execution of a particular swap.
Futures-related swap
means a swap (as defined in section 1a(47) of the Act and as further defined by the Commission in implementing regulations) that is economically related to a futures contract.
Large notional off-facility swap
means an off-facility swap that has a notional or principal amount at or above the appropriate minimum block size applicable to such publicly reportable swap transaction and is not a block trade as defined in § 43.2.
Major currencies
means the currencies, and the cross-rates between the currencies, of Australia, Canada, Denmark, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, South Korea, Sweden, and Switzerland.
Mirror swap
means a swap:
(1) To which—
(i) A prime broker is a counterparty; or
(ii) Both counterparties are prime brokers;
(2) That is executed contemporaneously with a corresponding trigger swap;
(3) That has identical terms and pricing as the contemporaneously executed trigger swap, except:
(i) That a mirror swap, but not the corresponding trigger swap, may include any associated prime brokerage service fees agreed to by the parties; and
(ii) As provided in paragraph (5) of this “mirror swap” definition;
(4) With respect to which the sole price forming event is the occurrence of the contemporaneously executed trigger swap; and
(5) The execution of which is contingent on, or is triggered by, the execution of the contemporaneously executed trigger swap. The contractually agreed payments and delivery amounts under a mirror swap may differ from those amounts of the corresponding trigger swap if:
(i) Under all such mirror swaps to which the prime broker that is a counterparty to the trigger swap is also a counterparty, the aggregate contractually agreed payments and delivery amounts shall be equal to the aggregate of the contractually agreed payments and delivery amounts under the corresponding trigger swap; and
(ii) The market risk and contractually agreed payments and delivery amounts of all such mirror swaps to which a prime broker that is not a counterparty to the corresponding trigger swap is a party will offset each other, resulting in such prime broker having a flat market risk position at the execution of such mirror swaps.
Non-major currencies
means all other currencies that are not super-major currencies or major currencies.
Novation
means the process by which a party to a swap legally transfers all or part of its rights, liabilities, duties, and obligations under the swap to a new legal party other than the counterparty to the swap under applicable law.
Off-facility swap
means any swap transaction that is not executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.
Other commodity
means any commodity that is not categorized in the interest rate, credit, foreign exchange, equity, or other asset classes as may be determined by the Commission.
Physical commodity swap
means a swap in the other commodity asset class that is based on a tangible commodity.
Post-priced swap
means an off-facility swap for which the price is not determined as of the time of execution.
Pricing event
means the completion of the negotiation of the material economic terms and pricing of a trigger swap.
Prime broker
means, with respect to a mirror swap and its related trigger swap, a swap dealer acting in the capacity of a prime broker with respect to such swaps.
Prime broker swap
means any swap to which a swap dealer acting in the capacity as prime broker is a party.
Prime brokerage agency arrangement
means an arrangement pursuant to which a prime broker authorizes one of its clients, acting as agent for such prime broker, to cause the execution of a prime broker swap.
Prime brokerage agent
means a client of a prime broker who causes the execution of one or more prime broker swap(s) acting pursuant to a prime brokerage agency arrangement.
Public dissemination and publicly disseminate
means to make freely available and readily accessible to the public swap transaction and pricing data in a non-discriminatory manner, through the internet or other electronic data feed that is widely published. Such public dissemination shall be made in a consistent, usable, and machine-readable electronic format that allows the data to be downloaded, saved, and analyzed.
Publicly reportable swap transaction
means:
(1) Unless otherwise provided in this part—
(i) Any executed swap that is an arm's-length transaction between two parties that results in a corresponding change in the market risk position between the two parties; or
(ii) Any termination, assignment, novation, exchange, transfer, amendment, conveyance, or extinguishing of rights or obligations of a swap that changes the pricing of the swap.
(2) Examples of executed swaps that do not fall within the definition of publicly reportable swap may include:
(i) Internal swaps between one-hundred percent owned subsidiaries of the same parent entity;
(ii) Portfolio compression exercises; and
(iii) Swaps entered into by a derivatives clearing organization as part of managing the default of a clearing member.
(3) These examples represent swaps that are not at arm's length and thus are not publicly reportable swap transactions, notwithstanding that they do result in a corresponding change in the market risk position between two parties.
Reference price
means a floating price series (including derivatives contract prices and cash market prices or price indices) used by the parties to a swap or swaption to determine payments made, exchanged, or accrued under the terms of a swap contract.
Reporting counterparty
means the party to a swap with the duty to report a publicly reportable swap transaction in accordance with this part and section 2(a)(13)(F) of the Act.
Super-major currencies
means the currencies of the European Monetary Union, Japan, the United Kingdom, and United States.
Swap execution facility
means a trading system or platform that is a swap execution facility as defined in CEA section 1a(50) and in § 1.3 of this chapter and that is registered with the Commission pursuant to CEA section 5h and part 37 of this chapter.
Swap transaction and pricing data
means all data elements for a swap in appendix A of this part that are required to be reported or publicly disseminated pursuant to this part.
Swaps with composite reference prices
means swaps based on reference prices that are composed of more than one reference price from more than one swap category.
Trigger swap
means a swap:
(1) That is executed pursuant to one or more prime brokerage agency arrangements;
(2) To which one counterparty or both counterparties are prime brokers;
(3) That serves as the contingency for, or triggers, the execution of one or more corresponding mirror swaps; and
(4) That is a publicly reportable swap transaction that is required to be reported to a swap data repository pursuant to this part and part 45 of this chapter. A prime broker swap executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market shall be treated as the trigger swap for purposes of this part.
Trimmed data set
means a data set that has had extraordinarily large notional transactions removed by transforming the data into a logarithm with a base of 10, computing the mean, and excluding transactions that are beyond two standard deviations above the mean for the other commodity asset class and three standard deviations above the mean for all other asset classes.
(b)
Other defined terms.
Terms not defined in this part have the meanings assigned to the terms in § 1.3 of this chapter.
[85 FR 75476, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 43.3
Method and timing for real-time public reporting.
(a)
Responsibilities to report swap transaction and pricing data in real-time
—(1)
In general.
The reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, or designated contract market responsible for reporting a swap as determined by this section shall report the publicly reportable swap transaction to a swap data repository as soon as technologically practicable after execution, subject to paragraphs (a)(2) through (6) of this section. Such reporting shall be done in the manner set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Swaps executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.
For each swap executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market, the swap execution facility or designated contract market shall report swap transaction and pricing data to a swap data repository as soon as technologically practicable after execution.
(3)
Off-facility swaps.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (a)(4) through (6) of this section, a reporting counterparty shall report all publicly reportable swap transactions that are off-facility swaps to a swap data repository for the appropriate asset class in accordance with the rules set forth in this part as soon as technologically practicable after execution. Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties prior to execution, the following shall be the reporting counterparty for a publicly reportable swap transaction that is an off-facility swap:
(i) If only one party is a swap dealer or major swap participant, then the swap dealer or major swap participant shall be the reporting counterparty;
(ii) If one party is a swap dealer and the other party is a major swap participant, then the swap dealer shall be the reporting counterparty;
(iii) If both parties are swap dealers, then the swap dealers shall designate which party shall be the reporting counterparty prior to execution of such swap;
(iv) If both parties are major swap participants, then the major swap participants shall designate which party shall be the reporting counterparty prior to execution of such swap; and
(v) If neither party is a swap dealer or a major swap participant, then the parties shall designate which party shall be the reporting counterparty prior to execution of such swap.
(4)
Post-priced swaps
—(i)
Post-priced swaps reporting delays.
The reporting counterparty may delay reporting a post-priced swap to a swap data repository until the earlier of the price being determined and 11:59:59 p.m. eastern time on the execution date. If the price of a publicly reportable swap transaction that is a post-priced swap is not determined by 11:59:59 p.m. eastern time on the execution date, the reporting counterparty shall report to a swap data repository by 11:59:59 p.m. eastern time on the execution date all swap transaction and pricing data for such post-priced swap other than the price and any other then-undetermined swap transaction and pricing data and shall report each such item of previously undetermined swap transaction and pricing data as soon as technologically practicable after such item is determined.
(ii)
Other economic terms.
The post-priced swap reporting delay set forth in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section does not apply to publicly reportable swap transactions with respect to which the price is known at execution, but one or more other economic or other terms are not yet known at the time of execution.
(5)
Clearing swaps.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, if a clearing swap, as defined in § 45.1(a) of this chapter, is a publicly reportable swap transaction, the derivatives clearing organization that is a party to such swap shall be the reporting counterparty and shall fulfill all reporting counterparty obligations for such swap as soon as technologically practicable after execution.
(6)
Prime broker swaps.
(i) A mirror swap is not a publicly reportable swap transaction. Execution of a trigger
swap, for purposes of determining when execution occurs under paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, shall be deemed to occur at the time of the pricing event for such trigger swap.
(ii) With respect to a given set of swaps, if it is unclear which is, or are the mirror swap(s) and which is the related trigger swap (including, but not limited to, situations where there is more than one prime broker counterparty within such set of swaps and situations where the pricing event for each set of swaps occurs between prime brokerage agents of a common prime broker), or if under the prime brokerage agency arrangement, the trigger swap would occur between two prime brokers, the prime broker(s) shall determine which of the prime broker swaps shall be treated as the trigger swap and which are mirror swaps.
(iii) Trigger swaps shall be reported in accordance with the following:
(A) Trigger swaps executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market shall be reported pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
(B) Off-facility trigger swaps shall be reported pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, except that if a counterparty to a trigger swap is a swap dealer that is not a prime broker with respect to that trigger swap, then that swap dealer counterparty shall be the reporting counterparty for the trigger swap.
(7)
Third-party facilitation of data reporting.
Any person required by this part to report swap transaction and pricing data, while remaining fully responsible for reporting as required by this part, may contract with a third-party service provider to facilitate reporting.
(b)
Public dissemination of swap transaction and pricing data by swap data repositories in real-time
—(1)
In general.
A swap data repository shall publicly disseminate swap transaction and pricing data as soon as technologically practicable after such data is received from a swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty, unless such swap transaction and pricing data is subject to a time delay described in § 43.5, in which case the swap transaction and pricing data shall be publicly disseminated in the manner described in § 43.5.
(2)
Compliance with 17 CFR part 49.
Any swap data repository that accepts and publicly disseminates swap transaction and pricing data in real-time shall comply with part 49 of this chapter.
(3)
Prohibitions on disclosure of data.
(i) If there is a swap data repository for an asset class, a swap execution facility or designated contract market shall not disclose swap transaction and pricing data relating to publicly reportable swap transactions in such asset class, prior to the public dissemination of such data by a swap data repository unless:
(A) Such disclosure is made no earlier than the transmittal of such data to a swap data repository for public dissemination;
(B) Such disclosure is only made to market participants on such swap execution facility or designated contract market;
(C) Market participants are provided advance notice of such disclosure; and
(D) Any such disclosure by the swap execution facility or designated contract market is non-discriminatory.
(ii) If there is a swap data repository for an asset class, a swap dealer or major swap participant shall not disclose swap transaction and pricing data relating to publicly reportable swap transactions in such asset class, prior to the public dissemination of such data by a swap data repository unless:
(A) Such disclosure is made no earlier than the transmittal of such data to a swap data repository for public dissemination;
(B) Such disclosure is only made to the customer base of such swap dealer or major swap participant, including parties who maintain accounts with or have been swap counterparties with such swap dealer or major swap participant;
(C) Swap counterparties are provided advance notice of such disclosure; and
(D) Any such disclosure by the swap dealer or major swap participant is non-discriminatory.
(4)
Acceptance and public dissemination of all swaps in an asset class.
Any swap
data repository that accepts and publicly disseminates swap transaction and pricing data in real-time for swaps in its selected asset class shall accept and publicly disseminate swap transaction and pricing data in real-time for all publicly reportable swap transactions within such asset class, unless otherwise prescribed by the Commission.
(5)
Annual independent review.
Any swap data repository that accepts and publicly disseminates swap transaction and pricing data in real-time shall perform, on an annual basis, an independent review in accordance with established audit procedures and standards of the swap data repository's security and other system controls for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the requirements in this part.
(c)
Availability of swap transaction and pricing data to the public.
(1) Swap data repositories shall make swap transaction and pricing data available on their websites for a period of time that is at least one year after the initial public dissemination of such data and shall make instructions freely available on their websites on how to download, save, and search such data.
(2) Swap transaction and pricing data that is publicly disseminated pursuant to this paragraph shall be made available free of charge.
(d)
Data reported to swap data repositories.
(1) In reporting swap transaction and pricing data to a swap data repository, each reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, or designated contract market shall report the swap transaction and pricing data as described in the elements in appendix A of this part in the form and manner provided in the technical specification published by the Commission pursuant to § 43.7.
(2) In reporting swap transaction and pricing data to a swap data repository, each reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, or designated contract market making such report shall satisfy the data validation procedures of the swap data repository.
(3) In reporting swap transaction and pricing data to a swap data repository, each reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, or designated contract market shall use the facilities, methods, or data standards provided or required by the swap data repository to which the entity or reporting counterparty reports the data.
(e)
Correction of errors
—(1)
Swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, and reporting counterparties.
Any swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty that by any means becomes aware of any error relating to swap transaction and pricing data that it was required to report under this part shall correct the error. To correct an error, the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty shall submit complete and accurate swap transaction and pricing data to the swap data repository that maintains the swap transaction and pricing data for the relevant swap, or completely and accurately report swap transaction and pricing data for a swap that was not previously reported to a swap data repository as required under this part, as applicable. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the requirement to correct any error applies regardless of the state of the swap that is the subject of the swap transaction and pricing data, including a swap that has terminated, matured, or otherwise is no longer considered to be an open swap.
(i)
Timing requirement for correcting errors.
The swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty shall correct any error as soon as technologically practicable after discovery of the error. In all cases, errors shall be corrected within seven business days after discovery. Any error that a reporting counterparty discovers or could have discovered during the verification process required under § 45.14(b) of this chapter is considered discovered for the purposes of this section as of the moment the reporting counterparty began the verification process during which the error was first discovered or discoverable.
(ii)
Notification of failure to timely correct.
If the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty will, for any reason, fail to timely correct an error, the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty
shall notify the Director of the Division of Data, or such other employee or employees of the Commission as the Director may designate. The notification shall be in the form and manner, and according to the instructions, specified by the Director of the Division of Data in concurrence with the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or such other employee or employees of the Commission as the respective Director may designate. Unless otherwise instructed by the Director of the Division of Data, or such other employee or employees of the Commission as the Director may designate from time to time, the notification shall include an initial assessment of the scope of the error or errors that were discovered, and shall include any initial remediation plan for correcting the error or errors, if an initial remediation plan exists. This notification shall be made within 12 hours of the swap execution facility's, designated contract market's, or reporting counterparty's determination that it will fail to timely correct the error.
(iii)
Form and manner for error correction.
In order to satisfy the requirements of this section, a swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty shall conform to a swap data repository's policies and procedures created pursuant to § 49.10 of this chapter for correction of errors.
(2)
Non-reporting counterparties.
Any non-reporting counterparty that by any means becomes aware of any error in the swap transaction and pricing data for a swap to which it is the non-reporting counterparty, shall notify the reporting counterparty for the swap of the error as soon as technologically practicable after discovery, but not later than three business days following discovery of the error. If the non-reporting counterparty does not know the identity of the reporting counterparty, the non-reporting counterparty shall notify the swap execution facility or designated contract market where the swap was executed of the error as soon as technologically practicable after discovery, but no later than three business days following the discovery. Such notice from the non-reporting counterparty to the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty constitutes discovery under this section.
(3)
Exception.
The requirements to correct errors set forth in paragraph (e) of this section only apply to errors in swap transaction and pricing data relating to swaps for which the record retention period under § 45.2 of this chapter has not expired as of the time the error is discovered. Errors in swap transaction and pricing data relating to swaps for which the record retention periods under § 45.2 of this chapter have expired at the time that the errors are discovered are not subject to the requirements to correct errors set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.
(4)
Error defined
—(i)
Errors.
For the purposes of this part, there is an error when swap transaction and pricing data is not completely and accurately reported. This includes, but is not limited to, the following circumstances:
(A) Any of the swap transaction and pricing data for a swap reported to a swap data repository is incorrect or any of the swap transaction and pricing data that is maintained by a swap data repository differs from any of the relevant swap transaction and pricing data contained in the books and records of a party to the swap.
(B) Any of the swap transaction and pricing data for a swap that is required to be reported to a swap data repository or to be maintained by a swap data repository is not reported to a swap data repository or is not maintained by the swap data repository as required by this part.
(C) None of the swap transaction and pricing data for a swap that is required to be reported to a swap data repository or to be maintained by a swap data repository is reported to a swap data repository or is maintained by a swap data repository.
(D) Any of the swap transaction and pricing data for a swap that is no longer an open swap is maintained by the swap data repository as if the swap is still an open swap.
(ii)
Presumption.
For the purposes of this section, there is a presumption that an error exists if the swap data or the swap transaction and pricing data that is maintained and disseminated by
an SDR for a swap is not complete and accurate. This includes, but is not limited to, the swap data that the SDR makes available to the reporting counterparty for verification under § 49.11 of this chapter.
(f)
Data validation acceptance message.
(1) A swap data repository shall validate each swap transaction and pricing data report submitted to the swap data repository and notify the reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, or designated contract market submitting the report whether the report satisfied the data validation procedures of the swap data repository as soon as technologically practicable after accepting the swap transaction and pricing data report. A swap data repository may satisfy the requirements of this paragraph by making available data validation acceptance messages as required by § 49.10 of this chapter.
(2) If a swap transaction and pricing data report submitted to a swap data repository does not satisfy the data validation procedures of the swap data repository, the reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, or designated contract market required to submit the report has not satisfied its obligation to report swap transaction and pricing data in the manner provided by paragraph (d) of this section. The reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, or designated contract market has not satisfied its obligation until it submits the swap transaction and pricing data report in the manner provided by paragraph (d) of this section, which includes the requirement to satisfy the data validation procedures of the swap data repository.
(g)
Fees.
Any fee or charge assessed on a reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, or designated contract market by a swap data repository that accepts and publicly disseminates swap transaction and pricing data in real-time for the collection of such data shall be equitable and non-discriminatory. If such swap data repository allows a fee discount based on the volume of data reported to it for public dissemination, then such discount shall be made available to all reporting counterparties, swap execution facilities, and designated contract markets in an equitable and non-discriminatory manner.
[76 FR 1243, Jan. 9, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75478, 75653, Nov. 25, 2020; 89 FR 71812, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 43.4
Swap transaction and pricing data to be publicly disseminated in real-time.
(a)
Public dissemination of data fields.
Any swap data repository that accepts and publicly disseminates swap transaction and pricing data in real-time shall publicly disseminate the information described in appendix A of this part for the swap transaction and pricing data, as applicable, in the form and manner provided in the technical specification published by the Commission pursuant to § 43.7.
(b)
Additional swap information.
A swap data repository that accepts and publicly disseminates swap transaction and pricing data in real-time may require reporting counterparties, swap execution facilities, and designated contract markets to report to such swap data repository information that is necessary to compare the swap transaction and pricing data that was publicly disseminated in real-time to the data reported to a swap data repository pursuant to section 2(a)(13)(G) of the Act or to confirm that parties to a swap have reported in a timely manner pursuant to § 43.3. Such additional information shall not be publicly disseminated by the swap data repository.
(c)
Anonymity of the parties to a publicly reportable swap transaction
—(1)
In general.
Swap transaction and pricing data that is publicly disseminated in real-time shall not disclose the identities of the parties to the swap or otherwise facilitate the identification of a party to a swap. A swap data repository that accepts and publicly disseminates swap transaction and pricing data in real-time shall not publicly disseminate such data in a manner that discloses or otherwise facilitates the identification of a party to a swap.
(2)
Actual product description reported to swap data repository.
Reporting counterparties, swap execution facilities, and designated contract markets shall provide a swap data repository with swap transaction and pricing data that includes an actual description of
the underlying asset(s). This requirement is separate from the requirement that a reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, or designated contract market shall report swap data to a swap data repository pursuant to section 2(a)(13)(G) of the Act and 17 CFR chapter I.
(3)
Public dissemination of the actual description of underlying asset(s).
Notwithstanding the anonymity protection for certain swaps in the other commodity asset class in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, a swap data repository shall publicly disseminate the actual underlying asset(s) of all publicly reportable swap transactions in the interest rate, credit, equity, and foreign exchange asset classes.
(4)
Public dissemination of the underlying asset(s) for certain swaps in the other commodity asset class.
A swap data repository shall publicly disseminate swap transaction and pricing data in the other commodity asset class as described in this paragraph.
(i) A swap data repository shall publicly disseminate swap transaction and pricing data for publicly reportable swap transactions in the other commodity asset class in the manner described in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(ii) The actual underlying asset(s) shall be publicly disseminated for the following publicly reportable swap transactions in the other commodity asset class:
(A) Any publicly reportable swap transaction that references one of the contracts described in appendix B to this part;
(B) Any publicly reportable swap transaction that is economically related to one of the contracts described in appendix B of this part; or
(C) Any publicly reportable swap transaction executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.
(iii) The underlying assets of swaps in the other commodity asset class that are not described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section shall be publicly disseminated by limiting the geographic detail of the underlying asset(s). The identification of any specific delivery point or pricing point associated with the underlying asset of such other commodity swap shall be publicly disseminated pursuant to appendix E of this part.
(d)
Reporting of notional or principal amounts to a swap data repository
—(1)
Off-facility swaps.
The reporting counterparty shall report the actual notional or principal amount of any publicly reportable swap transaction that is an off-facility swap to a swap data repository that accepts and publicly disseminates such data pursuant to this part.
(2)
Swaps executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.
(i) A swap execution facility or designated contract market shall report the actual notional or principal amount for all swaps executed on or pursuant to the rules of such swap execution facility or designated contract market to a swap data repository that accepts and publicly disseminates such data pursuant to this part.
(ii) The actual notional or principal amount for any block trade executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market shall be reported to the swap execution facility or designated contract market pursuant to the rules of the swap execution facility of designated contract market.
(e)
Public dissemination of notional or principal amounts.
The notional or principal amount of a publicly reportable swap transaction shall be publicly disseminated by a swap data repository subject to rounding as set forth in paragraph (f) of this section, and the cap size as set forth in paragraph (g) of this section.
(f)
Process to determine appropriate rounded notional or principal amounts.
(1) If the notional or principal amount is less than one thousand, round to nearest five, but in no case shall a publicly disseminated notional or principal amount be less than five;
(2) If the notional or principal amount is less than 10 thousand but equal to or greater than one thousand, round to nearest one hundred;
(3) If the notional or principal amount is less than 100 thousand but equal to or greater than 10 thousand, round to nearest one thousand;
(4) If the notional or principal amount is less than one million but equal to or greater than 100 thousand, round to nearest 10 thousand;
(5) If the notional or principal amount is less than 100 million but equal to or greater than one million, round to the nearest one million;
(6) If the notional or principal amount is less than 500 million but equal to or greater than 100 million, round to the nearest 10 million;
(7) If the notional or principal amount is less than one billion but equal to or greater than 500 million, round to the nearest 50 million;
(8) If the notional or principal amount is less than 100 billion but equal to or greater than one billion, round to the nearest 100 million;
(9) If the notional or principal amount is equal to or greater than 100 billion, round to the nearest 10 billion.
(g)
Initial cap sizes.
Prior to the effective date of a Commission determination to establish an applicable post-initial cap size for a swap category as determined pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section, the initial cap sizes for each swap category shall be equal to the greater of the initial appropriate minimum block size for the respective swap category in appendix F of this part or the respective cap sizes in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section. If appendix F of this part does not provide an initial appropriate minimum block size for a particular swap category, the initial cap size for such swap category shall be equal to the appropriate cap size as set forth in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.—
(1) For swaps in the interest rate asset class, the publicly disseminated notional or principal amount for a swap subject to the rules in this part shall be:
(i) USD 250 million for swaps with a tenor greater than zero up to and including two years;
(ii) USD 100 million for swaps with a tenor greater than two years up to and including ten years; and
(iii) USD 75 million for swaps with a tenor greater than ten years.
(2) For swaps in the credit asset class, the publicly disseminated notional or principal amount for a swap subject to the rules in this part shall be USD 100 million.
(3) For swaps in the equity asset class, the publicly disseminated notional or principal amount for a swap subject to the rules in this part shall be USD 250 million.
(4) For swaps in the foreign exchange asset class, the publicly disseminated notional or principal amount for a swap subject to the rules in this part shall be USD 250 million.
(5) For swaps in the other commodity asset class, the publicly disseminated notional or principal amount for a swap subject to the rules in this part shall be USD 25 million.
(h)
Post-initial cap sizes.
(1) The Commission shall establish, by swap categories, post-initial cap sizes as described in paragraphs (h)(2) through (8) of this section.
(2) The Commission shall determine post-initial cap sizes for the swap categories described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(2)(i) through (xii), (c)(4)(i), and (c)(5)(i) of § 43.6 by utilizing reliable data collected by swap data repositories, as determined by the Commission, based on paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. If the Commission is unable to determine a cap size for any swap category described in § 43.6(c)(1)(i), the Commission shall assign a cap size of USD 100 million to such category.
(i) A one-year window of swap transaction and pricing data corresponding to each relevant swap category recalculated no less than once each calendar year; and
(ii) The 75-percent notional amount calculation described in § 43.6(d)(2).
(3) The Commission shall determine the post-initial cap size for a swap category in the foreign exchange asset class described in § 43.6(c)(4)(ii) as the lower of the notional amount of either currency's cap size for the swap category described in § 43.6(c)(4)(i).
(4) All swaps or instruments in the swap category described in § 43.6(c)(1)(ii) shall have a cap size of USD 100 million.
(5) All swaps or instruments in the swap category described in § 43.6(c)(2)(xiii) shall have a cap size of USD 400 million.
(6) All swaps or instruments in the swap category described in § 43.6(c)(3) shall have a cap size of USD 250 million.
(7) All swaps or instruments in the swap category described in § 43.6(c)(4)(iii) shall have a cap size of USD 150 million.
(8) All swaps or instruments in the swap category described in § 43.6(c)(5)(ii) shall have a cap size of USD 100 million.
(9) The Commission shall publish post-initial cap sizes on its website at
http://www.cftc.gov.
(10) Unless otherwise indicated on the Commission's website, the post-initial cap sizes shall be effective on the first day of the second month following the date of publication of the revised cap size.
[85 FR 75479, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 43.5
Time delays for public dissemination of swap transaction and pricing data.
(a)
In general.
The time delay for the real-time public reporting of a block trade or large notional off-facility swap begins upon execution, as defined in § 43.2. It is the responsibility of the swap data repository that accepts and publicly disseminates swap transaction and pricing data in real-time to ensure that the block trade or large notional off-facility swap transaction and pricing data is publicly disseminated pursuant to this part upon the expiration of the appropriate time delay described in paragraphs (d) through (h) of this section.
(b)
Public dissemination of publicly reportable swap transactions subject to a time delay.
A swap data repository shall publicly disseminate swap transaction and pricing data that is subject to a time delay pursuant to this paragraph, as follows:
(1) No later than the prescribed time delay period described in this paragraph;
(2) No sooner than the prescribed time delay period described in this paragraph; and
(3) Precisely upon the expiration of the time delay period described in this paragraph.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Time delay for block trades executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.
Any block trade that is executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market shall receive a time delay in the public dissemination of swap transaction and pricing data as follows:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) The time delay for public dissemination of swap transaction and pricing data for all publicly reportable swap transactions described in this paragraph (d) shall be 15 minutes immediately after execution of such publicly reportable swap transaction.
(e)
Time delay for large notional off-facility swaps subject to the mandatory clearing requirement
—(1)
In general.
This paragraph shall not apply to off-facility swaps that are excepted from the mandatory clearing requirement pursuant to section 2(h)(7) of the Act and 17 CFR chapter I, and this paragraph shall not apply to those swaps that are required to be cleared under section 2(h)(2) of the Act and 17 CFR chapter I but are not cleared.
(2)
Swaps subject to the mandatory clearing requirement where at least one party is a swap dealer or major swap participant.
Any large notional off-facility swap that is subject to the mandatory clearing requirement described in section 2(h)(1) of the Act and 17 CFR chapter I, in which at least one party is a swap dealer or major swap participant, shall receive a time delay as follows:
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) The time delay for public dissemination of swap transaction and pricing data for all swaps described in this paragraph (e)(2) shall be 15 minutes immediately after execution of such swap.
(3)
Swaps subject to the mandatory clearing requirement where neither party is a swap dealer or major swap participant.
Any large notional off-facility swap that is subject to the mandatory clearing requirement described in section 2(h)(1) of the Act and 17 CFR chapter I, in which neither party is a swap dealer or major swap participant, shall receive a time delay as follows:
(i)-(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) The time delay for public dissemination of swap transaction and
pricing data for all swaps described in this paragraph (e)(3) shall be one hour immediately after execution of such swap.
(f)
Time delay for large notional off-facility swaps in the interest rate, credit, foreign exchange or equity asset classes not subject to the mandatory clearing requirement with at least one swap dealer or major swap participant counterparty.
Any large notional off-facility swap in the interest rate, credit, foreign exchange or equity asset classes where at least one party is a swap dealer or major swap participant, that is not subject to the mandatory clearing requirement or is excepted from such mandatory clearing requirement, shall receive a time delay in the public dissemination of swap transaction and pricing data as follows:
(1)-(2) [Reserved]
(3) The time delay for public dissemination of swap transaction and pricing data for all swaps described in this paragraph (f) shall be 30 minutes immediately after execution of such swap.
(g)
Time delay for large notional off-facility swaps in the other commodity asset class not subject to the mandatory clearing requirement with at least one swap dealer or major swap participant counterparty.
Any large notional off-facility swap in the other commodity asset class where at least one party is a swap dealer or major swap participant, that is not subject to the mandatory clearing requirement or is exempt from such mandatory clearing requirement, shall receive a time delay in the public dissemination of swap transaction and pricing data as follows:
(1)-(2) [Reserved]
(3) The time delay for public dissemination of swap transaction and pricing data for all swaps described in this paragraph (g) shall be two hours after the execution of such swap.
(h)
Time delay for large notional off-facility swaps in all asset classes not subject to the mandatory clearing requirement in which neither counterparty is a swap dealer or a major swap participant.
Any large notional off-facility swap in which neither party is a swap dealer or a major swap participant, which is not subject to the mandatory clearing requirement or is exempt from such mandatory clearing requirement, shall receive a time delay in the public dissemination of swap transaction and pricing data as follows:
(1)-(2) [Reserved]
(3) The time delay for public dissemination transaction and pricing data for all swaps described in this paragraph (h) shall be 24 business hours immediately after the execution of such swap.
[85 FR 75481, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 43.6
Block trades and large notional off-facility swaps.
(a)
Commission determination.
The Commission shall establish the appropriate minimum block size for publicly reportable swap transactions based on the swap categories set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, as applicable, in accordance with the provisions set forth in paragraph (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), or (i) of this section, as applicable.
(b)
Initial swap categories.
Swap categories shall be established for all swaps, by asset class, in the following manner:
(1)
Interest rates asset class.
Interest rate asset class swap categories shall be based on unique combinations of the following:
(i) Currency by:
(A) Super-major currency;
(B) Major currency; or
(C) Non-major currency; and
(ii) Tenor of swap as follows:
(A) Zero to 46 days;
(B) Greater than 46 days to three months (47 to 107 days);
(C) Greater than three months to six months (108 to 198 days);
(D) Greater than six months to one year (199 to 381 days);
(E) Greater than one to two years (382 to 746 days);
(F) Greater than two to five years (747 to 1,842 days);
(G) Greater than five to ten years (1,843 to 3,668 days);
(H) Greater than ten to 30 years (3,669 to 10,973 days); or
(I) Greater than 30 years (10,974 days and above).
(2)
Credit asset class.
Credit asset class swap categories shall be based on unique combinations of the following:
(i) Traded Spread rounded to the nearest basis point (0.01) as follows:
(A) 0 to 175 points;
(B) 176 to 350 points; or
(C) 351 points and above;
(ii) Tenor of swap as follows:
(A) Zero to two years (0-746 days);
(B) Greater than two to four years (747-1,476 days);
(C) Greater than four to six years (1,477-2,207 days);
(D) Greater than six to eight-and-a-half years (2,208-3,120 days);
(E) Greater than eight-and-a-half to 12.5 years (3,121-4,581 days); and
(F) Greater than 12.5 years (4,582 days and above).
(3)
Equity asset class.
There shall be one swap category consisting of all swaps in the equity asset class.
(4)
Foreign exchange asset class.
Swap categories in the foreign exchange asset class shall be grouped as follows:
(i) By the unique currency combinations of one super-major currency paired with one of the following:
(A) Another super major currency;
(B) A major currency; or
(C) A currency of Brazil, China, Czech Republic, Hungary, Israel, Mexico, Poland, Russia, and Turkey; or
(ii) By unique currency combinations not included in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
(5)
Other commodity asset class.
Swap contracts in the other commodity asset class shall be grouped into swap categories as follows:
(i) For swaps that are economically related to contracts in appendix B of this part, by the relevant contract as referenced in appendix B of this part; or
(ii) For swaps that are not economically related to contracts in appendix B of this part, by the following futures-related swaps:
(A) CME Cheese;
(B) CBOT Distillers' Dried Grain;
(C) CBOT Dow Jones-UBS Commodity Index;
(D) CBOT Ethanol;
(E) CME Frost Index;
(F) CME Goldman Sachs Commodity Index (GSCI), (GSCI Excess Return Index);
(G) NYMEX Gulf Coast Sour Crude Oil;
(H) CME Hurricane Index;
(I) CME Rainfall Index;
(J) CME Snowfall Index;
(K) CME Temperature Index;
(L) CME U.S. Dollar Cash Settled Crude Palm Oil; or
(iii) For swaps that are not covered in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (b)(5)(ii) of this section, the relevant product type as referenced in appendix D of this part.
(c)
Post-initial swap categories.
Swap categories shall be established for all swaps, by asset class, in the following manner:
(1)
Interest rate asset class.
Swaps in the interest rate asset class shall be grouped into swap categories as follows:
(i) Based on a unique combination of the following currencies and tenors:
(A) A currency of one of the following countries or union:
(
1
) Australia;
(
2
) Brazil;
(
3
) Canada;
(
4
) Chile;
(
5
) Czech Republic;
(
6
) The European Union;
(
7
) Great Britain;
(
8
) India;
(
9
) Japan;
(
10
) Mexico;
(
11
) New Zealand;
(
12
) South Africa;
(
13
) South Korea;
(
14
) Sweden; or
(
15
) The United States; and
(B) One of the following tenors:
(
1
) Zero to 46 days;
(
2
) Greater than 46 and less than or equal to 107 days;
(
3
) Greater than 107 and less than or equal to 198 days;
(
4
) Greater than 198 and less than or equal to 381 days;
(
5
) Greater than 381 and less than or equal to 746 days;
(
6
) Greater than 746 and less than or equal to 1,842 days;
(
7
) Greater than 1,842 and less than or equal to 3,668 days;
(
8
) Greater than 3,668 and less than or equal to 10,973 days; or
(
9
) Greater than 10,973 days.
(ii) Other interest rate swaps not covered in the paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.
(2)
Credit asset class.
Swaps in the credit asset class shall be grouped into swap categories as follows.
(i) Based on the CDXHY product type, without options and a tenor
greater than 1,477 days and less than or equal to 2,207 days;
(ii) Based on the CDXHY product type, with only options and a tenor greater than 1,477 days and less than or equal to 2,207 days;
(iii) Based on the iTraxx Europe product type, without options and a tenor greater than 1,477 days and less than or equal to 2,207 days;
(iv) Based on the iTraxx Europe product type, with only options and a tenor greater than 1,477 days and less than or equal to 2,207 days;
(v) Based on the iTraxx Crossover product type, without options and a tenor greater than 1,477 days and less than or equal to 2,207 days;
(vi) Based on the iTraxx Crossover product type, with only options and a tenor greater than 1,477 days and less than or equal to 2,207 days;
(vii) Based on the iTraxx Senior Financials product type, without options and a tenor greater than 1,477 days and less than or equal to 2,207 days;
(viii) Based on the iTraxx Senior Financials product type, with only options and a tenor greater than 1,477 days and less than or equal to 2,207 days;
(ix) Based on the CDXIG product type and a tenor greater, without options than 1,477 days and less than or equal to 2,207 days;
(x) Based on the CDXIG product type with only options and a tenor greater, than 1,477 days and less than or equal to 2,207 days;
(xi) Based on the CDXEmergingMarkets product type and a tenor greater than 1,477 days and less than or equal to 2,207 days;
(xii) Based on the CMBX product type; and
(xiii) Other credit swaps not covered in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)-(xii) of this section.
(3)
Equity asset class.
There shall be one swap category consisting of all swaps in the equity asset class.
(4)
Foreign exchange asset class.
Swaps in the foreign exchange asset class shall be grouped into swap categories as follows:
(i) By the unique currency combinations of the United States currency paired with a currency of one of the following countries or union: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, the European Union, Great Britain, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Philippines, Russia, South Korea, or Taiwan.
(ii) By the unique currency pair consisting of two separate currencies from the following countries or union: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, the European Union, Great Britain, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Philippines, Russia, South Korea, and Taiwan.
(iii) Other swap categories in the foreign exchange asset class not covered in paragraph (c)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(5)
Other commodity asset class.
Swaps in the other commodity asset class shall be grouped into swap categories as follows:
(i) For swaps that have a physical commodity underlier listed in appendix D of this part, by the relevant physical commodity underlier; or
(ii) Other commodity swaps that are not covered in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section.
(d)
Methodologies to determine appropriate minimum block sizes and cap sizes.
In determining appropriate minimum block sizes and cap sizes for publicly reportable swap transactions, the Commission shall utilize the following statistical calculations—
(1)
67-percent notional amount calculation.
The Commission shall use the following procedure in determining the 67-percent notional amount calculation:
(i) For each relevant swap category, select all reliable SDR data for at least a one-year period;
(ii) Convert the notional amount to the same currency or units and use a trimmed data set;
(iii) Determine the sum of the notional amounts of swaps in the trimmed data set;
(iv) Multiply the sum of the notional amount by 67 percent;
(v) Rank order the observations by notional amount from least to greatest;
(vi) Calculate the cumulative sum of the observations until the cumulative sum is equal to or greater than the 67-
percent notional amount calculated in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section;
(vii) Select the notional amount associated with that observation;
(viii) Round the notional amount of that observation up to two significant digits, or if the notional amount associated with that observation is already significant to only two digits, increase that notional amount to the next highest rounding point of two significant digits; and
(ix) Set the appropriate minimum block size at the amount calculated in paragraph (d)(1)(viii) of this section.
(2)
75-percent notional amount calculation.
The Commission shall use the procedure set out in paragraph (d)(1) of this section with 75-percent in place of 67-percent.
(3)
50-percent notional amount calculation.
The Commission shall use the procedure set out in paragraph (d)(1) of this section with 50-percent in place of 67-percent.
(e)
No appropriate minimum block sizes for swaps in the equity asset class.
Publicly reportable swap transactions in the equity asset class shall not be treated as block trades or large notional off-facility swaps.
(f)
Initial appropriate minimum block sizes.
Prior to the Commission making a determination as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the following initial appropriate minimum block sizes shall apply:
(1)
Prescribed appropriate minimum block sizes.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, for any publicly reportable swap transaction that falls within the swap categories described in paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(4)(i), (b)(5)(i), or (b)(5)(ii) of this section, the initial appropriate minimum block size for such publicly reportable swap transaction shall be the appropriate minimum block size that is in appendix F of this part.
(2)
Certain swaps in the foreign exchange and other commodity asset classes.
All swaps or instruments in the swap categories described in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii) and (b)(5)(iii) of this section shall be eligible to be treated as a block trade or large notional off-facility swap, as applicable.
(3)
Exception.
Publicly reportable swap transactions described in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section that are economically related to a futures contract in appendix B of this part shall not qualify to be treated as block trades or large notional off-facility swaps (as applicable), if such futures contract is not subject to a designated contract market's block trading rules.
(g)
Post-initial process to determine appropriate minimum block sizes
—(1)
Post-initial period.
The Commission shall establish, by swap categories, the appropriate minimum block sizes as described in paragraphs (g)(2) through (6) of this section. No less than once each calendar year thereafter, the Commission shall update the post-initial appropriate minimum block sizes.
(2)
Post-initial appropriate minimum block sizes for certain swaps.
The Commission shall determine post-initial appropriate minimum block sizes for the swap categories described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(2)(i) through (xii), (c)(4)(i), and (c)(5)(i) of this section by utilizing a one-year window of swap transaction and pricing data corresponding to each relevant swap category reviewed no less than once each calendar year, and by applying the 67-percent notional amount calculation to such data. If the Commission is unable to determine an appropriate minimum block size for any swap category described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, the Commission shall assign a block size of zero to such swap category.
(3)
Certain swaps in the foreign exchange asset class.
The parties to a swap in the foreign exchange asset class described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section may elect to receive block treatment if the notional amount of either currency in the exchange is greater than the minimum block size for a swap in the foreign exchange asset class between the respective currency, in the same amount, and U.S. dollars described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section.
(4) All swaps or instruments in the swap category described in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii), (c)(2)(xiii), (c)(4)(iii), and (c)(5)(ii) of this section shall have a block size of zero and be eligible to be treated as a block trade or large notional off-facility swap, as applicable.
(5)
Commission publication of post-initial appropriate minimum block sizes.
The Commission shall publish the appropriate minimum block sizes determined pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section on its website at
http://www.cftc.gov.
(6)
Effective date of post-initial appropriate minimum block sizes.
Unless otherwise indicated on the Commission's website, the post-initial appropriate minimum block sizes described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be effective on the first day of the second month following the date of publication.
(h)
Required notification
—(1)
Block trades entered into on a trading system or platform, that is not an order book as defined in § 37.3(a)(3) of a swap execution facility, or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.
(i) If the parties make such an election, the reporting counterparty shall notify the swap execution facility or designated contract market, as applicable, of the parties' election. The parties to a publicly reportable swap transaction may elect to have a publicly reportable swap transaction treated as a block trade if such swap:
(A) Is executed on the trading system or platform, that is not an order book as defined in § 37.3(a)(3) of this chapter of a swap execution facility, or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market; and
(B) That has a notional amount at or above the appropriate minimum block size.
(ii) The swap execution facility or designated contract market, as applicable, shall notify the swap data repository of such a block trade election when reporting the swap transaction and pricing data to such swap data repository in accordance with this part.
(iii) The swap execution facility or designated contract market, as applicable, shall not disclose swap transaction and pricing data relating to a block trade subject to the block trade election prior to the expiration of the applicable delay set forth in § 43.5(d).
(2)
Large notional off-facility swap election.
The parties to a publicly reportable swap transaction that is an off-facility swap and that has a notional amount at or above the appropriate minimum block size may elect to have the publicly reportable swap transaction treated as a large notional off-facility swap. If the parties make such an election, the reporting counterparty for such publicly reportable swap transaction shall notify the applicable swap data repository of the reporting counterparty's election when reporting the swap transaction and pricing data in accordance with this part.
(i)
Special provisions relating to appropriate minimum block sizes and cap sizes.
The following special rules shall apply to the determination of appropriate minimum block sizes and cap sizes—
(1)
Swaps with optionality.
The notional amount of a swap with optionality shall equal the notional amount of the component of the swap that does not include the option component.
(2)
Swaps with composite reference prices.
The parties to a swap transaction with composite reference prices may elect to apply the lowest appropriate minimum block size or cap size applicable to one component reference price's swap category of such publicly reportable swap transaction.
(3)
Notional amounts for physical commodity swaps.
Unless otherwise specified in this part, the notional amount for a physical commodity swap shall be based on the notional unit measure utilized in the related futures contract or the predominant notional unit measure used to determine notional quantities in the cash market for the relevant, underlying physical commodity.
(4)
Currency conversion.
Unless otherwise specified in this part, when the appropriate minimum block size or cap size for a publicly reportable swap transaction is denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars, parties to a swap and registered entities may use a currency exchange rate that is widely published within the preceding two business days from the date of execution of the swap transaction in order to determine such qualification.
(5)
Successor currencies.
For currencies that succeed a super-major currency, the appropriate currency classification for such currency shall be based on the corresponding nominal
gross domestic product classification (in U.S. dollars) as determined in the most recent World Bank, World Development Indicator at the time of succession. If the gross domestic product of the country or nation utilizing the successor currency is:
(i) Greater than $2 trillion, then the successor currency shall be included among the super-major currencies;
(ii) Greater than $500 billion but less than $2 trillion, then the successor currency shall be included among the major currencies; or
(iii) Less than $500 billion, then the successor currency shall be included among the non-major currencies.
(6)
Aggregation.
The aggregation of orders for different accounts in order to satisfy the minimum block trade size or the cap size requirement is permitted for publicly reportable swap transactions only if each of the following conditions is satisfied:
(i) The aggregation of orders is done by a person who:
(A) Is a commodity trading advisor registered pursuant to section 4n of the Act, or exempt from such registration under the Act, or a principal thereof, and who has discretionary trading authority or directs client accounts;
(B) Is an investment adviser who has discretionary trading authority or directs client accounts and satisfies the criteria of § 4.7(a)(6)(i)(G) of this chapter; or
(C) Is a foreign person who performs a similar role or function as the persons described in paragraph (i)(6)(i)(A) or (B) of this section and is subject as such to foreign regulation;
(ii) The aggregated transaction is reported pursuant to this part and part 45 of this chapter as a block trade or large notional off-facility swap, as applicable, subject to the cap size thresholds;
(iii) The aggregated orders are executed as one swap transaction; and
(iv) Aggregation occurs on a designated contract market or swap execution facility if the swap is listed for trading by a designated contract market or swap execution facility.
(j)
Eligible block trade parties.
(1) Parties to a block trade shall be “eligible contract participants,” as defined in section 1a(18) of the Act and 17 CFR chapter I. However, a designated contract market may allow:
(i) A commodity trading advisor registered pursuant to section 4n of the Act, or exempt from registration under the Act, or a principal thereof, and who has discretionary trading authority or directs client accounts,
(ii) An investment adviser who has discretionary trading authority or directs client accounts and satisfies the criteria of § 4.7(a)(6)(i)(G) of this chapter, or
(iii) A foreign person who performs a similar role or function as the persons described in paragraph (j)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section and is subject as such to foreign regulation, to transact block trades for customers who are not eligible contract participants.
(2) A person transacting a block trade on behalf of a customer shall receive prior written instruction or consent from the customer to do so. Such instruction or consent may be provided in the power of attorney or similar document by which the customer provides the person with discretionary trading authority or the authority to direct the trading in its account.
[85 FR 75482, Nov. 25, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 78814, Sept. 26, 2024]
§ 43.7
Delegation of authority.
(a)
Authority.
The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Data or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate, the authority:
(1) To publish the technical specification providing the form and manner for reporting and publicly disseminating the swap transaction and pricing data elements in appendix A of this part as described in §§ 43.3(d)(1) and 43.4(a);
(2) To determine cap sizes as described in § 43.4(g) and (h);
(3) To determine whether swaps fall within specific swap categories as described in § 43.6(b) and (c); and
(4) To determine and publish post-initial appropriate minimum block sizes as described in § 43.6(g).
(b)
Submission for Commission consideration.
The Director of the Division of Data may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that
has been delegated pursuant to this section.
(c)
Commission reserves authority.
Nothing in this section prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
[78 FR 32940, May 31, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 75485, Nov. 25, 2020; 89 FR 71812, Sept. 4, 2024]
Pt. 43, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 43—Swap Transaction and Pricing Data Elements
ER25NO20.000
ER25NO20.001
ER25NO20.002
ER25NO20.003
ER25NO20.004
ER25NO20.005
ER25NO20.006
ER25NO20.007
ER25NO20.008
ER25NO20.009
ER25NO20.010
[85 FR 75485, Nov. 25, 2020]
Pt. 43, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 43—Enumerated Physical Commodity Contracts and Other Contracts

# Enumerated Physical Commodity Contracts

# Agriculture
ICE Futures U.S. Cocoa
ICE Futures U.S. Coffee C
Chicago Board of Trade Corn
ICE Futures U.S. Cotton No. 2
ICE Futures U.S. FCOJ-A
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Live Cattle
Chicago Board of Trade Oats
Chicago Board of Trade Rough Rice
Chicago Board of Trade Soybeans
Chicago Board of Trade Soybean Meal
Chicago Board of Trade Soybean Oil
ICE Futures U.S. Sugar No. 11
ICE Futures U.S. Sugar No. 16
Chicago Board of Trade Wheat
Minneapolis Grain Exchange Hard Red Spring Wheat
Kansas City Board of Trade Hard Winter Wheat
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Class III Milk
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Feeder Cattle
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Lean Hogs

# Metals
Commodity Exchange, Inc. Copper
New York Mercantile Exchange Palladium
New York Mercantile Exchange Platinum
Commodity Exchange, Inc. Gold
Commodity Exchange, Inc. Silver

# Energy
New York Mercantile Exchange Light Sweet Crude Oil
New York Mercantile Exchange New York Harbor Gasoline Blendstock
New York Mercantile Exchange Henry Hub Natural Gas
New York Mercantile Exchange New York Harbor Heating Oil
ICE Futures SP-15 Day-Ahead Peak Fixed Price
ICE Futures SP-15 Day-Ahead Off-Peak Fixed Price
ICE Futures PJM Western Hub Real Time Peak Fixed Price
ICE Futures PJM Western Hub Real Time Off-Peak Fixed Price
ICE Futures Mid-Columbia Day-Ahead Peak Fixed Price
ICE Futures Mid-Columbia Day-Ahead Off-Peak Fixed Price
Chicago Basis
HSC Basis
Socal Border Basis
Waha Basis
ICE Futures AB NIT Basis
NWP Rockies Basis
PG
E Citygate Basis

# Other Contracts
Brent Crude Oil (ICE)
[76 FR 1243, Jan. 9, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 32940, May 31, 2013]
Pt. 43, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 43—Time Delays for Public Dissemination
The tables below provide clarification of the time delays for public dissemination set forth in § 43.5. The first row of each table describes the asset classes to which each chart applies. The column entitled “Time Delay for Public Dissemination” indicates the precise length of time delay, starting upon execution, for the public dissemination of such swap transaction and pricing data by a swap data repository.

# Table C1. Block Trades Executed on or Pursuant to the Rules of a Swap Execution Facility or Designated Contract Market (Illustrating § 43.5(d))
All Asset Classes
Time delay for public dissemination
15 minutes.

# Table C2. Large Notional Off-Facility Swaps Subject to the Mandatory Clearing Requirement With at Least One Swap Dealer or Major Swap Participant Counterparty (Illustrating § 43.5(e)(2))
Table C2 excludes off-facility swaps that are excepted from the mandatory clearing requirement pursuant to Section 2(h)(7) of the Act and Commission regulations and those off-facility swaps that are required to be cleared under Section 2(h)(2) of the Act and Commission regulations but are not cleared.
All Asset Classes
Time delay for public dissemination
15 minutes.

# Table C3. Large Notional Off-Facility Swaps Subject to the Mandatory Clearing Requirement in Which Neither Counterparty Is a Swap Dealer or Major Swap Participant (Illustrating § 43.5(e)(3))
Table C3 excludes off-facility swaps that are excepted from the mandatory clearing requirement pursuant to Section 2(h)(7) of the Act and Commission regulations and those swaps that are required to be cleared under Section 2(h)(2) of the Act and Commission regulations but are not cleared.
All Asset Classes
Time delay for public dissemination
1 hour.

# Table C4. Large Notional Off-Facility Swaps Not Subject to the Mandatory Clearing Requirement With at Least One Swap Dealer or Major Swap Participant Counterparty (Illustrating § 43.5(f))
Table C4 includes large notional off-facility swaps that are not subject to the mandatory clearing requirement or are exempt from such mandatory clearing requirement pursuant to Section 2(h)(7) of the Act and Commission regulations.
Interest Rates, Credit, Foreign Exchange, Equity Asset Classes
Time delay for public dissemination
30 minutes.

# Table C5. Large Notional Off-Facility Swaps Not Subject to the Mandatory Clearing Requirement With at Least One Swap Dealer or Major Swap Participant Counterparty (Illustrating § 43.5(g))
Table C5 includes large notional off-facility swaps that are not subject to the mandatory clearing requirement or are excepted from such mandatory clearing requirement pursuant to Section 2(h)(7) of the Act and Commission regulations.
Other Commodity Asset Class
Time delay for public dissemination
2 hours.

# Table C6. Large Notional Off-Facility Swaps Not Subject to the Mandatory Clearing Requirement in Which Neither Counterparty Is a Swap Dealer or Major Swap Participant (Illustrating § 43.5(h))
Table C6 includes large notional off-facility swaps that are not subject to the mandatory clearing requirement or are exempt from such mandatory clearing requirement pursuant to Section 2(h)(7) of the Act and Commission regulations.
All Asset Classes
Time delay for public dissemination
24 business hours.
[85 FR 75495, Nov. 25, 2020]
Pt. 43, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 43—Other Commodity Swap Categories
Commodity: Metals
Aluminum
Copper
Gold
Lead
Nickel
Silver
Virtual
Zinc
Commodity: Energy
Electricity
Fuel Oil
Gasoline—RBOB
Heating Oil
Natural Gas
Oil
Commodity: Agricultural
Corn
Soybean
Coffee
Wheat
Cocoa
Sugar
Cotton
Soymeal
Soybean oil
Cattle
Hogs
[85 FR 75496, Nov. 25, 2020]
Pt. 43, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 43—Other Commodity Geographic Identification for Public Dissemination Pursuant to § 43.4(
c

# )(4)(
iii

# )
Swap data repositories are required by § 43.4(c)(4)(iii) to publicly disseminate any specific delivery point or pricing point associated with publicly reportable swap transactions in the “other commodity” asset class pursuant to Tables E1 and E2 in this appendix. If the underlying asset of a publicly reportable swap transaction described in § 43.4(c)(4)(iii) has a delivery or pricing point that is located in the United States, such information shall be publicly disseminated pursuant to the regions described in Table E1 in this appendix. If the underlying asset of a publicly reportable swap transaction described in § 43.4(c)(4)(iii) has a delivery or pricing point that is not located in the United States, such information shall be publicly disseminated pursuant to the countries or sub-regions, or if no country or sub-region, by the other commodity region, described in Table E2 in this appendix.

# Table E1. U.S. Delivery or Pricing Points
Other Commodity Group
Region
Natural Gas and Related Products
Midwest
Northeast
Gulf
Southeast
Western
Other—U.S.
Petroleum and Products
New England (PADD 1A)
Central Atlantic (PADD 1B)
Lower Atlantic (PADD 1C)
Midwest (PADD 2)
Gulf Coast (PADD 3)
Rocky Mountains (PADD 4)
West Coast (PADD 5)
Other—U.S.
Electricity and Sources
Florida Reliability Coordinating Council (FRCC)
Midwest Reliability Organization (MRO)
Northeast Power Coordinating Council (NPCC)
Reliability First Corporation (RFC)
SERC Reliability Corporation (SERC)
Southwest Power Pool, RE (SPP)
Texas Regional Entity (TRE)
Western Electricity Coordinating Council (WECC)
Other—U.S.
All Remaining Other Commodities (Publicly disseminate the region. If pricing or delivery point is not region-specific, indicate “U.S.”)
Region 1—(Includes Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont)
Region 2—(Includes New Jersey, New York)
Region 3—(Includes Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia)
Region 4—(Includes Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee)
Region 5—(Includes Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Wisconsin)
Region 6—(Includes Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas)
Region 7—(Includes Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska)
Region 8—(Includes Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Wyoming)
Region 9—(Includes Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada)
Region 10—(Includes Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, Washington)

# Table E2. Non-U.S. Delivery or Pricing Points
Other Commodity Regions
Country or Sub-Region
North America (Other than U.S.)
Canada
Mexico
Central America
South America
Brazil
Other South America
Europe
Western Europe
Northern Europe
Southern Europe
Eastern Europe (excluding Russia)
Russia
Africa
Northern Africa
Western Africa
Eastern Africa
Central Africa
Southern Africa
Asia-Pacific
Northern Asia (excluding Russia)
Central Asia
Eastern Asia
Western Asia
Southeast Asia
Australia/New Zealand/Pacific Islands
[85 FR 75496, Nov. 25, 2020]
Pt. 43, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 43—Initial Appropriate Minimum Block Sizes by Asset Class for Block Trades and Large Notional Off-Facility Swaps
Currency group
Currencies
Super-Major Currencies
United States dollar (USD), European Union Euro Area euro (EUR), United Kingdom pound sterling (GBP), and Japan yen (JPY).
Major Currencies
Australia dollar (AUD), Switzerland franc (CHF), Canada dollar (CAD), Republic of South Africa rand (ZAR), Republic of Korea won (KRW), Kingdom of Sweden krona (SEK), New Zealand dollar (NZD), Kingdom of Norway krone (NOK), and Denmark krone (DKK).
Non-Major Currencies
All other currencies.
Interest Rate Swaps
Currency group
Tenor greater than
Tenor less than or equal to
50% Notional
(in millions)
Super-Major
46 days
6,400
Super-Major
46 days
Three months (107 days)
2,100
Super-Major
Three months (107 days)
Six months (198 days)
1,200
Super-Major
Six months (198 days)
One year (381 days)
1,100
Super-Major
One year (381 days)
Two years (746 days)
460
Super-Major
Two years (746 days)
Five years (1,842 days)
240
Super-Major
Five years (1,842 days)
Ten years (3,668 days)
170
Super-Major
Ten years (3,668 days)
30 years (10,973 days)
120
Super-Major
30 years (10,973 days)
67
Major
46 days
2,200
Major
46 days
Three months (107 days)
580
Major
Three months (107 days)
Six months (198 days)
440
Major
Six months (198 days)
One year (381 days)
220
Major
One year (381 days)
Two years (746 days)
130
Major
Two years (746 days)
Five years (1,842 days)
88
Major
Five years (1,842 days)
Ten years (3,668 days)
49
Major
Ten years (3,668 days)
30 years (10,973 days)
37
Major
30 years (10,973 days)
15
Non-Major
46 days
230
Non-Major
46 days
Three months (107 days)
230
Non-Major
Three months (107 days)
Six months (198 days)
150
Non-Major
Six months (198 days)
One year (381 days)
110
Non-Major
One year (381 days)
Two years (746 days)
54
Non-Major
Two years (746 days)
Five years (1,842 days)
27
Non-Major
Five years (1,842 days)
Ten years (3,668 days)
15
Non-Major
Ten years (3,668 days)
30 years (10,973 days)
16
Non-Major
30 years (10,973 days)
15
Credit Swaps
Spread group
(basis points)
Traded tenor greater than
Traded tenor less than or equal to
50% Notional
(in millions)
Less than or equal to 175
Two years (746 days)
320
Less than or equal to 175
Two years (746 days)
Four years (1,477 days)
200
Less than or equal to 175
Four years (1,477 days)
Six years (2,207 days)
110
Less than or equal to 175
Six years (2,207 days)
Eight years and six months (3,120 days)
110
Less than or equal to 175
Eight years and six months (3,120 days)
Twelve years and six months (4,581 days)
130
Less than or equal to 175
Twelve years and six months (4,581 days)
46
Greater than 175 and less than or equal to 350
Two years (746 days)
140
Greater than 175 and less than or equal to 350
Two years (746 days)
Four years (1,477 days)
82
Greater than 175 and less than or equal to 350
Four years (1,477 days)
Six years (2,207 days)
32
Greater than 175 and less than or equal to 350
Six years (2,207 days)
Eight years and six months (3,120 days)
20
Greater than 175 and less than or equal to 350
Eight years and six months (3,120 days)
Twelve years and six months (4,581 days)
26
Greater than 175 and less than or equal to 350
Twelve years and six months (4,581 days)
63
Greater than 350
Two years (746 days)
66
Greater than 350
Two years (746 days)
Four years (1,477 days)
41
Greater than 350
Four years (1,477 days)
Six years (2,207 days)
26
Greater than 350
Six years (2,207 days)
Eight years and six months (3,120 days)
13
Greater than 350
Eight years and six months (3,120 days
Twelve years and six months (4,581 days)
13
Greater than 350
Twelve years and six months (4,581 days)
41
Foreign Exchange Swaps
Super-major currencies
EUR
(Euro)
GBP
(British pound)
JPY
(Japanese yen)
USD
(U.S. dollar)
Super-major currencies
EUR
6,250,000
6,250,000
18,750,000
GBP
* 6,250,000
6,250,000
6,250,000
JPY
* 6,250,000
* 6,250,000
1,875,000,000
USD
* 18,750,000
* 6,250,000
* 1,875,000,000
Major currencies
AUD
* 6,250,000
0
10,000,000
10,000,000
CAD
* 6,250,000
0
10,000,000
10,000,000
CHF
* 6,250,000
* 6,250,000
12,500,000
12,500,000
DKK
0
0
0
0
KRW
0
0
0
6,250,000,000
SEK
* 6,250,000
0
0
100,000,000
NOK
* 6,250,000
0
0
100,000,000
NZD
0
0
0
5,000,000
ZAR
0
0
0
25,000,000
Non-major currencies
BRL
0
0
0
5,000,000
CZK
200,000,000
0
0
200,000,000
HUF
1,500,000,000
0
0
1,500,000,000
ILS
0
0
0
50,000,000
MXN
0
0
0
50,000,000
PLN
25,000,000
0
0
25,000,000
RMB
50,000,000
0
50,000,000
50,000,000
RUB
0
0
0
125,000,000
TRY
* 6,250,000
0
0
* 10,000,000
All values that do not have an asterisk are denominated in the currency of the left hand side.
All values that have an asterisk (*) are denominated in the currency indicated on the top of the table.
Other Commodity Swaps
Related futures contract
Initial appropriate minimum block size
Units
AB NIT Basis (ICE)
62,500
MMBtu.
Brent Crude (ICE and NYMEX)
25,000
bbl.
Cheese (CME)
400,000
lbs.
Class III Milk (CME)
NO BLOCKS.
Cocoa (ICE and NYSE LIFFE and NYMEX)
1,000
metric tons.
Coffee (ICE and NYMEX)
3,750,000
lbs.
Copper (COMEX)
625,000
lbs.
Corn (CBOT)
NO BLOCKS.
bushels.
Cotton No. 2 (ICE and NYMEX)
5,000,000
lbs.
Distillers' Dried Grain (CBOT)
1,000
short tons.
Dow Jones-UBS Commodity Index (CBOT)
30,000 times index
dollars.
Ethanol (CBOT)
290,000
gallons.
Feeder Cattle (CME)
NO BLOCKS.
Frost Index (CME)
200,000 times index
euros.
Frozen Concentrated Orange Juice (ICE)
NO BLOCKS.
Gold (COMEX and NYSE Liffe)
2,500
troy oz.
Goldman Sachs Commodity Index (GSCI), GSCI Excess Return Index (CME)
5,000 times index
dollars.
Gulf Coast Sour Crude Oil (NYMEX)
5,000
bbl.
Hard Red Spring Wheat (MGEX)
NO BLOCKS.
Hard Winter Wheat (KCBT)
NO BLOCKS.
Henry Hub Natural Gas (NYMEX)
500,000
MMBtu.
HSC Basis (ICE and NYMEX)
62,500
MMBtu.
Hurricane Index (CME)
20,000 times index
dollars.
Chicago Basis (ICE and NYMEX)
62,500
MMBtu.
Lean Hogs (CME)
NO BLOCKS.
Light Sweet Crude Oil (NYMEX)
50,000
bbl.
Live Cattle (CME)
NO BLOCKS.
Mid-Columbia Day-Ahead Off-Peak Fixed Price (ICE)
625
Mwh.
Mid-Columbia Day-Ahead Peak Fixed Price (ICE)
4,000
Mwh.
New York Harbor RBOB (Blendstock) Gasoline (NYMEX)
1,050,000
gallons.
New York Harbor No. 2 Heating Oil (NYMEX)
1,050,000
gallons.
NWP Rockies Basis (ICE and NYMEX)
62,500
MMBtu.
Oats (CBOT)
NO BLOCKS.
Palladium (NYMEX)
1,000
troy oz.
PG
E Citygate Basis (ICE and NYMEX)
62,500
MMBtu.
PJM Western Hub Real Time Off-Peak Fixed Price (ICE)
3,900
Mwh.
PJM Western Hub Real Time Peak Fixed Price (ICE)
8,000
Mwh.
Platinum (NYMEX)
500
troy oz.
Rainfall Index (CME)
10,000 times index
dollars.
Rough Rice (CBOT)
NO BLOCKS.
Silver (COMEX and NYSE Liffe)
125,000
troy oz.
Snowfall Index (CME)
10,000 times index
dollars.
Socal Border Basis (ICE and NYMEX)
62,500
MMBtu.
Soybean (CBOT)
NO BLOCKS.
Soybean Meal (CBOT)
NO BLOCKS.
Soybean Oil (CBOT)
NO BLOCKS.
SP-15 Day-Ahead Peak Fixed Price (ICE)
4,000
Mwh.
SP-15 Day-Ahead Off-Peak Fixed Price (ICE)
625
Mwh.
Sugar #11 (ICE and NYMEX)
5,000
metric tons.
Sugar #16 (ICE)
NO BLOCKS.
Temperature Index (CME)
400 times index
currency units.
U.S. Dollar Cash Settled Crude Palm Oil (CME)
250
metric tons.
Waha Basis (ICE and NYMEX)
62,500
MMBtu.
Wheat (CBOT)
NO BLOCKS.
[78 FR 32942, May 31, 2013; 78 FR 42436, July 16, 2013]
Pt. 44

# PART 44—INTERIM FINAL RULE FOR PRE-ENACTMENT SWAP TRANSACTIONS
Sec.
44.00
Definition of terms used in part 44 of this chapter.
44.01
Effective date.
44.02
Reporting pre-enactment swaps to a swap data repository or the Commission.
44.03
Reporting transition swaps to a swap data repository or to the Commission.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2(h)(5), 4r, and 12a(5), as amended by Title VII of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act of 2010), Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

# Source:
75 FR 63084, Oct. 14, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 44.00
Definition of terms used in part 44 of this chapter.
(a)
Major swap participant
shall have the meaning provided in Section 1a(33) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, and any rules or regulations thereunder.
(b)
Pre-enactment unexpired swap
means any swap entered into prior to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 (July 21, 2010) the terms of which had not expired as of the date of enactment of that Act;
(c) Transition swap means any swap entered into after the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 (July 21, 2010) and prior to the effective date of the swap data reporting and recordkeeping rule implemented under Section 2(h)(5)(B) of the CEA.
(d)
Reporting entity,
when used in this part, means any counterparty referenced or identified in Section 4r(a)(3)(A)-(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended;
(e)
Swap Data Repository
shall have the meaning provided in Section 1a(48) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, and any rules or regulations thereunder;
(f)
Swap Dealer
shall have the meaning provided in Section 1(a)(49) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, and any rules or regulations thereunder;
[75 FR 63084, Oct. 14, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 78896, Dec. 17, 2010]
§ 44.01
Effective date.
The provisions of this part are effective immediately on publication in the
Federal Register.
§ 44.02
Reporting pre-enactment swaps to a swap data repository or the Commission.
(a) A counterparty to a pre-enactment unexpired swap transaction shall:
(1) Report to a registered swap data repository or the Commission by the compliance date established in the reporting rules required under Section 2(h)(5) of the Commodity Exchange Act, or within 60 days after a swap data repository becomes registered with the Commission and commences operations to receive and maintain data related to such swap, whichever occurs first, the following information with respect to the swap transaction:
(i) A copy of the transaction confirmation, in electronic form if available, or in written form if there is no electronic copy; and
(ii) The time, if available, that the transaction was executed; and
(2) Report to the Commission on request, in a form and manner prescribed by the Commission, any information relating to the swap transaction.

# Note to paragraphs (
a

# )(1) and (
a

# )(2):
In order to comply with the reporting requirements contained in paragraph (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, each counterparty to a pre-enactment unexpired swap transaction that may be required to report such transaction should retain, in its existing format, all information and documents, to the extent and in such form as they presently exist, relating to the terms of a swap transaction, including but not limited to any information necessary to identify and value the transaction; the date and time of execution of the transaction; information relevant to the price of the transaction; whether the transaction was accepted for clearing and, if so, the identity of such clearing organization; any modification(s) to the terms of the transaction; and the final confirmation of the transaction.
(b)
Reporting party.
The counterparties to a swap transaction shall report the information required under paragraph (a) of this section as follows:
(1) Where only one counterparty to a swap transaction is a swap dealer or a
major swap participant, the swap dealer or major swap participant shall report the transaction;
(2) Where one counterparty to a swap transaction is a swap dealer and the other counterparty is a major swap participant, the swap dealer shall report the transaction; and
(3) Where neither counterparty to a swap transaction is a swap dealer or a major swap participant, the counterparties to the transaction shall select the counterparty who will report the transaction.
§ 44.03
Reporting transition swaps to a swap data repository or to the Commission.
(a) A counterparty to a post-enactment pre-effective swap transaction shall:
(1) As required by the reporting rules required to be adopted pursuant to Section 2(h)(5)(B) of the Commodity Exchange Act, report data related to a transition swap to a registered swap data repository or the Commission by the compliance date established in such reporting rules or within 60 days after an appropriate swap data repository becomes registered with the Commission and commences operations to receive and maintain data related to such swap, whichever occurs first, the following information with respect to the swap transaction:
(i) A copy of the transaction confirmation, in electronic form if available, or in written form if there is no electronic copy;
(ii) The time, if available, that the transaction was executed; and
(2) Report to the Commission on request, in the form and manner prescribed by the Commission, any information relating to the swap transaction.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ).
In order to comply with the reporting requirements contained in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, each counterparty to a post-enactment pre-effective swap transaction that may be required to report such transaction should retain, in its existing format, all information and documents, to the extent and in such form as they exist on the effective date of this section, relating to: the terms of a swap transaction, including but not limited to any information necessary to identify and value the transaction (e.g., underlying asset and tenor); the date and time of execution of the transaction; volume (e.g., notional or principal amount); information relevant to the price and payment for the transaction until the swap is terminated, reaches maturity or is novated; whether the transaction was accepted for clearing and, if so, the identity of such clearing organization; any modification(s) to the terms of the transaction; and the final confirmation of the transaction.
(b)
Reporting party.
The counterparties to a swap transaction shall report the information required under paragraph (a) of this section as follows:
(1) Where only one counterparty to a swap transaction is a swap dealer or a major swap participant, the swap dealer or major swap participant shall report the transaction;
(2) Where one counterparty to a swap transaction is a swap dealer and the other counterparty is a major swap participant, the swap dealer shall report the transaction; and
(3) Where neither counterparty to a swap transaction is a swap dealer or a major swap participant, the counterparties to the transaction shall select the counterparty who will report the transaction.
[75 FR 78896, Dec. 17, 2010]
Pt. 45

# PART 45—SWAP DATA RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Sec.
45.1
Definitions.
45.2
Swap recordkeeping.
45.3
Swap data reporting: Creation data.
45.4
Swap data reporting: Continuation data.
45.5
Unique transaction identifiers.
45.6
Legal entity identifiers.
48.7
Unique product identifiers.
45.8
Determination of which counterparty shall report.
45.9
Third-party facilitation of data reporting.
45.10
Reporting to a single swap data repository.
45.11
Data reporting for swaps in a swap asset class not accepted by any swap data repository.
45.12
[Reserved]
45.13
Required data standards.
45.14
Correcting errors in swap data and verification of swap data accuracy.
45.15
Delegation of authority.
Appendix 1 to Part 45—Swap Data Elements

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 6r, 7, 7a-1, 7b-3, 12a, and 24a, as amended by Title VII of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
77 FR 2197, Jan. 13, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 45.1
Definitions.
(a) As used in this part:
Allocation
means the process by which an agent, having facilitated a single swap transaction on behalf of several clients, allocates a portion of the executed swap to the clients.
As soon as technologically practicable
means as soon as possible, taking into consideration the prevalence, implementation, and use of technology by comparable market participants.
Asset class
means a broad category of commodities, including, without limitation, any “excluded commodity” as defined in section 1a(19) of the Act, with common characteristics underlying a swap. The asset classes include interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity, other commodity, and such other asset classes as may be determined by the Commission.
Business day
means the twenty-four-hour day, on all days except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, in the location of the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty reporting data for the swap.
Business hours
means consecutive hours during one or more consecutive business days.
Clearing swap
means a swap created pursuant to the rules of a derivatives clearing organization that has a derivatives clearing organization as a counterparty, including any swap that replaces an original swap that was extinguished upon acceptance of such original swap by the derivatives clearing organization for clearing.
Collateral data
means the data elements necessary to report information about the money, securities, or other property posted or received by a swap counterparty to margin, guarantee, or secure a swap, as specified in appendix 1 to this part.
Derivatives clearing organization
means a derivatives clearing organization, as defined by § 1.3 of this chapter, that is registered with the Commission.
Electronic reporting
(“report electronically”) means the reporting of data normalized in data elements as required by the data standard or standards used by the swap data repository to which the data is reported. Except where specifically otherwise provided in this chapter, electronic reporting does not include submission of an image of a document or text file.
Execution
means an agreement by the parties, by any method, to the terms of a swap that legally binds the parties to such swap terms under applicable law.
Execution date
means the date of execution of a particular swap. The execution date for a clearing swap that replaces an original swap is the date on which the original swap has been accepted for clearing.
Financial entity
has the meaning set forth in CEA section 2(h)(7)(C).
Global Legal Entity Identifier System
means the system established and overseen by the Legal Entity Identifier Regulatory Oversight Committee for the unique identification of legal entities and individuals.
Legal entity identifier
or
LEI
means a unique code assigned to swap counterparties and entities in accordance with the standards set by the Global Legal Entity Identifier System.
Legal Entity Identifier Regulatory Oversight Committee
means the group charged with the oversight of the Global Legal Entity Identifier System that was established by the Finance Ministers and the Central Bank Governors of the Group of Twenty nations and the Financial Stability Board, under the Charter of the Regulatory Oversight Committee for the Global Legal Entity Identifier System dated November 5, 2012, or any successor thereof.
Life-cycle event
means any event that would result in a change to required swap creation data previously reported to a swap data repository in connection with a swap. Examples of such events include, without limitation, a counterparty change resulting from an assignment or novation; a partial or full termination of the swap; a change to the end date for the swap; a change in the cash flows or rates originally reported; availability of a legal entity
identifier for a swap counterparty previously identified by some other identifier; or a corporate action affecting a security or securities on which the swap is based (e.g., a merger, dividend, stock split, or bankruptcy).
Life-cycle-event data
means all of the data elements necessary to fully report any life cycle event.
Mixed swap
has the meaning set forth in CEA section 1a(47)(D), and refers to an instrument that is in part a swap subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission, and in part a security-based swap subject to the jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Multi-asset swap
means a swap that does not have one easily identifiable primary underlying notional item, but instead involves multiple underlying notional items within the Commission's jurisdiction that belong to different asset classes.
Non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty
means a swap counterparty that is not a swap dealer, major swap participant, or derivatives clearing organization.
Non-SD/MSP/DCO reporting counterparty
means a reporting counterparty that is not a swap dealer, major swap participant, or derivatives clearing organization.
Novation
means the process by which a party to a swap legally transfers all or part of its rights, liabilities, duties, and obligations under the swap to a new legal party other than the counterparty to the swap under applicable law.
Off-facility swap
means any swap transaction that is not executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.
Open swap
means an executed swap transaction that has not reached maturity or expiration, and has not been fully exercised, closed out, or terminated.
Original swap
means a swap that has been accepted for clearing by a derivatives clearing organization.
Reporting counterparty
means the counterparty required to report swap data pursuant to this part, selected as provided in § 45.8.
Required swap continuation data
means all of the data elements that must be reported during the existence of a swap to ensure that all swap data concerning the swap in the swap data repository remains current and accurate, and includes all changes to the required swap creation data occurring during the existence of the swap. For this purpose, required swap continuation data includes:
(i) All life-cycle-event data for the swap; and
(ii) All swap valuation, margin, and collateral data for the swap.
Required swap creation data
means all data for a swap required to be reported pursuant to § 45.3 for the swap data elements in appendix 1 to this part.
Swap
means any swap, as defined by § 1.3 of this chapter, as well as any foreign exchange forward, as defined by section 1a(24) of the Act, or foreign exchange swap, as defined by section 1a(25) of the Act.
Swap data
means the specific data elements in appendix 1 to this part required to be reported to a swap data repository pursuant to this part or made available to the Commission pursuant to part 49 of this chapter, as applicable.
Swap data validation procedures
means procedures established by a swap data repository pursuant to § 49.10 of this chapter to accept, validate, and process swap data reported to the swap data repository pursuant to part 45 of this chapter.
Swap execution facility
means a trading system or platform that is a swap execution facility as defined in CEA section 1a(50) and in § 1.3 of this chapter and that is registered with the Commission pursuant to CEA section 5h and part 37 of this chapter.
Swap transaction and pricing data
means all data elements for a swap in appendix A to part 43 of this chapter that are required to be reported or publicly disseminated pursuant to part 43 of this chapter.
Unique transaction identifier
means a unique alphanumeric identifier with a maximum length of 52 characters constructed solely from the upper-case alphabetic characters A to Z or the digits 0 to 9, inclusive in both cases, generated for each swap pursuant to § 45.5.
Valuation data
means the data elements necessary to report information about the daily mark of the transaction, pursuant to section
4s(h)(3)(B)(iii) of the Act, and to § 23.431 of this chapter, if applicable, as specified in appendix 1 to this part.
(b)
Other defined terms.
Terms not defined in this part have the meanings assigned to the terms in § 1.3 of this chapter.
[85 FR 75559, Nov. 25, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 75654, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 45.2
Swap recordkeeping.
(a)
Recordkeeping by swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, swap dealers, and major swap participants.
Each swap execution facility, designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, swap dealer, and major swap participant shall keep full, complete, and systematic records, together with all pertinent data and memoranda, of all activities relating to the business of such entity or person with respect to swaps, as prescribed by the Commission. Such records shall include, without limitation, the following:
(1) For swap execution facilities, all records required by part 37 of this chapter.
(2) For designated contract markets, all records required by part 38 of this chapter.
(3) For derivatives clearing organizations, all records required by part 39 of this chapter.
(4) For swap dealers and major swap participants, all records required by part 23 of this chapter, and all records demonstrating that they are entitled, with respect to any swap, to elect the clearing requirement exception pursuant to CEA section 2(h)(7).
(b)
Recordkeeping by non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties.
All non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties shall keep full, complete, and systematic records, together with all pertinent data and memoranda, with respect to each swap in which they are a counterparty, including, without limitation, all records demonstrating that they are entitled, with respect to any swap, to electany clearing requirement exception or exemption pursuant to section 2(h)(7) of the Act or part 50 of this chapter.
(c)
Record retention.
All records required to be kept pursuant to this section shall be retained with respect to each swap throughout the life of the swap and for a period of at least five years following the final termination of the swap.
(d)
Retention form.
Records required to be kept pursuant to this section must be kept as required by paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.
(1) Records required to be kept by swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, swap dealers, or major swap participants may be kept in electronic form, or kept in paper form if originally created and exclusively maintained in paper form, so long as they are retrievable, and information in them is reportable, as required by this section.
(2) Records required to be kept by non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties may be kept in either electronic or paper form, so long as they are retrievable, and information in them is reportable, as required by this section.
(e)
Record retrievability.
Records required to be kept by swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, or swap counterparties pursuant to this section shall be retrievable as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable.
(1) Each record required by this section or any other section of the CEA to be kept by a swap execution facility, designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, swap dealer, or major swap participant shall be readily accessible via real time electronic access by the registrant throughout the life of the swap and for two years following the final termination of the swap, and shall be retrievable by the registrant within three business days through the remainder of the period following final termination of the swap during which it is required to be kept.
(2) Each record required by this section or any other section of the CEA to be kept by a non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty shall be retrievable by that counterparty within five business days throughout the period during which it is required to be kept.
(f)-(g) [Reserved]
(h)
Record inspection.
All records required to be kept pursuant to this section by any registrant or its affiliates or by any non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty shall be open to inspection upon request by any representative of the Commission, the United States Department of Justice, or the Securities and Exchange Commission, or by any representative of a prudential regulator as authorized by the Commission. Copies of all such records shall be provided, at the expense of the entity or person required to keep the record, to any representative of the Commission upon request. Copies of records required to be kept by any registrant shall be provided either by electronic means, in hard copy, or both, as requested by the Commission, with the sole exception that copies of records originally created and exclusively maintained in paper form may be provided in hard copy only. Copies of records required to be kept by any non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty that is not a Commission registrant shall be provided in the form, whether electronic or paper, in which the records are kept.
[77 FR 2197, Jan. 13, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75560, 75654, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 45.3
Swap data reporting: Creation data.
(a)
Swaps executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.
For each swap executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market, the swap execution facility or designated contract market shall report required swap creation data electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) not later than the end of the next business day following the execution date.
(b)
Off-facility swaps.
For each off-facility swap, the reporting counterparty shall report required swap creation data electronically to a swap data repository as provided by paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.
(1) If the reporting counterparty is a swap dealer, major swap participant, or derivatives clearing organization, the reporting counterparty shall report required swap creation data electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) not later than the end of the next business day following the execution date.
(2) If the reporting counterparty is a non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty, the reporting counterparty shall report required swap creation data electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) not later than the end of the second business day following the execution date.
(c)
Allocations.
For swaps involving allocation, required swap creation data shall be reported electronically to a single swap data repository as follows.
(1)
Initial swap between reporting counterparty and agent.
The initial swap transaction between the reporting counterparty and the agent shall be reported as required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable. A unique transaction identifier for the initial swap transaction shall be created as provided in § 45.5.
(2)
Post-allocation swaps
—(i)
Duties of the agent.
In accordance with this section, the agent shall inform the reporting counterparty of the identities of the reporting counterparty's actual counterparties resulting from allocation, as soon as technologically practicable after execution, but no later than eight business hours after execution.
(ii)
Duties of the reporting counterparty.
The reporting counterparty shall report required swap creation data, as required by paragraph (b) of this section, for each swap resulting from allocation to the same swap data repository to which the initial swap transaction is reported. The reporting counterparty shall create a unique transaction identifier for each such swap as required in § 45.5.
(d)
Multi-asset swaps.
For each multi-asset swap, required swap creation data and required swap continuation data shall be reported to a single swap data repository that accepts swaps in the asset class treated as the primary asset class involved in the swap by the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty reporting required swap creation data pursuant to this section.
(e)
Mixed swaps.
(1) For each mixed swap, required swap creation data and required swap continuation data shall be reported to a swap data repository and to a security-based swap data repository registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This requirement may be satisfied by reporting the mixed swap to a swap data repository or security-based swap data repository registered with both Commissions.
(2) The registered entity or reporting counterparty reporting required swap creation data pursuant to this section shall ensure that the same unique transaction identifier is recorded for the swap in both the swap data repository and the security-based swap data repository.
(f)
Choice of swap data repository.
The entity with the obligation to choose the swap data repository to which all required swap creation data for the swap is reported shall be the entity that is required to make the first report of all data pursuant to this section, as follows:
(1) For swaps executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market, the swap execution facility or designated contract market shall choose the swap data repository;
(2) For all other swaps, the reporting counterparty, as determined in § 45.8, shall choose the swap data repository.
[85 FR 75561, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 45.4
Swap data reporting: Continuation data.
(a)
Continuation data reporting method generally.
For each swap, regardless of asset class, reporting counterparties and derivatives clearing organizations required to report required swap continuation data shall report life-cycle-event data for the swap electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) within the applicable deadlines set forth in this section.
(b)
Continuation data reporting for original swaps.
For each original swap, the derivatives clearing organization shall report required swap continuation data, including terminations, electronically to the swap data repository to which the swap that was accepted for clearing was reported pursuant to § 45.3 in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) and in this section, and such required swap continuation data shall be accepted and recorded by such swap data repository as provided in § 49.10 of this chapter.
(1) The derivatives clearing organization that accepted the swap for clearing shall report all life-cycle-event data electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) not later than the end of the next business day following the day that any life cycle event occurs with respect to the swap.
(2) In addition to all other required swap continuation data, life-cycle-event data shall include all of the following:
(i) The legal entity identifier of the swap data repository to which all required swap creation data for each clearing swap was reported by the derivatives clearing organization pursuant to § 45.3(b);
(ii) The unique transaction identifier of the original swap that was replaced by the clearing swaps; and
(iii) The unique transaction identifier of each clearing swap that replaces a particular original swap.
(c)
Continuation data reporting for swaps other than original swaps.
For each swap that is not an original swap, including clearing swaps and swaps not cleared by a derivatives clearing organization, the reporting counterparty shall report all required swap continuation data electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) as provided in this paragraph (c).
(1)
Life-cycle-event data reporting.
(i) If the reporting counterparty is a swap dealer, major swap participant, or derivatives clearing organization, the reporting counterparty shall report life-cycle-event data electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) not later than the end of the next business day following the day that any life cycle event occurred, with the sole exception that life-cycle-event data relating to a corporate event of the non-reporting counterparty shall be reported in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) not later than the end of the second business day
following the day that such corporate event occurred.
(ii) If the reporting counterparty is a non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty, the reporting counterparty shall report life-cycle-event data electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) not later than the end of the second business day following the day that any life cycle event occurred.
(2)
Valuation, margin, and collateral data reporting.
(i) If the reporting counterparty is a swap dealer, major swap participant, or derivatives clearing organization, swap valuation data shall be reported electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(b) each business day.
(ii) If the reporting counterparty is a swap dealer or major swap participant, collateral data shall be reported electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(b) each business day.
[85 FR 75561, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 45.5
Unique transaction identifiers.
Each swap shall be identified in all recordkeeping and all swap data reporting pursuant to this part by the use of a unique transaction identifier, which shall be created, transmitted, and used for each swap as provided in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.
(a)
Swaps executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.
For each swap executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market, the swap execution facility or designated contract market shall create and transmit a unique transaction identifier as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Creation.
The swap execution facility or designated contract market shall generate and assign a unique transaction identifier at, or as soon as technologically practicable following, the time of execution of the swap, and prior to the reporting of required swap creation data. The unique transaction identifier shall consist of a single data element with a maximum length of 52 characters that contains two components:
(i) The legal entity identifier of the swap execution facility or designated contract market; and
(ii) An alphanumeric code generated and assigned to that swap by the automated systems of the swap execution facility or designated contract market, which shall be unique with respect to all such codes generated and assigned by that swap execution facility or designated contract market.
(2)
Transmission.
The swap execution facility or designated contract market shall transmit the unique transaction identifier electronically as follows:
(i) To the swap data repository to which the swap execution facility or designated contract market reports required swap creation data for the swap, as part of that report;
(ii) To each counterparty to the swap, as soon as technologically practicable after execution of the swap;
(iii) To the derivatives clearing organization, if any, to which the swap is submitted for clearing, as part of the required swap creation data transmitted to the derivatives clearing organization for clearing purposes.
(b)
Off-facility swaps with a financial entity reporting counterparty.
For each off-facility swap where the reporting counterparty is a financial entity, the reporting counterparty shall create and transmit a unique transaction identifier as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Creation.
The reporting counterparty shall generate and assign a unique transaction identifier as soon as technologically practicable after execution of the swap and prior to both the reporting of required swap creation data and the transmission of swap data to a derivatives clearing organization if the swap is to be cleared. The unique transaction identifier shall consist of a single data element with a maximum length of 52 characters that contains two components:
(i) The legal entity identifier of the reporting counterparty; and
(ii) An alphanumeric code generated and assigned to that swap by the automated systems of the reporting counterparty, which shall be unique with respect to all such codes generated and assigned by that reporting counterparty.
(2)
Transmission.
The reporting counterparty shall transmit the unique transaction identifier electronically as follows:
(i) To the swap data repository to which the reporting counterparty reports required swap creation data for the swap, as part of that report;
(ii) To the non-reporting counterparty to the swap, no later than the applicable deadline in § 45.3(b) for reporting required swap creation data; and
(iii) To the derivatives clearing organization, if any, to which the swap is submitted for clearing, as part of the required swap creation data transmitted to the derivatives clearing organization for clearing purposes.
(c)
Off-facility swaps with a non-SD/MSP/DCO reporting counterparty that is not a financial entity.
For each off-facility swap for which the reporting counterparty is a non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty that is not a financial entity, the reporting counterparty shall either: Create and transmit a unique transaction identifier as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section; or request that the swap data repository to which required swap creation data will be reported create and transmit a unique transaction identifier as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Creation.
The swap data repository shall generate and assign a unique transaction identifier as soon as technologically practicable following receipt of the request from the reporting counterparty. The unique transaction identifier shall consist of a single data element with a maximum length of 52 characters that contains two components:
(i) The legal entity identifier of the swap data repository; and
(ii) An alphanumeric code generated and assigned to that swap by the automated systems of the swap data repository, which shall be unique with respect to all such codes generated and assigned by that swap data repository.
(2)
Transmission.
The swap data repository shall transmit the unique transaction identifier electronically as follows:
(i) To the counterparties to the swap, as soon as technologically practicable following creation of the unique transaction identifier; and
(ii) To the derivatives clearing organization, if any, to which the swap is submitted for clearing, as soon as technologically practicable following creation of the unique transaction identifier.
(d)
Off-facility swaps with a derivatives clearing organization reporting counterparty.
For each off-facility swap where the reporting counterparty is a derivatives clearing organization, the reporting counterparty shall create and transmit a unique transaction identifier as provided in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Creation.
The derivatives clearing organization shall generate and assign a unique transaction identifier upon, or as soon as technologically practicable after, acceptance of an original swap by the derivatives clearing organization for clearing or execution of a clearing swap that does not replace an original swap, and prior to the reporting of required swap creation data for the clearing swap. The unique transaction identifier shall consist of a single data element with a maximum length of 52 characters that contains two components:
(i) The legal entity identifier of the derivatives clearing organization; and
(ii) An alphanumeric code generated and assigned to that clearing swap by the automated systems of the derivatives clearing organization, which shall be unique with respect to all such codes generated and assigned by that derivatives clearing organization.
(2)
Transmission.
The derivatives clearing organization shall transmit the unique transaction identifier electronically as follows:
(i) To the swap data repository to which the derivatives clearing organization reports required swap creation data for the clearing swap, as part of that report; and
(ii) To its counterparty to the clearing swap, as soon as technologically practicable after acceptance of a swap by the derivatives clearing organization for clearing or execution of a clearing swap that does not replace an original swap.
(e)
Allocations.
For swaps involving allocation, unique transaction identifiers shall be created and transmitted as follows.
(1)
Initial swap between reporting counterparty and agent.
The unique transaction identifier for the initial swap transaction between the reporting counterparty and the agent shall be created as required by paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, as applicable, and shall be transmitted as follows:
(i) If the unique transaction identifier is created by a swap execution facility or designated contract market, the swap execution facility or designated contract market must include the unique transaction identifier in its swap creation data report to the swap data repository, and must transmit the unique identifier to the reporting counterparty and to the agent.
(ii) If the unique transaction identifier is created by the reporting counterparty, the reporting counterparty must include the unique transaction identifier in its swap creation data report to the swap data repository, and must transmit the unique identifier to the agent.
(2)
Post-allocation swaps.
The reporting counterparty must create a unique transaction identifier for each of the individual swaps resulting from allocation, as soon as technologically practicable after it is informed by the agent of the identities of its actual counterparties, and must transmit each such unique transaction identifier to:
(i) The non-reporting counterparty for the swap in question.
(ii) The agent; and
(iii) The derivatives clearing organization, if any, to which the swap is submitted for clearing, as part of the required swap creation data transmitted to the derivatives clearing organization for clearing purposes.
(f)
Use.
Each registered entity and swap counterparty shall include the unique transaction identifier for a swap in all of its records and all of its swap data reporting concerning that swap, from the time it creates or receives the unique transaction identifier as provided in this section, throughout the existence of the swap and for as long as any records are required by the Act or Commission regulations to be kept concerning the swap, regardless of any life cycle events concerning the swap, including, without limitation, any changes with respect to the counterparties to the swap.
(g)
Third-party service provider.
If a registered entity or reporting counterparty required by this part to report required swap creation data or required swap continuation data contracts with a third-party service provider to facilitate reporting pursuant to § 45.9, the registered entity or reporting counterparty shall ensure that such third-party service provider creates and transmits the unique transaction identifier as otherwise required for such category of swap by paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. The unique transaction identifier shall consist of a single data element with a maximum length of 52 characters that contains two components:
(1) The legal entity identifier of the third-party service provider; and
(2) An alphanumeric code generated and assigned to that swap by the automated systems of the third-party service provider, which shall be unique with respect to all such codes generated and assigned by that third-party service provider.
(h)
Cross-jurisdictional swaps.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section, if a swap is also reportable to one or more other jurisdictions with a regulatory reporting deadline earlier than the deadline set forth in § 45.3 or in part 43 of this chapter, the same unique transaction identifier generated according to the rules of the jurisdiction with the earliest regulatory reporting deadline shall be transmitted pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section and used in all recordkeeping and all swap data reporting pursuant to this part.
[81 FR 41775, June 27, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 75562, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 45.6
Legal entity identifiers.
Each swap execution facility, designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, swap data repository, entity reporting pursuant to § 45.9, and counterparty to any swap
that is eligible to receive a legal entity identifier shall obtain, maintain, and be identified in all recordkeeping and all swap data reporting pursuant to this part by a single legal entity identifier as specified in this section.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
Local operating unit
means an entity authorized under the standards of the Global Legal Entity Identifier System to issue legal entity identifiers.
Reference data
means all identification and relationship information, as set forth in the standards of the Global Legal Entity Identifier System, of the legal entity or individual to which a legal entity identifier is assigned.
Self-registration
means submission by a legal entity or individual of its own reference data.
Third-party registration
means submission of reference data for a legal entity or individual that is or may become a swap counterparty, made by an entity or organization other than the legal entity or individual identified by the submitted reference data. Examples of third-party registration include, without limitation, submission by a swap dealer or major swap participant of reference data for its swap counterparties, and submission by a national numbering agency, national registration agency, or data service provider of reference data concerning legal entities or individuals with respect to which the agency or service provider maintains information.
(b)
International standard for the legal entity identifier.
The legal entity identifier used in all recordkeeping and all swap data reporting required by this part shall be issued under, and shall conform to, ISO Standard 17442, Legal Entity Identifier (LEI), issued by the International Organization for Standardization.
(c)
Reference data reporting.
Reference data for each swap execution facility, designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, swap data repository, entity reporting pursuant to § 45.9, and counterparty to any swap shall be reported, by self-registration, third-party registration, or both, to a local operating unit in accordance with the standards set by the Global Legal Entity Identifier System. All subsequent changes and corrections to reference data previously reported shall be reported, by self-registration, third-party registration, or both, to a local operating unit as soon as technologically practicable following occurrence of any such change or discovery of the need for a correction.
(d)
Use of the legal entity identifier.
(1) Each swap execution facility, designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, swap data repository, entity reporting pursuant to § 45.9, and swap counterparty shall use legal entity identifiers to identify itself and swap counterparties in all recordkeeping and all swap data reporting pursuant to this part. If a swap counterparty is not eligible to receive a legal entity identifier as determined by the Global Legal Entity Identifier System, such counterparty shall be identified in all recordkeeping and all swap data reporting pursuant to this part with an alternate identifier as prescribed by the Commission pursuant to § 45.13(a) of this chapter.
(2) Each swap dealer, major swap participant, swap execution facility, designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, and swap data repository shall maintain and renew its legal identity identifier in accordance with the standards set by the Global Legal Entity Identifier System.
(3) Each financial entity reporting counterparty executing a swap with a counterparty that is eligible to receive a legal entity identifier, but has not been assigned a legal entity identifier, shall, prior to reporting any required swap creation data for such swap, use best efforts to cause a legal entity identifier to be assigned to the counterparty. If these efforts do not result in a legal entity identifier being assigned to the counterparty prior to the reporting of required swap creation data, the financial entity reporting counterparty shall promptly provide the identity and contact information of the counterparty to the Commission.
(4) For swaps previously reported pursuant to this part using substitute counterparty identifiers assigned by a
swap data repository prior to Commission designation of a legal entity identifier system, each swap data repository shall map the legal entity identifiers for the counterparties to the substitute counterparty identifiers in the record for each such swap.
[85 FR 75563, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 45.7
Unique product identifiers.
Each swap shall be identified in all recordkeeping and all swap data reporting pursuant to this part by means of a unique product identifier and product classification system as specified in this section. Each swap sufficiently standardized to receive a unique product identifier shall be identified by a unique product identifier. Each swap not sufficiently standardized for this purpose shall be identified by its description using the product classification system.
(a)
Requirements for the unique product identifier and product classification system.
The unique product identifier and product classification system shall identify and describe the swap asset class and the sub-type within that asset class to which the swap belongs, and the underlying product for the swap, with sufficient distinctiveness and specificity to enable the Commission and other financial regulators to fulfill their regulatory responsibilities and to assist in real time reporting of swaps as provided in the Act and part 43 of this chapter. The level of distinctiveness and specificity which the unique product identifier will provide shall be determined separately for each swap asset class.
(b)
Designation of the unique product identifier and product classification system.
(1) The Commission shall determine when a unique product identifier and product classification system that is acceptable to the Commission and satisfies the requirements set forth in this section is available for use in compliance with this section.
(2) When the Commission determines that such a unique product identifier and product classification system is available, the Commission shall designate the unique product identifier and product classification system to be used in recordkeeping and swap data reporting pursuant to this part, by means of a Commission order that is published in the
Federal Register
and on the Web site of the Commission, as soon as practicable after such determination is made. The order shall include notice of this designation, the contact information of the issuer of such unique product identifiers, and information concerning the procedure and requirements for obtaining unique product identifiers and using the product classification system.
(c)
Use of the unique product identifier and product classification system by registered entities and swap counterparties.
(1) When a unique product identifier and product classification system has been designated by the Commission pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, each registered entity and swap counterparty shall use the unique product identifier and product classification system in all recordkeeping and swap data reporting pursuant to this part.
(2) Before a unique product identifier and product classification system has been designated by the Commission, each registered entity and swap counterparty shall use the internal product identifier or product description used by the swap data repository to which a swap is reported in all recordkeeping and swap data reporting pursuant to this part.
[77 FR 2197, Jan. 13, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75563, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 45.8
Determination of which counterparty shall report.
The determination of which counterparty is the reporting counterparty for each swap shall be made as provided in this section.
(a) If only one counterparty is a swap dealer, the swap dealer shall be the reporting counterparty.
(b) If neither counterparty is a swap dealer, and only one counterparty is a major swap participant, the major swap participant shall be the reporting counterparty.
(c) If both counterparties are non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties, and only one counterparty is a financial entity as defined in CEA section 2(h)(7)(C), the counterparty that is a financial entity shall be the reporting counterparty.
(d) If both counterparties are swap dealers, or both counterparties are major swap participants, or both counterparties are non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties that are financial entities as defined in CEA section 2(h)(7)(C), or both counterparties are non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties and neither counterparty is a financial entity as defined in CEA section 2(h)(7)(C):
(1) For a swap executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market, the counterparties shall agree which counterparty shall be the reporting counterparty.
(2) For an off-facility swap, the counterparties shall agree as one term of their swap which counterparty shall be the reporting counterparty.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, if both counterparties to a swap are non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties and only one counterparty is a U.S. person, that counterparty shall be the reporting counterparty.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, if neither counterparty to a swap is a U.S. person, but the swap is executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market or otherwise executed in the United States, or is cleared by a derivatives clearing organization:
(1) For such a swap executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market, the counterparties shall agree which counterparty shall be the reporting counterparty.
(2) For an off-facility swap, the counterparties shall agree as one term of their swap which counterparty shall be the reporting counterparty.
(g) If a reporting counterparty selected pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section ceases to be a counterparty to a swap due to an assignment or novation, the reporting counterparty for reporting of required swap continuation data following the assignment or novation shall be selected from the two current counterparties as provided in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) If only one counterparty is a swap dealer, the swap dealer shall be the reporting counterparty and shall fulfill all counterparty reporting obligations.
(2) If neither counterparty is a swap dealer, and only one counterparty is a major swap participant, the major swap participant shall be the reporting counterparty and shall fulfill all counterparty reporting obligations.
(3) If both counterparties are non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties, and only one counterparty is a U.S. person, that counterparty shall be the reporting counterparty and shall fulfill all counterparty reporting obligations.
(4) In all other cases, the counterparty that replaced the previous reporting counterparty by reason of the assignment or novation shall be the reporting counterparty, unless otherwise agreed by the counterparties.
(h) For all swaps executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market, the rules of the swap execution facility or designated contract market must require each swap counterparty to provide sufficient information to the swap execution facility or designated contract market to enable the swap execution facility or designated contract market to report all required swap creation data as provided in this part.
(1) To comply with paragraph (h) of this section, the rules of the swap execution facility or designated contract market must require each market participant placing an order with respect to any swap traded on the swap execution facility or designated contract market to include in the order, without limitation:
(i) The legal entity identifier of the market participant placing the order.
(ii) A yes/no indication of whether the market participant is a swap dealer with respect to the product with respect to which the order is placed.
(iii) A yes/no indication of whether the market participant is a major swap participant with respect to the product with respect to which the order is placed.
(iv) A yes/no indication of whether the market participant is a financial entity as defined in CEA section 2(h)(7)(C).
(v) A yes/no indication of whether the market participant is a U.S. person.
(vi) If applicable, an indication that the market participant will elect an exception to, or an exemption from, the clearing requirement under part 50 of this chapter for any swap resulting from the order.
(vii) If the swap will be allocated:
(A) An indication that the swap will be allocated.
(B) The legal entity identifier of the agent.
(C) An indication of whether the swap is a post-allocation swap.
(D) If the swap is a post-allocation swap, the unique transaction identifier of the initial swap transaction between the reporting counterparty and the agent.
(2) To comply with paragraph (h) of this section, the swap execution facility or designated contract market must use the information obtained pursuant to paragraph (h)(1) of this section to identify the counterparty that is the reporting counterparty pursuant to the CEA and this section.
(i)
Clearing swaps.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section, if the swap is a clearing swap, the derivatives clearing organization that is a counterparty to such swap shall be the reporting counterparty and shall fulfill all reporting counterparty obligations for such swap.
[81 FR 41777, June 27, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 75563, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 45.9
Third-party facilitation of data reporting.
Registered entities and reporting counterparties required by this part to report required swap creation data or required swap continuation data, while remaining fully responsible for reporting as required by this part, may contract with third-party service providers to facilitate reporting.
[77 FR 2197, Jan. 13, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75564, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 45.10
Reporting to a single swap data repository.
All swap transaction and pricing data and swap data for a given swap shall be reported to a single swap data repository, which shall be the swap data repository to which the first report of such data is made, unless the reporting counterparty changes the swap data repository to which such data is reported pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(a)
Swaps executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.
To ensure that all swap transaction and pricing data and swap data for a swap executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market is reported to a single swap data repository:
(1) The swap execution facility or designated contract market shall report all swap transaction and pricing data and required swap creation data for a swap to a single swap data repository. As soon as technologically practicable after execution of the swap, the swap execution facility or designated contract market shall transmit to both counterparties to the swap, and to the derivatives clearing organization, if any, that will clear the swap, the identity of the swap data repository to which such data is reported.
(2) Thereafter, all swap transaction and pricing data, required swap creation data, and required swap continuation data for the swap shall be reported to that same swap data repository, unless the reporting counterparty changes the swap data repository to which such data is reported pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Off-facility swaps that are not clearing swaps.
To ensure that all swap transaction and pricing data and swap data for an off-facility swap that is not a clearing swap is reported to a single swap data repository:
(1) The reporting counterparty shall report all swap transaction and pricing data and required swap creation data to a single swap data repository. As soon as technologically practicable after execution, the reporting counterparty shall transmit to the other counterparty to the swap, and to the derivatives clearing organization, if any, that will clear the swap, the identity of the swap data repository to which such data is reported.
(2) Thereafter, all swap transaction and pricing data, required swap creation data, and required swap continuation data for the swap shall be reported to the same swap data repository, unless the reporting counterparty changes the swap data repository to which such data is reported pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
Clearing swaps.
To ensure that all swap transaction and pricing data and swap data for a given clearing swap, including clearing swaps that replace a particular original swap or that are created upon execution of the same transaction and that do not replace an original swap, is reported to a single swap data repository:
(1) The derivatives clearing organization that is a counterparty to such clearing swap shall report all swap transaction and pricing data and required swap creation data for that clearing swap to a single swap data repository. As soon as technologically practicable after acceptance of an original swap for clearing, or execution of a clearing swap that does not replace an original swap, the derivatives clearing organization shall transmit to the counterparty to each clearing swap the identity of the swap data repository to which such data is reported.
(2) Thereafter, all swap transaction and pricing data, required swap creation data and required swap continuation data for that clearing swap shall be reported by the derivatives clearing organization to the same swap data repository to which swap data has been reported pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the reporting counterparty changes the swap data repository to which such data is reported pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) For clearing swaps that replace a particular original swap, and for equal and opposite clearing swaps that are created upon execution of the same transaction and that do not replace an original swap, the derivatives clearing organization shall report all swap transaction and pricing data, required swap creation data, and required swap continuation data for such clearing swaps to a single swap data repository.
(d)
Change of swap data repository for swap transaction and pricing data and swap data reporting.
A reporting counterparty may change the swap data repository to which swap transaction and pricing data and swap data is reported as set forth in this paragraph.
(1)
Notifications.
At least five business days prior to changing the swap data repository to which the reporting counterparty reports swap transaction and pricing data and swap data for a swap, the reporting counterparty shall provide notice of such change to the other counterparty to the swap, the swap data repository to which swap transaction and pricing data and swap data is currently reported, and the swap data repository to which swap transaction and pricing data and swap data will be reported going forward. Such notification shall include the unique transaction identifier of the swap and the date on which the reporting counterparty will begin reporting such swap transaction and pricing data and swap data to a different swap data repository.
(2)
Procedure.
After providing the notifications required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the reporting counterparty shall follow paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section to complete the change of swap data repository.
(i) The reporting counterparty shall report the change of swap data repository to the swap data repository to which the reporting counterparty is currently reporting swap transaction and pricing data and swap data as a life cycle event for such swap pursuant to § 45.4.
(ii) On the same day that the reporting counterparty reports required swap continuation data as required by paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, the reporting counterparty shall also report the change of swap data repository to the swap data repository to which swap transaction and pricing data and swap data will be reported going forward as a life cycle event for such swap pursuant to § 45.4. The required swap continuation data report shall identify the swap using the same unique transaction identifier used to identify the swap at the previous swap data repository.
(iii) Thereafter, all swap transaction and pricing data, required swap creation data, and required swap continuation data for the swap shall be reported to the same swap data repository, unless the reporting counterparty for the swap makes another change to the swap data repository to which such data is reported pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
[85 FR 75564, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 45.11
Data reporting for swaps in a swap asset class not accepted by any swap data repository.
(a) Should there be a swap asset class for which no swap data repository currently accepts swap data, each swap execution facility, designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, or reporting counterparty required by this part to report any required swap creation data or required swap continuation data with respect to a swap in that asset class must report that same data to the Commission.
(b) Data subject to this section shall be reported at times announced by the Commission and in an electronic file in a format acceptable to the Commission.
[85 FR 75565, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 45.12
[Reserved]
§ 45.13
Required data standards.
(a)
Data reported to swap data repositories.
(1) In reporting required swap creation data and required swap continuation data to a swap data repository, each reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, designated contract market, and derivatives clearing organization shall report the swap data elements in appendix 1 to this part in the form and manner provided in the technical specifications published by the Commission pursuant to § 45.15.
(2) In reporting required swap creation data and required swap continuation data to a swap data repository, each reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, designated contract market, and derivatives clearing organization making such report shall satisfy the swap data validation procedures of the swap data repository.
(3) In reporting swap data to a swap data repository as required by this part, each reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, designated contract market, and derivatives clearing organization shall use the facilities, methods, or data standards provided or required by the swap data repository to which the entity or counterparty reports the data.
(b)
Data validation acceptance message.
(1) For each required swap creation data or required swap continuation data report submitted to a swap data repository, a swap data repository shall notify the reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, or third-party service provider submitting the report whether the report satisfied the swap data validation procedures of the swap data repository. The swap data repository shall provide such notification as soon as technologically practicable after accepting the required swap creation data or required swap continuation data report. A swap data repository may satisfy the requirements of this paragraph by transmitting data validation acceptance messages as required by § 49.10 of this chapter.
(2) If a required swap creation data or required swap continuation data report to a swap data repository does not satisfy the data validation procedures of the swap data repository, the reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, designated contract market, or derivatives clearing organization required to submit the report has not yet satisfied its obligation to report required swap creation or continuation data in the manner provided by paragraph (a) of this section within the timelines set forth in §§ 45.3 and 45.4. The reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, designated contract market, or derivatives clearing organization has not satisfied its obligation until it submits the required swap data report in the manner provided by paragraph (a) of this section, which includes the requirement to satisfy the data validation procedures of the swap data repository, within the applicable time deadline set forth in §§ 45.3 and 45.4.
[85 FR 75565, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 45.14
Correcting errors in swap data and verification of swap data accuracy.
(a)
Correction of errors
—(1)
Swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, and reporting counterparties.
Any swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty that by any means becomes aware of any error relating to swap data that it was required to report under this part shall correct the error. To correct an error, the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty shall submit complete and accurate swap data to the swap data repository that maintains the swap data for the relevant swap, or completely and accurately report swap data for a swap that was not previously reported to a swap data repository as required under this part, as applicable. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the requirement to correct any error applies regardless of the state of the swap that is the subject of the swap data, including a swap that has terminated, matured, or otherwise is no longer considered to be an open swap.
(i)
Timing requirement for correcting errors.
The swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty shall correct any error as soon as technologically practicable after discovery of the error. In all cases, errors shall be corrected within seven business days after discovery. Any error that a reporting counterparty discovers or could have discovered during the verification process required under paragraph (b) of this section is considered discovered for the purposes of this section as of the moment the reporting counterparty began the verification process during which the error was first discovered or discoverable.
(ii)
Notification of failure to timely correct.
If the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty will, for any reason, fail to timely correct an error, the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty shall notify the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or such other employee or employees of the Commission as the Director may designate from time to time. The notification shall be in the form and manner, and according to the instructions, specified by the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or such other employee or employees of the Commission as the Director may designate from time to time. Unless otherwise instructed by the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or such other employee or employees of the Commission as the Director may designate from time to time, the notification shall include an initial assessment of the scope of the error or errors that were discovered, and shall include any initial remediation plan for correcting the error or errors, if an initial remediation plan exists. This notification shall be made within 12 hours of the swap execution facility's, designated contract market's, or reporting counterparty's determination that it will fail to timely correct the error.
(iii)
Form and manner for error correction.
In order to satisfy the requirements of this section, a swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty shall conform to a swap data repository's policies and procedures created pursuant to § 49.10 of this chapter for correction of errors.
(2)
Non-reporting counterparties.
Any non-reporting counterparty that by any means becomes aware of any error in the swap data for a swap to which it is the non-reporting counterparty, shall notify the reporting counterparty for the swap of the error as soon as technologically practicable after discovery, but not later than three business days following discovery of the error. If the non-reporting counterparty does not know the identity of the reporting counterparty, the non-reporting counterparty shall notify the swap execution facility or designated contract market where the swap was executed of the error as soon as technologically practicable after discovery, but no later than three business days following the discovery. Such notice from the non-reporting counterparty to the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty constitutes discovery under this section.
(3)
Exception.
The requirements to correct errors set forth in paragraph (a) of this section only apply to errors in swap data relating to swaps for which the record retention period under § 45.2 has not expired as of the time the error is discovered. Errors in swap data relating to swaps for which the record retention periods under § 45.2 have expired at the time that the errors are discovered are not subject to the requirements to correct errors set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(b)
Verification that swap data is complete and accurate.
Each reporting counterparty shall verify that there are no errors in the swap data for all open swaps that the reporting counterparty reported, or was required to report, to a swap data repository under the requirements of this part, in accordance with this paragraph (b).
(1)
Method of verification.
Each reporting counterparty shall utilize the mechanism for verification that each swap data repository to which the reporting counterparty reports swap data adopts under § 49.11 of this chapter. Each reporting counterparty shall utilize the relevant mechanism(s) to compare all swap data for each open swap for which it serves as the reporting counterparty maintained by the relevant swap data repository or repositories with all swap data contained in the reporting counterparty's internal books and records for each swap, to verify that there are no errors in the relevant swap data maintained by the swap data repository. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a reporting counterparty is not required to verify the accuracy and completeness of any swap data to which the reporting counterparty is not permitted access under the Act or Commission regulations, including, but not limited to, § 49.17 of this chapter.
(2)
Verification policies and procedures.
In performing verification as required by this paragraph, each reporting counterparty shall conform to each relevant swap data repository's verification policies and procedures created pursuant to § 49.11 of this chapter. If a reporting counterparty utilizes a third-party service provider to perform verification, the reporting counterparty shall conform to each relevant swap data repository's third-party service provider verification policies and procedures created pursuant to § 49.11 of this chapter and shall require the third-party service provider to conform to the same policies and procedures while performing verification on behalf of the reporting counterparty.
(3)
Correcting errors.
Any and all errors discovered during the verification process shall be corrected in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(4)
Frequency.
Each reporting counterparty shall perform verification at a minimum:
(i) If the reporting counterparty is a swap dealer, major swap participant, or derivatives clearing organization, once every thirty calendar days; or
(ii) If the reporting counterparty is not a swap dealer, major swap participant, or a derivatives clearing organization, once every calendar quarter, provided that there are at least two calendar months between verifications.
(5)
Verification log.
Each reporting counterparty shall keep a log of each verification that it performs. For each verification, the log shall include all errors discovered during the verification, and the corrections performed under paragraph (a) of this section. This requirement is in addition to any other applicable reporting counterparty recordkeeping requirement.
(c)
Error defined
—(1)
Errors.
For the purposes of this part, there is an error when swap data is not completely and accurately reported. This includes, but is not limited to, the following circumstances:
(i) Any of the swap data for a swap reported to a swap data repository is incorrect or any of the swap data that is maintained by a swap data repository differs from any of the relevant swap data contained in the books and records of a party to the swap.
(ii) Any of the swap data for a swap that is required to be reported to a swap data repository or to be maintained by a swap data repository is not reported to a swap data repository or is not maintained by the swap data repository as required by this part.
(iii) None of the swap data for a swap that is required to be reported to a
swap data repository or to be maintained by a swap data repository is reported to a swap data repository or is maintained by a swap data repository.
(iv) Any of the swap data for a swap that is no longer an open swap is maintained by the swap data repository as if the swap is still an open swap.
(2)
Presumption.
For the purposes of this section, there is a presumption that an error exists if the swap data that is maintained and disseminated by an SDR for a swap is not complete and accurate. This includes, but is not limited to, the swap data that the SDR makes available to the reporting counterparty for verification under § 49.11 of this chapter.
[85 FR 75654, Nov. 25, 2020]

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 71812, Sept. 4, 2024, § 45.14 was amended by revising paragraph (a)(1)(ii). However, the amendment could not be incorporated due to an error in the amendatory instruction that misidentified the section.
§ 45.15
Delegation of authority.
(a)
Delegation of authority to the chief information officer.
The Commission hereby delegates to its chief information officer, until the Commission orders otherwise, the authority set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, to be exercised by the chief information officer or by such other employee or employees of the Commission as may be designated from time to time by the chief information officer. The chief information officer may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated in this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this paragraph. The authority delegated to the chief information officer by this paragraph (a) shall include:
(1) The authority to determine the manner, format, coding structure, and electronic data transmission standards and procedures acceptable to the Commission for the purposes of § 45.11;
(2) The authority to determine whether the Commission may permit or require use by swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, or reporting counterparties in reporting pursuant to § 45.11 of one or more particular data standards (such as FIX, FpML, ISO 20022, or some other standard), to accommodate the needs of different communities of users;
(3) The dates and times at which required swap creation data or required swap continuation data shall be reported pursuant to § 45.11; and
(4) The chief information officer shall publish from time to time in the
Federal Register
and on the website of the Commission the format, data schema, electronic data transmission methods and procedures, and dates and times for reporting acceptable to the Commission with respect to swap data reporting pursuant to § 45.11.
(b)
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight.
The Commission hereby delegates to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, until the Commission orders otherwise, the authority set forth in § 45.13(a)(1), to be exercised by the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or by such other employee or employees of the Commission as may be designated from time to time by the Director of the Division of Market Oversight. The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated pursuant to this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this paragraph. The authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight by this paragraph (b) shall include:
(1) The authority to publish the technical specifications providing the form and manner for reporting the swap data elements in appendix 1 to this part to swap data repositories as provided in § 45.13(a)(1);
(2) The authority to determine whether the Commission may permit or require use by swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, or reporting counterparties in reporting pursuant to § 45.13(a)(1) of one or more particular data standards (such as FIX, FpML, ISO 20022, or some other standard), to accommodate the needs of different communities of users;
(3) The dates and times at which required swap creation data or required swap continuation data shall be reported pursuant to § 45.13(a)(1); and
(4) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight shall publish from time to time in the
Federal Register
and on the website of the Commission the technical specifications for swap data reporting pursuant to § 45.13(a)(1).
[85 FR 75565, Nov. 25, 2020]

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 71812, Sept. 4, 2024, § 45.15 was amended by revising paragraphs (a) introductory text, (a)(4), (b) introductory text, and (b)(4). However, the amendment could not be incorporated due to an error in the amendatory instruction that misidentified the section.
Pt. 45, App. 1

# Appendix 1 to Part 45—Swap Data Elements
ER25NO20.011
ER25NO20.012
ER25NO20.013
ER25NO20.014
ER25NO20.015
ER25NO20.016
ER25NO20.017
ER25NO20.018
ER25NO20.019
ER25NO20.020
ER25NO20.021
ER25NO20.022
ER25NO20.023
ER25NO20.024
ER25NO20.025
ER25NO20.026
ER25NO20.027
ER25NO20.028
ER25NO20.029
ER25NO20.030
ER25NO20.031
ER25NO20.032
ER25NO20.033
ER25NO20.034
ER25NO20.035
ER25NO20.036
ER25NO20.037
[85 FR 75566, Nov. 25, 2020]
Pt. 46

# PART 46—SWAP DATA RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS: PRE-ENACTMENT AND TRANSITION SWAPS
Sec.
46.1
Definitions.
46.2
Recordkeeping for pre-enactment swaps and transition swaps.
46.3
Data reporting for pre-enactment swaps and transition swaps.
46.4
Unique identifiers.
46.5
Determination of which counterparty must report.
46.6
Third-party facilitation of data reporting.
46.7
Reporting to a single swap data repository.
46.8
Data reporting for swaps in a swap asset class not accepted by any swap data repository.
46.9
Voluntary supplemental reporting
46.10
Required data standards.
46.11
Reporting of errors and omissions in previously reported data.
Appendix 1 to Part 46—Tables of Minimum Primary Economic Terms Data for Pre-Enactment and Transition Swaps

# Authority:
Title VII, sections 723 and 729, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1738.

# Source:
77 FR 35226, June 12, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 46.1
Definitions.
(a) As used in this part:
Asset class
means a broad category of commodities, including, without limitation, any “excluded commodity” as defined in section 1a(19) of the Act, with common characteristics underlying a swap. The asset classes include interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity, other commodity, and such other asset classes as may be determined by the Commission.
Compliance date
means the applicable date, as specified in part 45 of this chapter, on which a registered entity or swap counterparty subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission is required to commence full compliance with all provisions of this part and with all applicable provisions of part 45 of this chapter, as set forth in the preamble to this part.
Confirmation
(
confirming
) means the consummation (electronically or otherwise) of legally binding documentation (electronic or otherwise) that memorializes the agreement of the parties to all terms of a swap. A confirmation must be in writing (whether electronic or otherwise) and must legally supersede any previous agreement (electronically or otherwise).
Confirmation data
means all of the terms of a swap matched and agreed upon by the counterparties in confirming the swap.
Electronic reporting
(“report electronically”) means the reporting of data normalized in data fields as required by the data standard or standards used by the swap data repository to which the data is reported. Except where specifically otherwise provided in this chapter, electronic reporting does not include submission of an image of a document or text file.
Equity swap
means any swap that is primarily based on equity securities, including, without limitation: any swap primarily based on one or more broad-based indices of equity securities; and any total return swap on one or more equity indices.
Financial entity
has the meaning set forth in CEA section 2(h)(7)(C).
Historical swap
means pre-enactment swaps and transition swaps.
Minimum primary economic terms
means, with respect to a historical swap, the terms included in the list of minimum primary economic terms for swaps in each swap asset class found in appendix 1 to this part.
Minimum primary economic terms data
means all of the data elements necessary to fully report all of the minimum primary economic terms required by this part to be reported for a swap in the swap asset class of the swap in question.
Mixed swap
has the meaning set forth in CEA section 1a(47)(D), and refers to an instrument that is in part a swap subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission, and in part a security-based swap subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC.
Multi-asset swap
means a swap that does not have one easily identifiable primary underlying notional item, but instead involves multiple underlying notional items within the Commission's jurisdiction that belong to different asset classes.
Non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty
means a swap counterparty that is not a swap
dealer, major swap participant, or derivatives clearing organization.
Pre-enactment swap
means any swap entered into prior to enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 (July 21, 2010), the terms of which have not expired as of the date of enactment of that Act.
Reporting counterparty
means the counterparty required to report data for a pre-enactment swap or a transition swap pursuant to this part, selected as provided in § 46.5.
Required swap continuation data
means all of the data elements that shall be reported during the existence of a swap as required by part 45 of this chapter.
Substitute counterparty identifier
means a unique alphanumeric code assigned by a swap data repository to a swap counterparty prior to the Commission designation of a legal entity identifier system on July 23, 2012.
Transition swap
means any swap entered into on or after the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 (July 21, 2010) and prior to the applicable compliance date on which a registered entity or swap counterparty subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission is required to commence full compliance with all provisions of this part, as set forth in the preamble to this part.
(b)
Other defined terms.
Terms not defined in this part have the meanings assigned to the terms in § 1.3 of this chapter.
[77 FR 35226, June 12, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75594, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 46.2
Recordkeeping for pre-enactment swaps and transition swaps.
(a)
Recordkeeping for pre-enactment and transition swaps in existence on or after April 25, 2011.
Each counterparty subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission that is a counterparty to any pre-enactment swap or transition swap that is in existence on or after April 25, 2011 shall keep the following records concerning each such swap:
(1)
Minimum records required.
Each counterparty shall keep records of all of the minimum primary economic terms data specified in appendix 1 to this part.
(2)
Additional records required to be kept if possessed by a counterparty.
In addition to the minimum records required pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this part, a counterparty that is in possession at any time on or after April 25, 2011 of any of the following documentation shall keep copies thereof:
(i) Any confirmation of the swap executed by the counterparties.
(ii) Any master agreement governing the swap, and any modification or amendment thereof.
(iii) Any credit support agreement, or other agreement between the counterparties having the same function as a credit support agreement, relating to the swap, and any modification or amendment thereof.
(3)
Records created or available after the compliance date.
In addition to the records required to be kept pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, each counterparty to any pre-enactment swap or transition swap that remains in existence on the compliance date shall keep for each such swap, from the compliance date forward, all of the records required to be kept by section 45.2 of this chapter, to the extent that any such records are created by or become available to the counterparty on or after the compliance date.
(4)
Retention form.
Records required to be kept pursuant to this section with respect to historical swaps in existence on or after April 25, 2011, must be kept as required by paragraph (a)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) Records required to be kept by swap dealers or major swap participants may be kept in electronic form, or kept in paper form if originally created and exclusively maintained in paper form, so long as they are retrievable, and information in them is reportable as required by this part.
(ii) Records required to be kept by non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties may be kept in either electronic or paper form, so long as they are retrievable, and information in them is reportable, as required by this part.
(b)
Recordkeeping for pre-enactment and transition swaps expired or terminated prior to April 25, 2011.
Each counterparty subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission that is a counterparty to any pre-enactment swap or transition swap that is expired
or terminated prior to April 25, 2011 shall keep the following records concerning each such swap:
(1)
Pre-enactment swaps expired prior to April 25, 2011.
Each counterparty to any pre-enactment swap that expired or was terminated prior to April 25, 2011 shall retain the information and documents relating to the terms of the transaction that were possessed by the counterparty on or after October 14, 2010 (17 CFR 44.00 through 44.02). Such information may be retained in the format in which it existed on or after October 14, 2010, or in such other format as the counterparty chooses to retain it. This paragraph (b)(1) does not require the counterparty to create or retain records of information not in its possession on or after October 14, 2010, or to alter the format,
i.e.,
the method by which the information is organized and stored.
(2)
Transition swaps expired prior to April 25, 2011.
Each counterparty to any transition swap that expired or was terminated prior to April 25, 2011 shall retain the information and documents relating to the terms of the transaction that were possessed by the counterparty on or after December 17, 2010 (17 CFR 44.03). Such information may be retained in the format in which it existed on or after December 17, 2010, or in such other format as the counterparty chooses to retain it. This paragraph (b)(2) does not require the counterparty to create or retain records of information not in its possession on or after December 17, 2010, or to alter the format,
i.e.,
the method by which the information is organized and stored.
(c)
Retention period.
All records required to be kept by this section shall be kept from the applicable dates specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section through the life of the swap, and for a period of at least five years from the final termination of the swap.
(d)
Retrieval.
Records required to be kept pursuant to this section shall be retrievable as follows.
(1)
Retrieval for pre-enactment and transition swaps in existence on or after April 25, 2011.
Records concerning pre-enactment and transition swaps in existence on or after April 25, 2011, shall be retrievable as follows:
(i) Each record required to be kept by a counterparty that is a swap dealer or major swap participant shall be readily accessible via real time electronic access by the counterparty throughout the life of the swap and for two years following the final termination of the swap, and shall be retrievable by the registrant or its affiliates within three business days through the remainder of the period following final termination of the swap during which it is required to be kept.
(ii) Each record required to be kept by a non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty shall be retrievable by the counterparty within five business days throughout the period during which it is required to be kept.
(2)
Retrieval for pre-enactment and transition swaps expired or terminated prior to April 25, 2011.
Records concerning pre-enactment and transition swaps expired or terminated prior to April 25, 2011, shall be retrievable by the counterparty within five business days throughout the period during which they are required to be kept.
(e)
Inspection.
All records required to be kept pursuant to this section by any registrant or its affiliates or by any counterparty subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission shall be open to inspection upon request by any representative of the Commission, the United States Department of Justice, or the Securities and Exchange Commission, or by any representative of a prudential regulator as authorized by the Commission. Copies of all such records shall be provided, at the expense of the entity or person required to keep the record, to any representative of the Commission upon request. With respect to historical swaps in existence on or after April 25, 2011, copies of records required to be kept by any swap dealer or major swap participant shall be provided either by electronic means, in hard copy, or both, as requested by the Commission, with the sole exception that copies of records originally created and exclusively maintained in paper form may be provided in hard copy only; and copies of records required to be kept by any non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty shall be provided in the form, whether electronic or paper, in which the records
are kept. With respect to historical swaps expired or terminated prior to April 25, 2011, records shall be provided in the form, whether electronic or paper, in which the records are kept.
[77 FR 35226, June 12, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75594, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 46.3
Data reporting for pre-enactment swaps and transition swaps.
(a)
Reporting for pre-enactment and transition swaps in existence on or after April 25, 2011
—(1)
Initial data report.
For each pre-enactment swap or transition swap in existence on or after April 25, 2011, the reporting counterparty shall report electronically to a swap data repository (or to the Commission if no swap data repository for swaps in the asset class in question is available), on the compliance date, the following:
(i) All of the minimum primary economic terms data specified in appendix 1 to this part that were in the possession of the reporting counterparty on or after April 25, 2011;
(ii) The legal entity identifier of the reporting counterparty required pursuant to § 46.4; and
(iii) The following additional identifiers:
(A) The internal counterparty identifier or legal entity identifier used by the reporting counterparty to identify the non-reporting counterparty.
(B) The internal transaction identifier used by the reporting counterparty to identify the swap.
(2)
Reporting of required swap continuation data.
(i) For each uncleared pre-enactment or transition swap in existence on or after April 25, 2011, throughout the existence of the swap following the compliance date, the reporting counterparty must report all required swap continuation data as required by part 45 of this chapter.
(ii) Swap continuation data reporting is not required for a pre-enactment or transition swap in existence on or after April 25, 2011, that has been cleared by a designated clearing organization.
(3)
Data reporting for multi-asset swaps and mixed swaps.
(i) For each pre-enactment or transition swap in existence on or after April 25, 2011, that is a multi-asset swap, all data required to be reported by this part shall be reported to a single swap data repository that accepts swaps in the asset class treated as the primary asset class involved in the swap by the reporting counterparty making the first report of such data pursuant to this section.
(ii) For each pre-enactment or transition swap in existence on or after April 25, 2011, that is a mixed swap, all data required to be reported pursuant to this part shall be reported to a swap data repository registered with the Commission and to a security-based swap data repository registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This requirement may be satisfied by reporting the mixed swap to a swap data repository or security-based swap data repository registered with both Commissions.
(b)
Reporting for pre-enactment and transition swaps expired or terminated prior to April 25, 2011
—(1)
Pre-enactment swaps expired or terminated prior to April 25, 2011.
For each pre-enactment swap which expired or was terminated prior to April 25, 2011, the reporting counterparty shall report to a swap data repository (or to the Commission if no swap data repository for swaps in the asset class in question is available), on the compliance date, such information relating to the terms of the transaction as was in the reporting counterparty's possession on or after October 14, 2010 (17 CFR 44.00 through 44.02). This information may be reported via any method selected by the reporting counterparty.
(2)
Transition swaps expired or terminated prior to April 25, 2011.
For each transition swap which expired or was terminated prior to April 25, 2011, the reporting counterparty shall report to a swap data repository (or to the Commission if no swap data repository for swaps in the asset class in question is available), on the compliance date, such information relating to the terms of the transaction as was in the reporting counterparty's possession on or after December 17, 2010 (17 CFR 44.03). This information may be reported via any method selected by the reporting counterparty.
(c)
Voluntary early submission of initial data report.
For all pre-enactment and transition swaps required to be reported pursuant to this part, the reporting counterparty may make the
initial data report required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or the data report required by paragraph (b) of this section, prior to the applicable compliance date, if a swap data repository accepting swaps in the asset class in question is prepared to accept the report. The obligation to report continuation data as required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section with respect to a swap for which a voluntary early submission is made commences on the applicable compliance date. However, the reporting counterparty may submit continuation data at any time after a voluntary early submission made pursuant to this paragraph, if the swap data repository is prepared to accept such continuation data, and if that repository has registered with the Commission as a swap data repository as of the applicable compliance date.
(d)
Non-duplication of previous reporting.
If the reporting counterparty for a pre-enactment or transition swap has reported any of the information required as paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section to a trade repository prior to the compliance date, and if as of the compliance date that repository has registered with the Commission as a swap data repository, then:
(1) The counterparty shall not be required to report such previously reported information to the swap data repository again;
(2) The counterparty shall be required to report to the swap data repository on the compliance date any information required as part of the initial data report by paragraph (a) of this section that has not been reported prior to the compliance date: and
(3) In the case of pre-enactment and transition swaps in existence on or after April 25, 2011, the initial data report required by paragraph (a) of this section and all subsequent data reporting concerning the swap shall be made to the same swap data repository to which data concerning the swap was first reported prior to the compliance date (or to its successor in the event that it ceases to operate, as provided in part 49 of this chapter).
[77 FR 35226, June 12, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75594, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 46.4
Unique identifiers.
The unique identifier requirements for data reporting with respect to pre-enactment or transition swaps shall be as follows:
(a) By the compliance date, the reporting counterparty (as defined by part 45 of this chapter) for each pre-enactment or transition swap in existence on or after April 25, 2011, for which an initial data report is required by this part 46, shall obtain for itself a legal entity identifier as provided in § 45.6 of this chapter (or if the Commission has not yet designated a legal entity identifier system, a substitute counterparty identifier), and shall include its own legal entity identifier (or substitute counterparty identifier) in the initial data report concerning the swap. With respect to the legal entity identifier (or substitute counterparty identifier) of the reporting counterparty, the reporting counterparty and the swap data repository to which the swap is reported shall comply thereafter with all unique identifier requirements of § 45.6 of this chapter.
(b) Within 180 days after the compliance date, the non-reporting counterparty for each pre-enactment or transition swap in existence on or after April 25, 2011, for which an initial data report is required by this part 46, shall obtain a legal entity identifier as provided in § 45.6 of this chapter (or if the Commission has not yet designated a legal entity identifier system, a substitute counterparty identifier as provided in § 45.6(f) of this chapter), and shall provide its legal entity identifier (or substitute counterparty identifier) to the reporting counterparty. Upon receipt of the non-reporting counterparty's legal entity identifier (or substitute counterparty identifier), the reporting counterparty shall provide it to the swap data repository to which swap data for the swap was reported. Thereafter, with respect to the legal entity identifier (or substitute counterparty identifier) of the non-reporting counterparty, the counterparties to the swap and the swap data repository to which it is reported shall comply with all requirements of § 45.6 of this chapter.
(c) The legal entity identifier requirements of parts 46 and 45 of this chapter shall not apply to pre-enactment or transition swaps expired or terminated prior to April 25, 2011.
(d) The unique swap identifier, unique transaction identifier, and unique product identifier requirements of part 45 of this chapter shall not apply to pre-enactment or transition swaps.
[77 FR 35226, June 12, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75594, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 46.5
Determination of which counterparty must report.
(a) Determination of which counterparty must report data concerning each pre-enactment or transition swap shall be made as follows:
(1) If only one counterparty is a swap dealer, the swap dealer shall fulfill all counterparty reporting obligations.
(2) If neither party is an swap dealer, and only one counterparty is an major swap participant, the major swap participant shall fulfill all counterparty reporting obligations.
(3) If both counterparties are non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties, and only one counterparty is a financial entity as defined in CEA section 2(h)(7)(C), the counterparty that is a financial entity shall be the reporting counterparty.
(4) For each pre-enactment swap or transition swap for which both counterparties are swap dealers, or both counterparties are major swap participants, or both counterparties are non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties that are financial entities as defined in CEA section 2(h)(7)(C), or both counterparties are non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties and neither counterparty is a financial entity as defined in CEA section 2(h)(7)(C), the counterparties shall agree which counterparty shall fulfill reporting obligations with respect to that swap; and the counterparty so selected shall fulfill all counterparty reporting obligations.
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, for pre-enactment or transition swaps for which both counterparties are non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties, if only one counterparty is a U.S. person, that counterparty shall be the reporting counterparty and shall fulfill all counterparty reporting obligations.
(b) For pre-enactment and transition swaps in existence as of the compliance date, determination of the reporting counterparty shall be made by applying the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section with respect to the current counterparties to the swap as of the compliance date, regardless of whether either or both were original counterparties to the swap when it was first executed.
(c) For pre-enactment and transition swaps for which reporting is required, but which have expired or been terminated prior to the compliance date, determination of the reporting counterparty shall be made by applying the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section to the counterparties to the swap as of the date of its expiration or termination (except for determination of a counterparty's status as an SD or MSP, which shall be made as of the compliance date), regardless of whether either or both were original counterparties to the swap when it was first executed.
(d) After the initial report required by § 46.3 is made, if a reporting counterparty selected pursuant to this section ceases to be a counterparty to a swap due to an assignment or novation, the reporting counterparty for reporting of required swap continuation data following the assignment or novation shall be selected from the two current counterparties as provided in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) If only one counterparty is a swap dealer, the swap dealer shall be the reporting counterparty and shall fulfill all counterparty reporting obligations.
(2) If neither counterparty is a swap dealer, and only one counterparty is a major swap participant, the major swap participant shall be the reporting counterparty and shall fulfill all counterparty reporting obligations.
(3) If both counterparties are non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties, and only one counterparty is a U.S. person, that counterparty shall be the reporting counterparty and shall fulfill all counterparty reporting obligations.
(4) In all other cases, the counterparty that replaced the previous reporting counterparty by reason of the assignment or novation shall be the reporting counterparty, unless otherwise agreed by the counterparties.
[77 FR 35226, June 12, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75594, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 46.6
Third-party facilitation of data reporting.
Counterparties required by this part 46 to report data for any pre-enactment or transition swap, while remaining fully responsible for reporting as required by this part 46, may contract with third-party service providers to facilitate reporting.
[77 FR 35226, June 12, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75594, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 46.7
Reporting to a single swap data repository.
All data reported for each pre-enactment or transition swap pursuant to this part 46, and all corrections of errors and omissions in previously reported data for the swap, shall be reported to the same swap data repository to which the initial data report concerning the swap is made (or to its successor in the event that it ceases to operate, as provided in part 49 of this chapter).
§ 46.8
Data reporting for swaps in a swap asset class not accepted by any swap data repository.
(a) Should there be a swap asset class for which no swap data repository registered with the Commission currently accepts data for pre-enactment and transition swaps, each registered entity or counterparty required by this part to report any such data with respect to a swap in that asset class must report that same data to the Commission.
(b) Data reported to the Commission pursuant to this section shall be reported at times announced by the Commission. Data reported to the Commission pursuant to this section with respect to pre-enactment and transition swaps in existence on or after April 25, 2011 shall be reported in an electronic format acceptable to the Commission.
(c) Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Data: The Commission hereby delegates to its Director of the Division of Data, until the Commission orders otherwise, the authority set forth in this paragraph (c), to be exercised by the Director of the Division of Data or by such other employee or employees of the Commission as may be designated by the Director of the Division of Data. The Director of the Division of Data may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated in this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this paragraph. The authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Data by paragraph (c) of this section shall include:
(1) With respect to all pre-enactment and transition swaps required to be reported by this part, the authority to determine the dates and times at which data concerning such swaps shall be reported pursuant to this part.
(2) With respect to all pre-enactment swaps or transition swaps in existence on or after April 25, 2011:
(i) The authority to determine the manner, format, coding structure, and electronic data transmission standards and procedures acceptable to the Commission for the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section; and
(ii) The authority to determine whether the Commission may permit or require use by registered entities or counterparties in reporting pre-enactment or transition swaps in existence on or after April 25, 2011, of one or more particular data standards (such as FIX, FpML, ISO 20022, or some other standard), in order to accommodate the needs of different communities of users.
(d) The Director of the Division of Data shall publish from time to time in the
Federal Register
and on the Web site of the Commission the dates and times, format, data schema, and electronic data transmission methods and procedures for reporting acceptable to the Commission with respect to reporting data for pre-enactment and transition swaps pursuant to this section.
[77 FR 35226, June 12, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75594, Nov. 25, 2020; 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 46.9
Voluntary supplemental reporting.
(a) For purposes of this section, the term
voluntary, supplemental report
means any report of data for a pre-enactment or transition swap to a swap data repository that is not required to be made pursuant to this part or any other part in this chapter.
(b) A voluntary, supplemental report for a pre-enactment or transition swap may be made only by a counterparty to the swap in connection with which the voluntary, supplemental report is made, or by a third-party service provider acting on behalf of a counterparty to the swap.
(c) A voluntary, supplemental report for a pre-enactment or transition swap may be made only after the initial data report for the swap required by section 46.3(a) or the report required by section 46.3(b), as applicable, has been made.
(d) A voluntary, supplemental report for a pre-enactment or transition swap may be made either to the swap data repository to which the initial data report for the swap required by section 46.3(a) or the report required by section 46.3(b), as applicable, has been made, or to a different swap data repository.
(e) A voluntary, supplemental report for a pre-enactment or transition swap must contain:
(1) An indication that the report is a voluntary, supplemental report.
(2) The swap data repository identifier created for the swap by the automated systems of the swap data repository to which the initial data report required by section 46.3(a) or the report required by section 46.3(b), as applicable, has been made.
(3) An indication of the identity of the swap data repository to which the initial data report required by section 46.3(a) or the report required by section 46.3(b), as applicable, has been made, if the voluntary supplemental report is made to a different swap data repository.
(4) If the pre-enactment or transition swap was in existence on or after April 25, 2011, the legal entity identifier (or substitute identifier) of the counterparty making the voluntary, supplemental report.
(5) If applicable, an indication that the voluntary, supplemental report is made pursuant to the laws or regulations of any jurisdiction outside the United States.
(f) If a counterparty that has made a voluntary, supplemental report discovers any errors in the data for a pre-enactment or a transition swap included in the voluntary, supplemental report, the counterparty must report a correction of each such error to the swap data repository to which the voluntary, supplemental report was made, as soon as technologically practicable after discovery of any such error.
[77 FR 35226, June 12, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75594, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 46.10
Required data standards.
In reporting data for a pre-enactment or a transition swap to a swap data repository as required by this part 46, each reporting counterparty shall use the facilities, methods, or data standards provided or required by the swap data repository to which counterparty reports the data. In reporting required swap continuation data as required by this part, each reporting counterparty shall comply with the required data standards set forth in part 45 of this chapter, including those set forth in § 45.13(a) of this chapter.
[77 FR 35226, June 12, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75594, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 46.11
Reporting of errors and omissions in previously reported data.
(a) Each swap counterparty required by this part 46 to report data for a pre-enactment or a transition swap shall report any errors and omissions in the data so reported. Corrections of errors or omissions shall be reported as soon as technologically practicable after discovery of any such error or omission.
(b) Each counterparty to a pre-enactment or transition swap that is not the reporting counterparty as determined pursuant to § 46.5, and that discovers any error or omission with respect to any data for a pre-enactment or transition swap reported to a swap data repository for that swap, shall promptly notify the reporting counterparty of each such error or omission. As soon as technologically practicable after receiving such notice, the reporting
counterparty shall report a correction of each such error or omission to the swap data repository.
(c) Each swap counterparty reporting corrections to errors or omissions in data previously reported as required by this part shall report such corrections in the same format as it reported the erroneous or omitted data.
[77 FR 35226, June 12, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75595, Nov. 25, 2020]
Pt. 46, App. 1

# Appendix 1 to Part 46—Tables of Minimum Primary Economic Terms Data For Pre-Enactment and Transition Swaps
ER12JN12.009
ER12JN12.010
ER12JN12.011
ER12JN12.012
ER12JN12.013
ER12JN12.014
ER12JN12.015
ER12JN12.016
ER12JN12.017
Pt. 48

# PART 48—REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN BOARDS OF TRADE
Sec.
48.1
Scope.
48.2
Definitions.
48.3
Registration required.
48.4
Registration eligibility and scope.
48.5
Registration procedures.
48.6
[RESERVED]
48.7
Requirements for registration.
48.8
Conditions of registration.
48.9
Revocation of registration.
48.10
Additional contracts.
48.11
Delegation of authority.
Appendix to Part 48—Form FBOT

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 5, 6 and 12a, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
76 FR 80698, Dec. 23, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 48.1
Scope.
The provisions of this part apply to any foreign board of trade that is registered, required to be registered, or applying to become registered with the Commission in order to provide its identified members or other participants located in the United States with direct access to its electronic trading and order matching system.
§ 48.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Foreign board of trade.
Foreign board of trade means any board of trade, exchange or market located outside the United States, its territories or possessions, whether incorporated or unincorporated.
(b)
Foreign board of trade eligible to be registered.
A foreign board of trade eligible to be registered means a foreign board of trade that satisfies the requirements for registration specified in § 48.7 and:
(1) Possesses the attributes of an established, organized exchange,
(2) Adheres to appropriate rules prohibiting abusive trading practices,
(3) Enforces appropriate rules to maintain market and financial integrity,
(4) Has been authorized by a regulatory process that examines customer and market protections, and
(5) Is subject to continued oversight by a regulator that has power to intervene in the market and the authority to share information with the Commission.
(c)
Direct access.
Direct access means an explicit grant of authority by a foreign board of trade to an identified member or other participant located in the United States to enter trades directly into the trade matching system of the foreign board of trade.
(d)
Linked contract.
Linked contract means a futures, option or swap contract that is made available for trading by direct access by a registered foreign board of trade that settles against any price (including the daily or final settlement price) of one or more contracts listed for trading on a registered entity as defined in section 1a(40) of the Act.
(e)
Communications.
Communications means any written or electronic documentation or correspondence issued by or on behalf of the Commission, the United States Department of Justice, or the National Futures Association.
(f)
Material change.
Material change means a material change in the information provided to the Commission in support of an application for registration under this part. Subsequent to registration, material change also includes a material change in the operations of the foreign board of trade or its clearing organization and, without limitation, a change in any of the following: The membership or participant criteria of the foreign board of trade or its clearing organization; the location of the management, personnel or operations of the foreign board of trade or its clearing organization; the structure, nature, or operation of the trading or clearing systems; the regulatory or self-regulatory regime applicable to the foreign board of trade, its clearing organization, or their respective members and other participants; the authorization, licensure, registration or recognition of the foreign board of trade or clearing organization; and the ability of the clearing organization to observe the Recommendations for Central Counterparties.
(g)
Clearing organization.
Clearing organization means the foreign board of trade, affiliate of the foreign board of trade or any third party clearing house, clearing association, clearing corporation or similar entity, facility or organization that, with respect to any agreement, contract or transaction executed on or through the foreign board of trade, would be:
(1) Defined as a derivatives clearing organization under section 1a(15) of the Act; or
(2) Defined as a central counterparty by the Recommendations for Central Counterparties.
(h)
Swap.
Swap means a swap as defined in section 1a(47) of the Act and any Commission regulation further defining the term adopted thereunder.
(i)
Recommendations for Central Counterparties.
Recommendations for Central Counterparties means:
(1) The current Recommendations for Central Counterparties issued jointly by the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems and the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions as updated, revised or otherwise amended; or
(2) Successor standards, principles and guidance for central counterparties or financial market infrastructures adopted jointly by the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions and the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems.
(j)
Affiliate.
An affiliate of a registered foreign board of trade member or other participant means any person, as that term is defined in section 1a(38) of the Act, that:
(1) Owns 50% or more of the member or other participant;
(2) Is owned 50% or more by the member or other participant; or
(3) Is owned 50% or more by a third person that also owns 50% or more of the member or other participant.
(k)
Member or other participant.
Member or other participant means a member or other participant of a foreign board of trade that is registered under
this part and any affiliate thereof that has been granted direct access by the foreign board of trade.
[76 FR 80698, Dec. 23, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 66208, Aug. 15, 2024]
§ 48.3
Registration required.
(a) Except as specified in this part, it shall be unlawful for a foreign board of trade to permit direct access to its electronic trading and order matching system unless and until the Commission has issued a valid and current Order of Registration to the foreign board of trade pursuant to the provisions of this part.
(b) It shall be unlawful for a foreign board of trade or the clearing organization to make false or misleading statements in or in connection with any application for registration under this part.
§ 48.4
Registration eligibility and scope.
(a) Only foreign boards of trade eligible to be registered, as defined in § 48.2(b) of this part, are eligible for registration with the Commission pursuant to this part.
(b) A foreign board of trade may apply for registration under this part in order to permit the members and other participants of the foreign board of trade that are located in the United States to enter trades directly into the trading and order matching system of the foreign board of trade, to the extent that such members or other participants are:
(1) Entering orders for the member's or other participant's proprietary accounts;
(2) Registered with the Commission as futures commission merchants and are submitting customer orders to the trading system for execution;
(3) Registered with the Commission as a commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor, or are exempt from such registration pursuant to § 4.13 or § 4.14 of this chapter, and are submitting orders for execution on behalf of a United States pool that the member or other participant operates or an account of a United States customer for which the member or other participant has discretionary authority, respectively, provided that a futures commission merchant registered with the Commission as such or a firm exempt from such registration pursuant to § 30.10 of this chapter acts as clearing firm and guarantees, without limitation, all such trades of the commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor effected through submission of orders to the trading system; or
(4) Registered with the Commission as introducing brokers and are submitting customer orders to the trading system for execution, provided that a futures commission merchant registered with the Commission as such or a firm exempt from such registration pursuant to § 30.10 of this chapter acts as a clearing firm and guarantees, without limitation, all trades of the introducing broker effected through submission of orders for United States customers to the trading system.
[76 FR 80698, Dec. 23, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 66208, Aug. 15, 2024]
§ 48.5
Registration procedures.
(a) A foreign board of trade seeking registration with the Commission pursuant to this part must electronically file an application for registration with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington DC headquarters at
FBOTapplications@cftc.gov.
(b) A complete application for registration must include:
(1) A completed Form FBOT and Form Supplement S-1, as set forth in the appendix to this part, or any successor forms, and all information and documentation described in such forms; and
(2) Any additional information and documentation necessary, in the discretion of the Commission, to supplement the application including, but not limited to, documentation and information provided during the course of an on-site visit, as applicable, to the foreign board of trade, the clearing organization and the regulatory authority or authorities, to effectively demonstrate that the foreign board of trade and its clearing organization satisfy the registration requirements set forth in § 48.7.
(c) An applicant for registration must identify with particularity any information in the application that
will be subject to a request for confidential treatment and must provide support for any request for confidential treatment pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 145.9 of this chapter.
(d) If, upon review, the Commission finds the application for registration to be complete, the Commission may approve or deny the application. In reviewing the application, the Commission will consider, among other things:
(1) Whether the foreign board of trade is eligible to be registered as defined in § 48.2(b) and;
(2) Whether the foreign board of trade and its clearing organization are subject to comprehensive supervision and regulation by the appropriate governmental authorities in their home country or countries that is comparable to the comprehensive supervision and regulation to which designated contract markets and derivatives clearing organizations are respectively subject under the Act, Commission regulations, and other applicable United States laws and regulations, if any, and;
(3) Any previous Commission findings that the foreign board of trade and its clearing organization are subject to comprehensive supervision and regulation by the appropriate government authorities in their home country or countries that is comparable to the comprehensive supervision and regulation to which designated contract markets and derivatives clearing organizations are subject under the Act, Commission regulations, and other applicable United States laws and regulations, if any; and
(4) Whether the foreign board of trade and its clearing organization have adequately demonstrated that they meet the requirements for registration specified in § 48.7.
(5) The Commission's determination that the foreign board of trade and its clearing organization are subject to comprehensive supervision and regulation by the appropriate government authorities in their home country or countries that is comparable to the comprehensive supervision and regulation to which designated contract markets and derivatives clearing organizations are subject will be based upon a principles-based review conducted in a manner consistent with this part 48 pursuant to which the Commission will look to determine if the government authorities support and enforce regulatory objectives in the oversight of the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization that are substantially equivalent to the regulatory objectives supported and enforced by the Commission in its oversight of designated contract markets and derivatives clearing organizations.
(e) If the Commission approves the application, the Commission will issue an Order of Registration. If the Commission does not approve the application, the Commission will, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, issue a Notice of Action specifying that the application was not approved and setting forth the reasons therefor. The Commission, in its discretion, may impose conditions in the Order of Registration and may, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, amend, suspend, or otherwise restrict the terms of an issued Order of Registration or issue an Order revoking registration.
(f) A foreign board of trade whose application is not approved may reapply for registration 360 days after the issuance of the Notice of Action if the foreign board of trade has addressed any deficiencies in its original application or facts and circumstances relevant to the Commission's review of the application have changed.
§ 48.6
[Reserved]
§ 48.7
Requirements for registration.
An applicant for registration must demonstrate that it and, where applicable, its clearing organization meet the following requirements. The registration requirements applicable to clearing organizations may alternatively be met by demonstrating that the clearing organization is registered and in good standing with the Commission as a derivatives clearing organization. The Commission, in its discretion, may request additional information and documentation in connection with an application for registration and an applicant for registration must provide promptly any such additional information or documentation. The
Commission, in its discretion, also may impose additional registration requirements that the Commission deems necessary after appropriate notice and opportunity to respond.
(a) Foreign Board of Trade and Clearing Membership:
(1) The members and other participants of the foreign board of trade and its clearing organization are fit and proper and meet appropriate financial and professional standards;
(2) The foreign board of trade and its clearing organization have and enforce provisions to minimize and resolve conflicts of interest; and
(3) The foreign board of trade and its clearing organization have and enforce rules prohibiting the disclosure, both during and subsequent to service on a board or committee, of material non-public information obtained as a result of a member's or other participant's performance of duties as a member of their respective governing boards and significant committees.
(b) The Automated Trading System:
(1) The trading system complies with Principles for the Oversight of Screen-Based Trading Systems for Derivative Products developed by the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions,
(2) The trade matching algorithm matches trades fairly and timely,
(3) The audit trail captures all relevant data, including changes to orders, and audit trail data is securely maintained and available for an adequate time period,
(4) Adequate and appropriate trade data is made available to users and the public,
(5) The trading system has demonstrated reliability,
(6) Access to the trading system is secure and protected,
(7) There are adequate provisions for emergency operations and disaster recovery,
(8) Trading data is backed up to prevent loss of data, and
(9) Only those futures, option or swap contracts that have been identified to the Commission in the foreign board of trade's application for registration or permitted to be made available for trading by direct access pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 48.10 of this part are made available for trading by direct access.
(c) Terms and Conditions of Contracts to Be Made Available in the United States.
(1) Contracts must meet the following standards:
(i) Contracts must be futures, option or swap contracts that would be eligible to be traded on a designated contract market;
(ii) Contracts must be cleared;
(iii) Contracts must not be prohibited from being traded by United States persons; and
(iv) Contracts must not be readily susceptible to manipulation.
(2) Foreign futures and option contracts on non-narrow-based security indexes must have been certified by the Commission pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 30.13 of this chapter.
(3) Contracts that have the following characteristics must be specifically identified as having such characteristics:
(i) Contracts that are linked to a contract listed for trading on a registered entity as defined in section 1a(40) of the Act, and
(ii) Contracts that have any other relationship with a contract listed for trading on a registered entity (for example, if both the foreign board of trade's and the registered entity's contract settle to the price of the same third party-constructed index).
(d) Settlement and Clearing:
(1) The clearing organization observes the Recommendations for Central Counterparties or is registered with the Commission as a derivatives clearing organization, and
(2) The clearing organization is in good regulatory standing in its home country jurisdiction.
(e) The Regulatory Regimes Governing the Foreign Board of Trade and the Clearing Organization:
(1) The regulatory authorities provide comprehensive supervision and regulation of the foreign board of trade, the clearing organization, and the type of contracts to be made available through direct access that is comparable to the comprehensive supervision and regulation provided by the Commission to designated contract
markets, derivatives clearing organizations and such contracts. That is, the regulatory authorities support and enforce regulatory objectives in the oversight of the foreign board of trade, clearing organization and the type of contracts that the foreign board of trade wishes to make available through direct access that are substantially equivalent to the regulatory objectives supported and enforced by the Commission in its oversight of designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, and such products.
(2) The regulatory authorities engage in ongoing regulatory supervision and oversight of the foreign board of trade and its trading system, the clearing organization and its clearing system, and the members, intermediaries and other participants of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization, with respect to, among other things, market integrity, customer protection, clearing and settlement and the enforcement of the rules of the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization.
(3) The regulatory authorities have the power to share information directly with the Commission, upon request, including information necessary to evaluate the continued eligibility of the foreign board of trade for registration and to audit for compliance with the terms and conditions of the registration.
(4) The regulatory authorities have the power to intervene in the market.
(f) The Rules of the Foreign Board of Trade and the Clearing Organization and Enforcement Thereof:
(1) The foreign board of trade and its clearing organization have implemented and enforce rules to ensure compliance with the requirements of registration contained in this part;
(2) The foreign board of trade and its clearing organization have the capacity to detect, investigate, and sanction persons who violate their respective rules;
(3) The foreign board of trade and the clearing organization (or their respective regulatory authorities) have implemented and enforce disciplinary procedures that empower them to recommend and prosecute disciplinary actions for suspected rule violations, impose adequate sanctions for such violations, and provide adequate protections to charged parties pursuant to fair and clear standards;
(4) The foreign board of trade and its clearing organization are authorized by rule or by contractual agreement to obtain, from members and other participants, any information and cooperation necessary to conduct investigations, to effectively enforce their respective rules, and to ensure compliance with the conditions of registration;
(5) The foreign board of trade and its clearing organization have sufficient compliance staff and resources, including by delegation and/or outsourcing to a third party, to fulfill their respective regulatory responsibilities, including appropriate trade practice surveillance, real time market monitoring, market surveillance, financial surveillance, protection of customer funds, enforcement of clearing and settlement provisions and other compliance and regulatory responsibilities;
(6) The foreign board of trade has implemented and enforces rules with respect to access to the trading system and the means by which the connection thereto is accomplished;
(7) The foreign board of trade's audit trail captures and retains sufficient order and trade-related data to allow its compliance staff to detect trading and market abuses and to reconstruct all transactions within a reasonable period of time;
(8) The foreign board of trade has implemented and enforces rules prohibiting fraud and abusive trading practices including, but not limited to, wash sales and trading ahead;
(9) The foreign board of trade has the capacity to detect and deter, and has implemented and enforces rules relating to, market manipulation, attempted manipulation, price distortion, and other disruptions of the market; and
(10) The foreign board of trade has and enforces rules and procedures that ensure a competitive, open and efficient market and mechanism for executing transactions.
(g) Information Sharing:
(1) The regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign
board of trade and the clearing organization are signatories to the International Organization of Securities Commissions Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding, or otherwise ensure that substitute information sharing arrangements that are satisfactory to the Commission are in place;
(2) The regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization are signatories to the Declaration on Cooperation and Supervision of International Futures Exchanges and Clearing Organizations or otherwise commit, in writing, to share the types of information contemplated by the International Information Sharing Memorandum of Understanding and Agreement with the Commission;
(3) The foreign board of trade has executed the International Information Sharing Memorandum of Understanding and Agreement; and
(4) Pursuant to the conditions described in § 48.8(a)(6), the foreign board of trade and clearing organization agree to provide directly to the Commission, upon request, any information necessary, in the discretion of the Commission, to evaluate the continued eligibility and appropriateness of the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization, or their respective members or other participants for registration, to audit for and enforce compliance with the requirements and conditions of the registration, or to enable the Commission to carry out its duties under the Act and Commission regulations.
§ 48.8
Conditions of registration.
Upon registration under this part, and on an ongoing basis thereafter, the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization shall comply with the applicable conditions of registration set forth in this section and any additional conditions that the Commission deems necessary and may impose, in its discretion, and after appropriate notice and opportunity to respond. Such conditions could include, but are not limited to, additional conditions applicable to the listing of swap contracts. Continued registration is expressly conditioned upon satisfaction of these conditions.
(a)
Specified conditions for maintaining registration.
(1) Registration Requirements: The foreign board of trade and its clearing organization shall continue to satisfy all of the requirements for registration set forth in § 48.7.
(2) Regulatory Regime:
(i) The foreign board of trade will continue to satisfy the criteria for a regulated market or licensed exchange pursuant to the regulatory regime described in its application and will continue to be subject to oversight by the regulatory authorities described in its application.
(ii) The clearing organization will continue to satisfy the criteria for a regulated clearing organization pursuant to the regulatory regime described in the application for registration and will continue to be in good standing with the relevant regulatory authority.
(iii) The laws, systems, rules, and compliance mechanisms of the regulatory regime applicable to the foreign board of trade will continue to require the foreign board of trade to maintain fair and orderly markets; prohibit fraud, abuse, and market manipulation and other disruptions of the market; and provide that such requirements are subject to the oversight of appropriate regulatory authorities.
(3) Satisfaction of International Standards:
(i) The foreign board of trade will continue to comply with the Principles for the Oversight of Screen-Based Trading Systems for Derivative Products developed by the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions, as updated, revised, or otherwise amended, to the extent such principles do not contravene United States law.
(ii) The clearing organization will continue to:
(A) Be registered with the Commission as a derivatives clearing organization and be in compliance with the laws and regulations related thereto; or
(B) Observe the Recommendations for Central Counterparties.
(4) Restrictions on Direct Access:
(i) Only the foreign board of trade's identified members or other participants will have direct access to the foreign board of trade's trading system
from the United States and the foreign board of trade will not provide, and will take reasonable steps to prevent, third parties from providing direct access to persons other than the identified members or other participants.
(ii) All orders that are transmitted to the foreign board of trade's trading system by a foreign board of trade's identified member or other participant that is operating pursuant to the foreign board of trade's registration will be solely for the member's or trading participant's own account unless such member or other participant is registered with the Commission as a futures commission merchant or such member or other participant is registered with the Commission as an introducing broker, commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor, or is exempt from registration as a commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor pursuant to § 4.13 or § 4.14 of this chapter, provided that a futures commission merchant registered with the Commission as such or a firm exempt from such registration pursuant to § 30.10 of this chapter acts as clearing firm and guarantees, without limitation, all trades of the introducing broker, commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor effected through submission of orders for United States pools or customers to the trading system.
(5) Submission to Commission Jurisdiction:
(i) Prior to operating pursuant to registration under this part and on a continuing basis thereafter, a registered foreign board of trade will require that each current and prospective member or other participant that is granted direct access to the foreign board of trade's trading system and that is not registered with the Commission as a futures commission merchant, an introducing broker, a commodity trading advisor or a commodity pool operator, file with the foreign board of trade a written representation, executed by a person with the authority to bind the member or other participant, stating that as long as the member or other participant is authorized to enter orders directly into the trade matching system of the foreign board of trade, the member or other participant agrees to and submits to the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to activities conducted pursuant to the registration.
(ii) The foreign board of trade and its clearing organization will file with the Commission a valid and binding appointment of an agent for service of process in the United States pursuant to which the agent is authorized to accept delivery and service of communications, as defined in § 48.2(e) issued by or on behalf of the Commission, the United States Department of Justice, or the National Futures Association.
(iii) The foreign board of trade, clearing organization, and each current and prospective member or other participant that is granted direct access to the foreign board of trade's trading system and that is not registered with the Commission as a futures commission merchant, an introducing broker, a commodity trading advisor, or a commodity pool operator will maintain with the foreign board of trade written representations, executed by persons with the authority to bind the entity making them, stating that as long as the foreign board of trade is registered under this part, the foreign board of trade, the clearing organization or member of either or other participant granted direct access pursuant to this part will provide, upon the request of the Commission, the United States Department of Justice and, if appropriate, the National Futures Association, prompt access to the entity's, member's, or other participant's original books and records or, at the election of the requesting agency, a copy of specified information containing such books and records, as well as access to the premises where the trading system is available in the United States.
(iv) The foreign board of trade will maintain all representations required pursuant to § 48.8(a)(5) as part of its books and records and make them available to the Commission upon request.
(6) Information Sharing:
(i) Information-sharing arrangements satisfactory to the Commission, including but not limited to those set forth in § 48.7(g), are in effect between the Commission and the regulatory authorities that govern the activities of
both the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization.
(ii) The Commission is, in fact, able to obtain sufficient information regarding the foreign board of trade, the clearing organization, their respective members and participants and the activities related to the foreign board of trade's registration.
(iii) The foreign board of trade and its clearing organization, as applicable, will provide directly to the Commission any information necessary to evaluate the continued eligibility and appropriateness of the foreign board of trade for registration, the capability and determination to enforce compliance with the requirements and conditions of the registration, or to enable the Commission to carry out its duties under the Act and Commission regulations and to provide adequate protection to the public or United States registered entities.
(iv) In the event that the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization are separate entities, the foreign board of trade will require the clearing organization to enter into a written agreement in which the clearing organization is contractually obligated to promptly provide any and all information and documentation that may be required of the clearing organization under this regulation and such agreement shall be made available to the Commission, upon request.
(7) Monitoring for Compliance: The foreign board of trade and the clearing organization will employ reasonable procedures for monitoring and enforcing compliance with the specified conditions of its registration.
(8) On-Site Visits: The foreign board of trade and the clearing organization will permit and will cooperate with Commission staff with respect to on-site visits for the purpose of overseeing ongoing compliance of the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization with registration requirements and conditions of registration.
(9) Conditions Applicable to Swap Trading:
(i) The foreign board of trade will ensure that all transaction data relating to each swap transaction, including price and volume, are reported as soon as technologically practicable after execution of the swap transaction to a swap data repository that is either registered with the Commission or has an information sharing arrangement with the Commission.
(ii) The foreign board of trade will agree to coordinate with the Commission with respect to arrangements established to address cross market oversight issues involving swap trading, including surveillance, emergency actions and the monitoring of trading.
(b)
Other continuing obligations.
(1) Registered foreign boards of trade and their clearing organizations will continue to comply with the following obligations on an ongoing basis:
(i) The foreign board of trade will maintain the following updated information and submit such information to the Commission on at least a quarterly basis, not later than 30 days following the end of the quarter, and at any time promptly upon the request of a Commission representative, computed based upon separating buy sides and sell sides, in a format as determined by the Commission:
(A) For each contract available to be traded through the foreign board of trade's trading system;
(
1
) The total trade volume originating from electronic trading devices providing direct access;
(
2
) The total trade volume for such contracts traded through the trading system worldwide;
(
3
) The total trade volume for such contracts traded on the foreign board of trade generally; and
(B) A listing of the names, National Futures Association identification numbers (if applicable), and main business addresses in the United States of all members and other participants that have direct access.
(ii) The foreign board of trade will promptly provide to the Commission written notice of the following:
(A) Any material change to the information provided in the foreign board of trade's registration application.
(B) Any material change in the rules of the foreign board of trade or clearing organization or the laws, rules, or regulations in the home country jurisdictions of the foreign board of trade or
clearing organization relevant to futures, option or swap contracts made available by direct access.
(C) Any matter known to the foreign board of trade, the clearing organization or its representatives that, in the judgment of the foreign board of trade or clearing organization, may affect the financial or operational viability of the foreign board of trade or its clearing organization with respect to contracts traded by direct access, including, but not limited to, any significant system failure or interruption.
(D) Any default, insolvency, or bankruptcy of any foreign board of trade member or other participant that is or should be known to the foreign board of trade or its representatives or the clearing organization or its representatives that may have a material, adverse impact upon the condition of the foreign board of trade as it relates to trading by direct access, its clearing organization or upon any United States customer or firm or any default, insolvency or bankruptcy of any member of the foreign board of trade's clearing organization.
(E) Any violation of any specified conditions of the foreign board of trade's registration or failure to satisfy the requirements for registration under this part that is known or should be known by the foreign board of trade, the clearing organization or any of their respective members or participants.
(F) Any disciplinary action by the foreign board of trade or its clearing organization, or any regulatory authority that governs their respective activities, taken against any of their respective members or participants with respect to any contract available to be traded by direct access that involves any market manipulation, abuse, fraud, deceit, or conversion or that results in suspension or expulsion.
(iii) The foreign board of trade and the clearing organization, or their respective regulatory authorities, as applicable, will provide the following to the Commission annually as of June 30 and not later than July 31.
(A) A certification from the foreign board of trade's regulatory authority confirming that the foreign board of trade retains its authorization, licensure or registration, as applicable, as a regulated market and/or exchange under the authorization, licensing, recognition or other registration methodology used by the foreign board of trade's regulatory authority and that the foreign board of trade is in continued good standing.
(B) If the clearing organization is not a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commission, a certification from the clearing organization's regulatory authority confirming that the clearing organization retains its authorization, licensure or registration, as applicable, as a clearing organization under the authorization, licensing or other registration methodology used by the clearing organization's regulatory authority and is in continued good standing.
(C) If the clearing organization is not a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commission, a recertification of the clearing organization's observance of the Recommendations for Central Counterparties.
(D) A certification that affiliates, as defined in § 48.2(k), continue to be required to comply with the rules of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization and that the members or other participants to which they are affiliated remain responsible to the foreign board of trade for ensuring their affiliates' compliance.
(E) A description of any material changes regarding the foreign board of trade or clearing organization that have not been previously disclosed, in writing, to the Commission, or a certification that no such material changes have occurred.
(F) A description of any significant disciplinary or enforcement actions that have been instituted by or against the foreign board of trade or the clearing organization or the senior officers of either during the prior year.
(G) A written description of any material changes to the regulatory regime to which the foreign board of trade or the clearing organization are subject that have not been previously disclosed, in writing, to the Commission, or a certification that no material changes have occurred.
(2) The above-referenced annual reports must be signed by an officer of
the foreign board of trade or the clearing organization who maintains the authority to bind the foreign board of trade or clearing organization, as applicable, and must be based on the officer's personal knowledge.
(c)
Additional specified conditions for foreign boards of trade with linked contacts.
If a registered foreign board of trade grants members or other participants direct access and makes available for trading a linked contract, the following additional conditions apply:
(1) Statutory Conditions.
(i) The foreign board of trade will make public daily trading information regarding the linked contract that is comparable to the daily trading information published by the registered entity for the contract to which the foreign board of trade's contract is linked, and
(ii) The foreign board of trade (or its regulatory authority) will:
(A) Adopt position limits (including related hedge exemption provisions) applicable to all market participants for the linked contract that are comparable to the position limits (including related hedge exemption provisions) adopted by the registered entity for the contract to which it is linked;
(B) Have the authority to require or direct any market participant to limit, reduce, or liquidate any position the foreign board of trade (or its regulatory authority) determines to be necessary to prevent or reduce the threat of price manipulation, excessive speculation as described in section 4a of the Act, price distortion, or disruption of delivery on the cash settlement process;
(C) Agree to promptly notify the Commission, with regard to the linked contract, of any change regarding—
(
1
) The information that the foreign board of trade will make publicly available,
(
2
) The position limits that foreign board of trade or its regulatory authority will adopt and enforce,
(
3
) The position reductions required to prevent manipulation, excessive speculation as described in section 4a of the Act, price distortion, or disruption of delivery or the cash settlement process, and
(
4
) Any other area of interest expressed by the Commission to the foreign board of trade or its regulatory authority;
(D) Provide information to the Commission regarding large trader positions in the linked contract that is comparable to the large trader position information collected by the Commission for the contract to which it is linked; and
(E) Provide the Commission such information as is necessary to publish reports on aggregate trader positions for the linked contract that are comparable to such reports on aggregate trader positions for the contract to which it is linked.
(2) Other Conditions on Linked Contracts.
(i) The foreign board of trade will inform the Commission in a quarterly report of any member that had positions in a linked contract above the applicable foreign board of trade position limit, whether a hedge exemption was granted, and if not, whether a disciplinary action was taken.
(ii) The foreign board of trade will provide the Commission, either directly or through its agent, with trade execution and audit trail data for the Commission's Trade Surveillance System on a trade-date plus one basis and in a form, content and manner acceptable to the Commission for all linked contracts.
(iii) The foreign board of trade will provide to the Commission, at least one day prior to the effective date thereof, except in the event of an emergency market situation, copies of, or hyperlinks to, all rules, rule amendments, circulars and other notices published by the foreign board of trade with respect to all linked contracts.
(iv) The foreign board of trade will provide to the Commission copies of all reports of disciplinary action involving the foreign board of trade's linked contracts upon closure of the action. Such reports should include the reason the action was undertaken, the results of the investigation that led to the disciplinary action, and any sanctions imposed.
(v) In the event that the Commission, pursuant to its emergency powers authority, directs that the registered entity which lists the contract to which the foreign board of trade's contract is linked to take emergency action with respect to a linked contract (for example, to cease trading in the contract), the foreign board of trade, subject to information-sharing arrangements between the Commission and its regulatory authority, will promptly take similar action with respect to the its linked contract.
[76 FR 80698, Dec. 23, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 66209, Aug. 15, 2024]
§ 48.9
Revocation of registration.
(a) Failure to Satisfy Registration Requirements or Conditions:
(1) If the Commission determines that a registered foreign board of trade or the clearing organization has failed to satisfy any registration requirements or conditions for registration, the Commission shall notify the foreign board of trade of such determination, including the particular requirements or conditions that are not being satisfied, and shall afford the foreign board of trade or clearing organization an opportunity to make appropriate changes to bring it into compliance.
(2) If, not later than 30 days after receiving a notification under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the foreign board of trade or clearing organization fails to make changes that, in the opinion of the Commission, are necessary to comply with the registration requirements or conditions of registration, the Commission may revoke the foreign board of trade's registration, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, by issuing an Order Revoking Registration which sets forth the reasons therefor.
(3) A foreign board of trade whose registration has been revoked for failure to satisfy a registration requirement or condition of registration may apply for re-registration 360 days after the issuance of the Order Revoking Registration if the deficiency causing the revocation has been cured or relevant facts and circumstances have changed.
(b)
Other events that could result in revocation.
Notwithstanding § 48.9(a), revocation under these circumstances will be handled by the Commission as relevant facts or circumstances warrant.
(1) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, if the Commission determines that a representation made in the foreign board of trade's application for registration is found to be untrue or materially misleading or if the foreign board of trade failed to include information in the application that would have been material to the Commission's determination as to whether to issue an Order of Registration.
(2) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, if there is a material change in the regulatory regime applicable to the foreign board of trade or clearing organization such that the regulatory regime no longer satisfies any registration requirement or condition for registration applicable to the regulatory regime.
(3) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration in the event of an emergency or in a circumstance where the Commission determines that revocation would be necessary or appropriate in the public interest. Following revocation, the Commission will provide notice and an opportunity to respond.
(4) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration in the event the foreign board of trade or the clearing organization is no longer authorized, licensed or registered, as applicable, as a regulated market and/or exchange or clearing organization or ceases to operate as a foreign board of trade or clearing organization, subject to notice and an opportunity to respond.
(5) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration in response to a voluntary request by the foreign board of trade to vacate its registration. A foreign board of trade may file a request to vacate its registration with the Secretary of the Commission at
FBOTapplications@cftc.gov.
(c) Upon request by the Commission, a registered foreign board of trade
must file with the Commission a written demonstration, containing such supporting data, information, and documents, in such form and manner and within such timeframe as the Commission may specify, that the foreign board of trade or clearing organization is in compliance with the registration requirements and/or conditions for registration.
[76 FR 80698, Dec. 23, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 66209, Aug. 15, 2024]
§ 48.10
Additional contracts.
(a)
Generally.
A registered foreign board of trade that wishes to make an additional futures, option or swap contract available for trading by identified members or other participants located in the United States with direct access to its electronic trading and order matching system must submit a written request prior to offering the contracts from within the United States. Such a written request must include the terms and conditions of the additional futures, option or swap contracts and a certification that the additional contracts meet the requirements of § 48.8(c), if applicable, and that the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization continue to satisfy the requirements and conditions of registration. The foreign board of trade can make available for trading by direct access the additional contracts ten business days after the date of receipt by the Commission of the written request, unless the Commission notifies the foreign board of trade that additional time is needed to complete its review of policy or other issues pertinent to the additional contracts. A registered foreign board of trade may list for trading by direct access an additional futures or option contract on a non-narrow-based security index pursuant to the Commission certification procedures set forth in § 30.13(d) and appendix D to part 30 of this chapter.
(b)
Option contracts on previously approved futures contracts.
(1) If the option is on a futures contract that is not a linked contract, the option contract may be made available for trading by direct access by filing with the Commission no later than the business day preceding the initial listing of the contract:
(i) A copy of the terms and conditions of the additional contract and
(ii) A certification that the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization continue to satisfy the conditions of its registration.
(2) If the option is on a futures contract that is a linked contract, the option contract may be made available for trading by direct access by filing with the Commission no later than the business day preceding the initial listing of the contract:
(i) A copy of the terms and conditions of the additional contract; and
(ii) A certification that the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization continue to satisfy the conditions of its registration, including the conditions specifically applicable to linked contracts set forth in § 48.8(c).
(3) If the option is on a non-narrow-based security index futures contract which may be offered or sold in the United States pursuant to a Commission certification issued pursuant to § 30.13 of this chapter, the option contract may be listed for trading by direct access without further action by either the registered foreign board of trade or the Commission.
§ 48.11
Delegation of authority.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, the authority:
(1) In § 48.7, to request additional information and documentation in connection with an application for registration;
(2) In § 48.9(a)(1), to notify a registered foreign board of trade that it or the clearing organization has failed to satisfy any registration requirements or conditions for registration;
(3) In § 48.9(c), to request that a registered foreign board of trade file with the Commission a written demonstration, containing such supporting data, information, and documents, in such form and manner and within such timeframe as the Commission may specify, that the foreign board of trade
or clearing organization is in compliance with the registration requirements and/or conditions for registration; and
(4) In § 48.10, to notify a foreign board of trade whether additional time is needed for staff to complete its review of policy or other issues pertinent to the additional contracts, or that the contract can be made available for trading by direct access.
(b) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated in this section.
(c) Nothing in this section prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
[82 FR 28769, June 26, 2017]
Pt. 48, App.

# Appendix to Part 48—Form FBOT

# COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

# FORM FBOT

# FOREIGN BOARD OF TRADE APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION (IN ORDER TO PERMIT DIRECT ACCESS TO MEMBERS AND OTHER PARTICIPANTS)

# APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS

# DEFINITIONS
1. Unless the context requires otherwise, all terms used in this application have the same meaning as in the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (CEA or Act),
1
and in the regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Commission
or CFTC).
2
1
7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
2
17 CFR chapter I.
2. For the purposes of this Form FBOT, the term “applicant” refers to the foreign board of trade applying for registration pursuant to CEA section 4(b) and part 48 of the Commission's regulations. The term “clearing organization” refers to the clearing organization that will be clearing trades executed on the trading system of such foreign board of trade.

# GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
1. A Form FBOT (including exhibits) shall be completed by any foreign board of trade applying for registration with the Commission pursuant to CEA section 4(b) and part 48 of the Commission's regulations.
2. Form FBOT (including exhibits and any supplement thereto) (collectively, the “application” or “application for registration”) must be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission at
FBOTapplications@cftc.gov.
Applicants may prepare their own Form FBOT, but must follow the format prescribed herein.
3. The name of any individual listed in Form FBOT shall be provided in full (Last Name, First Name and Middle Name or Initial).
4. Form FBOT must be signed by the Chief Executive Officer (or the functional equivalent) of the foreign board of trade who must possess the authority to bind the foreign board of trade.
5. If this Form FBOT is being filed as a new application for registration, all applicable items on the Form FBOT must be answered in full. Non-applicable items should be indicated by marking “none” or “N/A.”
6. Submission of a complete Form FBOT (including all information, documentation and exhibits requested therein, and any required supplement) is mandatory and must be received by the Commission before it will begin to process a foreign board of trade's application for registration. The information provided with a Form FBOT (including exhibits and any supplement thereto) will be used to determine whether the Commission should approve or deny registration to an applicant. Pursuant to its regulations, the Commission may determine that information and/or documentation in addition to that requested in the Form FBOT is required from the applicant in order to process the application for registration or to determine whether registration is appropriate.
7. Pursuant to Commission regulations, an applicant or its clearing organization must identify with particularity any information in the application (including, but not limited to, any information contained in this Form FBOT) that will be the subject of a request for confidential treatment and must provide support for any request for confidential treatment pursuant to the procedures set forth in Commission regulation 145.9.
3
Except in cases where confidential treatment is granted by the Commission pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act and Commission regulations, information supplied in the Form FBOT (including exhibits and any supplement thereto) will be included routinely in the public files of the Commission and will be available for inspection and comment by any interested person.
3
17 CFR 145.9.
8. A Form FBOT that is not prepared and executed in compliance with applicable requirements and instructions may be returned as not acceptable for filing.
4
Acceptance of a Form FBOT by the Commission, however, shall not constitute a finding that the Form FBOT has been filed as required or that the information submitted is verified to be true, current, or complete. The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, if the Commission determines that a representation made in this Form FBOT is found to be untrue or materially misleading or if the foreign board of trade failed to include information in this Form FBOT that would have been material to the Commission's determination as to whether to issue an Order of Registration.
4
Applicants and their clearing organizations are encouraged to correspond with the Commission's Division of Market Oversight regarding any content, procedural, or formatting questions encountered in connection with the preparation of a Form FBOT, or any exhibits or supplements thereto, prior to formally submitting those documents to the Commission. When appropriate, potential applicants and clearing organizations, as applicable, may provide a complete draft Form FBOT (including exhibits and any required supplement) to the Division of Market Oversight for early review to minimize the risk of having a submission returned or otherwise denied as not acceptable for filing. Review of draft submissions by any division of the Commission and any comments provided by a division of the Commission are for consultation purposes only and do not bind the Commission. To obtain instructions for submitting drafts, please contact the Division of Market Oversight.
9. In addition to this Form FBOT, the clearing organization associated with the foreign board of trade must complete and submit Supplement S-1 to this Form FBOT in accordance with the instructions thereto. To the extent a single document or description is responsive to more than one request for the same information in either the Form FBOT or the Supplement S-1, the document or description need only be provided once and may be cross-referenced elsewhere.
10. All documents submitted as part of this Form FBOT (or exhibits thereto) must be written in English or accompanied by a certified English translation.

# UPDATING INFORMATION ON THE FORM FBOT
Pursuant to the Commission's regulations, if any information or documentation contained in this Form FBOT (including exhibits or any supplement or amendment thereto) is or becomes inaccurate for any reason prior to the issuance of an Order of Registration, an amendment correcting such information must be filed promptly with the Commission. A registered foreign board of trade also may submit an amendment to this Form FBOT to correct information that has become inaccurate subsequent to the receipt of an Order of Registration.
ER23DE11.051
ER23DE11.052
ER23DE11.053
ER23DE11.054

# INSTRUCTIONS FOR EXHIBITS TO FORM FBOT
1. The following exhibits must be filed with the Commission by any foreign board of trade (1) seeking registration for purposes of granting direct access to its members and other participants or (2) amending a previously submitted application, pursuant to
CEA section 4(b) and part 48 of the Commission's regulations. The information and documentation requested relates to the activities of the foreign board of trade, unless otherwise stated.
2. The exhibits should be filed in accordance with the General Instructions to this Form FBOT and labeled as specified herein. If any exhibit is not applicable, please specify the exhibit letter and number and indicate by marking “none” or “N/A.” If any exhibit may be satisfied by documentation or information submitted in a different exhibit, the documentation or information need not be submitted more than once—please use internal cross-references where appropriate.

# GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
A foreign board of trade applying for registration must submit sufficient information and documentation to successfully demonstrate to Commission staff that the foreign board of trade and its clearing organization satisfy all of the requirements of Commission regulation 48.7. With respect to its review of the foreign board of trade, the Commission anticipates that such information and documentation would necessarily include, but not be limited to, the following:

# EXHIBIT A—GENERAL INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTATION
Attach, as
Exhibit A-1,
a description of the following for the foreign board of trade: Location, history, size, ownership and corporate structure, governance and committee structure, current or anticipated presence of offices or staff in the United States, and anticipated volume of business emanating from members and other participants that will be provided direct access to the foreign board of trade's trading system.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-2,
the following:
Articles of association, constitution, or other similar organizational documents.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-3,
the following:
(1) Membership and trading participant agreements.
(2) Clearing agreements.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-4,
the following:
Terms and conditions of contracts to be available through direct access (as specified in Exhibit E).
Attach, as
Exhibit A-5,
the following:
The national statutes, laws and regulations governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and its respective participants.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-6,
the following:
The current rules, regulations, guidelines and bylaws of the foreign board of trade.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-7,
the following:
Evidence of the authorization, licensure or registration of the foreign board of trade pursuant to the regulatory regime in its home country jurisdiction and a representation by its regulator(s) that it is in good regulatory standing in the capacity in which it is authorized, licensed or registered.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-8,
the following document:
A summary of any disciplinary or enforcement actions or proceedings that have been brought against the foreign board of trade, or any of the senior officers thereof, in the past five years and the resolution of those actions or proceedings.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-9,
the following document:
An undertaking by the chief executive officer(s) (or functional equivalent[s]) of the foreign board of trade to notify Commission staff promptly if any of the representations made in connection with or related to the foreign board of trade's application for registration cease to be true or correct, or become incomplete or misleading.

# EXHIBIT B—MEMBERSHIP CRITERIA
Attach, as
Exhibit B,
the following, separately labeling each description:
(1) A description of the categories of membership and participation in the foreign board of trade and the access and trading privileges provided by the foreign board of trade. The description should include any restrictions applicable to members and other participants to which the foreign board of trade intends to grant direct access to its trading system.
(2) A description of all requirements for each category of membership and participation on the trading system and the manner in which members and other participants are required to demonstrate their compliance with these requirements. The description should include, but not be limited to, the following:
(i) Professional Qualification. A description of the specific professional requirements, qualifications, and/or competencies required of members or other participants and/or their staff and a description of the process by which the foreign board of trade confirms compliance with such requirements.
(ii) Authorization, Licensure and Registration. A description of any regulatory and self-regulatory authorization, licensure or registration requirements that the foreign board of trade imposes upon, or enforces against, its members and other participants including, but not limited to any authorization, licensure or registration requirements imposed by the regulatory regime/authority in the home country jurisdiction(s) of the foreign board of trade. Please also include a description of the process by which the foreign board of trade confirms compliance with such requirements.
(iii) Financial Integrity. A description of the following:
(A) The financial resource requirements, standards, guides or thresholds required of members and other participants.
(B) The manner in which the foreign board of trade evaluates the financial resources/holdings of its members or participants.
(C) The process by which applicants demonstrate compliance with financial requirements for membership or participation including, as applicable:
(
i
) Working capital and collateral requirements, and
(
ii
) Risk management mechanisms for members allowing customers to place orders.
(iv) Fit and Proper Standards. A description of how the foreign board of trade ensures that potential members/other participants meet fit and proper standards.

# EXHIBIT C—BOARD AND/OR COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
Attach, as
Exhibit C,
the following:
(1) A description of the requirements applicable to membership on the governing board and significant committees of the foreign board of trade.
(2) A description of the process by which the foreign board of trade ensures that potential governing board and committee members/other participants meet these standards.
(3) A description of the provisions to minimize and resolve conflicts of interest with respect to membership on the governing board and significant committees of the foreign board of trade.
(4) A description of the rules with respect to the disclosure of material non-public information obtained as a result of a member's or other participant's performance on the governing board or significant committee.

# EXHIBIT D—THE AUTOMATED TRADING SYSTEM
Attach, as
Exhibit D-1,
a description of (or where appropriate, documentation addressing) the following, separately labeling each description:
(1) The order matching/trade execution system, including a complete description of all permitted ways in which members or other participants (or their customers) may connect to the trade matching/execution system and the related requirements (for example, authorization agreements).
(2) The architecture of the systems, including hardware and distribution network, as well as any pre- and post-trade risk-management controls that are made available to system users.
(3) The security features of the systems.
(4) The length of time such systems have been operating.
(5) Any significant system failures or interruptions.
(6) The nature of any technical review of the order matching/trade execution system performed by the foreign board of trade, the home country regulator, or a third party.
(7) Trading hours.
(8) Types and duration of orders accepted.
(9) Information that must be included on orders.
(10) Trade confirmation and error trade procedures.
(11) Anonymity of participants.
(12) Trading system connectivity with clearing system.
(13) Response time.
(14) Ability to determine depth of market.
(15) Market continuity provisions.
(16) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
Attach, as
Exhibit D-2,
a description of the manner in which the foreign board of trade assures the following with respect to the trading system, separately labeling each description:
(1) Algorithm. The trade matching algorithm matches trades fairly and timely.
(2) IOSCO Principles. The trading system complies with the Principles for the Oversight of Screen-Based Trading Systems for Derivative Products developed by the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO Principles). Provide a copy of any independent certification received or self-certification performed and identify any system deficiencies with respect to the IOSCO Principles.
(3) Audit Trail.
(i) The audit trail timely captures all relevant data, including changes to orders.
(ii) Audit trail data is securely maintained and available for an adequate time period.
(4) Public Data. Adequate and appropriate trade data is available to users and the public.
(5) Reliability. The trading system has demonstrated reliability.
(6) Secure Access. Access to the trading system is secure and protected.
(7) Emergency Provisions. There are adequate provisions for emergency operations and disaster recovery.
(8) Data Loss Prevention. Trading data is backed up to prevent loss of data.
(9) Contracts Available. Mechanisms are available to ensure that only those futures, option or swap contracts that have been identified to the Commission as part of the application or permitted to be made available for trading by direct access pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 48.10 are made available for trading by direct access.
(10) Predominance of the Centralized Market. Mechanisms are available that ensure a competitive, open, and efficient market and mechanism for executing transactions.

# EXHIBIT E—THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF CONTRACTS PROPOSED TO BE MADE AVAILABLE IN THE UNITED STATES
Attach, as
Exhibit E-1,
a description of the terms and conditions of futures, option or swap contracts intended to be made available for direct access. With respect to each contract, indicate whether the contract is regulated or otherwise treated as a futures, option or swap contract in the regulatory regime(s) of the foreign board of trade's home country.
As
Exhibit E-2,
demonstrate that the contracts are not prohibited from being traded by United States persons,
i.e.,
the contracts are not prohibited security futures or single stock contracts or narrow-based index contracts. For non-narrow based stock index futures contracts, demonstrate that the contracts have received Commission certification pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 30.13 and appendix D to part 30 of this chapter.
As
Exhibit E-3,
demonstrate that the contracts are required to be cleared.
As
Exhibit E-4,
identify any contracts that are linked to a contract listed for trading on a United States-registered entity, as defined in section 1a(40) of the Act. A linked contract is a contract that settles against any price (including the daily or final settlement price) of one or more contracts listed for trading on such registered entity.
As
Exhibit E-5,
identify any contracts that have any other relationship with a contract listed for trading on a registered entity,
i.e.,
both the foreign board of trade's and the registered entity's contract settle to the price of the same third party-constructed index.
As
Exhibit E-6,
demonstrate that the contracts are not readily susceptible to manipulation. In addition, for each contract to be listed, describe each investigation, action, proceeding or case involving manipulation and involving such contract in the three years preceding the application date, whether initiated by the foreign board of trade, a regulatory or self-regulatory authority or agency or other government or prosecutorial agency. For each such action, proceeding or case, describe the alleged manipulative activity and the current status or resolution thereof.

# EXHIBIT F—THE REGULATORY REGIME GOVERNING THE FOREIGN BOARD OF TRADE IN ITS HOME COUNTRY
5

# OR COUNTRIES
With respect
to each relevant regulatory regime or authority governing the foreign board of trade, attach, as
Exhibit F,
the following (including, where appropriate, an indication as to whether the applicable regulatory regime is dependent on the home country's classification of the product being traded on the foreign board of trade as a future, option, swap, or otherwise, and a description of any difference between the applicable regulatory regime for each product classification type):
5
Where multiple foreign boards of trade subject to the same regulatory regime/authority and are similarly regulated are applying for registration
at the same time,
a single Exhibit E-1 may be submitted as part of the application for all such foreign boards of trade either by one of the applicant foreign boards of trade or by the regulatory regime/authority with responsibility to oversee each of the multiple foreign boards of trade applying for registration. Where an FBOT applying for registration is located in the same jurisdiction and subject to the same regulatory regime as a registered FBOT, the FBOT applying for registration may include by reference, as part of its application, information about the regulatory regime that is posted on the Commission's Web site. The FBOT applying for registration must certify that the information thus included in the application is directly applicable to it and remains current and valid.
(1) A description of the regulatory regime/authority's structure, resources, staff, and scope of authority; the regulatory regime/authority's authorizing statutes, including the source of its authority to supervise the foreign board of trade; the rules and policy statements issued by the regulator with respect to the authorization and continuing oversight of markets, electronic trading systems, and clearing organizations; and the financial protections afforded customer funds.
(2) A description of and, where applicable, copies of the laws, rules, regulations and policies applicable
to:
6
6
To the extent that any such laws, rules, regulations or policies were provided as part of Exhibit A-5, they need not be duplicated. They may be cross-referenced.
(i) The authorization, licensure or registration of the foreign board of trade.
(ii) The regulatory regime/authority's program for the ongoing supervision and oversight of the foreign board of trade and the enforcement of its trading rules.
(iii) The financial resource requirements applicable to the authorization, licensure or registration of the foreign board of trade and the continued operations thereof.
(iv) The extent to which the IOSCO Principles are used or applied by the regulatory regime/authority in its supervision and oversight of the foreign board of trade or are incorporated into its rules and regulations and the extent to which the regulatory regime/authority reviews the applicable trading systems for compliance therewith.
(v) The extent to which the regulatory regime/authority reviews and/or approves the trading rules of the foreign board of trade prior to their implementation.
(vi) The extent to which the regulatory regime/authority reviews and/or approves futures, option or swap contracts prior to their being listed for trading.
(vii) The regulatory regime/authority's approach to the detection and deterrence of abusive trading practices, market manipulation, and other unfair trading practices or disruptions of the market.
(3) A description of the laws, rules, regulations and policies that govern the authorization and ongoing supervision and oversight of market intermediaries who may deal with members and other participants located in the United States participants, including:
(i) Recordkeeping requirements.
(ii) The protection of customer funds.
(iii) Procedures for dealing with the failure of a market intermediary in order to minimize damage and loss to investors and to contain systemic risk.
(4) A description of the regulatory regime/authority's inspection, investigation and surveillance powers; and the program pursuant to which the regulatory regime/authority uses those powers to inspect, investigate, and enforce rules applicable to the foreign board of trade.
(5) For both the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization (unless addressed in Supplement S-1), a report confirming that the foreign board of trade and clearing organization are in regulatory good standing, which report should be prepared subsequent to consulting with the regulatory regime/authority governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and any associated clearing organization. The report should include:
(i) Confirmation of regulatory status (including proper authorization, licensure and registration) of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization.
(ii) Any recent oversight reports generated by the regulatory regime/authority that are, in the judgment of the regulatory regime/authority, relevant to the foreign board of trade's status as a registered foreign board of trade.
(iii) Disclosure of any significant regulatory concerns, inquiries or investigations by the regulatory regime/authority, including any concerns, inquiries or investigations with regard to the foreign board of trade's arrangements to monitor trading by members or other participants located in the United States or the adequacy of the risk management controls of the trading or of the clearing system.
(iv) A description of any investigations (formal or informal) or disciplinary actions initiated by the regulatory regime/authority or any other self-regulatory, regulatory or governmental entity against the foreign board of trade, the clearing organization or any of their respective senior officers during the past year.
(6) For both the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization (unless addressed in Supplement S-1), a confirmation that the regulatory regime/authority governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization agree to cooperate with a Commission staff visit subsequent to submission of the application on an “as needed basis,” the objectives of which will be to, among other things, familiarize Commission staff with supervisory staff of the regulatory regime/authority; discuss the laws, rules and regulations that formed the basis of the application and any changes thereto; discuss the cooperation and coordination between the authorities, including, without limitation, information sharing arrangements; and discuss issues of concern as they may develop from time to time (for example, linked contracts or unusual trading that may be of concern to Commission surveillance staff).

# EXHIBIT G—THE RULES OF THE FOREIGN BOARD OF TRADE AND ENFORCEMENT THEREOF
Attach, as
Exhibit G-1,
the following:
A description of the foreign board of trade's regulatory or compliance department, including its size, experience level, competencies, duties and responsibilities.
Attach, as
Exhibit G-2,
the following:
A description of the foreign board of trade's trade practice rules, including but not limited to rules that address the following—
(1) Capacity of the foreign board of trade to detect, investigate, and sanction persons who violate foreign board of trade rules.
(2) Prohibition of fraud and abuse, as well as abusive trading practices including, but not limited to, wash sales and trading ahead, and other market abuses.
(3) A trade surveillance system appropriate to the foreign board of trade and capable of detecting and investigating potential trade practice violations.
(4) An audit trail that captures and retains sufficient order and trade-related data to allow the compliance staff to detect trading and market abuses and to reconstruct all transactions within a reasonable period of time.
(5) Appropriate resources to conduct real-time supervision of trading.
(6) Sufficient compliance staff and resources, including those outsourced or delegated to third parties, to fulfill regulatory responsibilities.
(7) Rules that authorize compliance staff to obtain, from market participants, information and cooperation necessary to conduct effective rule enforcement and investigations.
(8) Staff investigations and investigation reports demonstrating that the compliance staff investigates suspected rule violations and prepares reports of their finding and recommendations.
(9) Rules determining access requirements with respect to the persons that may trade on the foreign board of trade, and the means by which they connect to it.
(10) The requirement that market participants submit to the foreign board of trade's jurisdiction as a condition of access to the market.
Attach, as
Exhibit G-3,
the following:
A description of the foreign board of trade's disciplinary rules, including but not limited to rules that address the following—
(1) Disciplinary authority and procedures that empower staff to recommend and prosecute disciplinary actions for suspected rule violations and that provide the authority to fine, suspend, or expel any market participant pursuant to fair and clear standards.
(2) The issuance of warning letters and/or summary fines for specified rule violations.
(3) The review of investigation reports by a disciplinary panel or other authority for issuance of charges or instructions to investigate further, or findings that an insufficient basis exists to issue charges.
(4) Disciplinary committees of the foreign board of trade that take disciplinary action via formal disciplinary processes.
(5) Whether and how the foreign board of trade articulates its rationale for disciplinary decisions.
(6) The sanctions for particular violations and a discussion of the adequacy of sanctions with respect to the violations committed and their effectiveness as a deterrent to future violations.
Attach, as
Exhibit G-4,
the following:
A description of the market surveillance program (and any related rules), addressing the following—
The dedicated market surveillance department or the delegation or outsourcing of that function, including a general description of the staff; the data collected on traders' market activity; data collected to determine whether prices are responding to supply and demand; data on the size and ownership of deliverable supplies; a description of the manner in which the foreign board of trade detects and deters market manipulation; for cash-settled contracts, methods of monitoring the settlement price or value; and any foreign board of trade position limit, position management, large trader or other position reporting system.

# EXHIBIT H—INFORMATION SHARING AGREEMENTS AMONG THE COMMISSION, THE FOREIGN BOARD OF TRADE, THE CLEARING ORGANIZATION, AND RELEVANT REGULATORY AUTHORITIES
Attach, as
Exhibit H,
the following:
(1) A description of the arrangements among the Commission, the foreign board of trade, the clearing organization, and the relevant foreign regulatory authorities that govern the sharing of information regarding the transactions that will be executed pursuant to the foreign board of trade's registration with the Commission and the clearing and settlement of those transactions. This description should address or identify whether and how the foreign board of trade, clearing organization, and the regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization agree to provide directly to the Commission information and documentation requested by Commission staff that Commission staff determines is needed:
(i) To evaluate the continued eligibility of the foreign board of trade for registration.
(ii) To enforce compliance with the specified conditions of the registration.
(iii) To enable the CFTC to carry out its duties under the Act and Commission regulations and to provide adequate protection to the public or registered entities.
(iv) To respond to potential market abuse associated with trading by direct access on the registered foreign board of trade.
(v) To enable Commission staff to effectively accomplish its surveillance responsibilities with respect to a registered entity where Commission staff, in its discretion, determines that a contract traded on a registered foreign board of trade may affect such ability.
(2) A statement as to whether and how the foreign board of trade has executed the International Information Sharing Memorandum of Understanding and Agreement.
(3) A statement as to whether the regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization are signatories to the International Organization of Securities Commissions Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding. If not, describe any substitute information-sharing arrangements that are in place.
(4) A statement as to whether the regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization are signatories to the Declaration on Cooperation and Supervision of International Futures Exchanges and Clearing Organizations. If not, a statement as to whether and how they have committed to share the types of information contemplated by the International Information Sharing
Memorandum of Understanding and Agreement with the Commission, whether pursuant to an existing memorandum of understanding or some other arrangement.

# EXHIBIT I—ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTATION
Attach, as
Exhibit I,
any additional information or documentation necessary to demonstrate that the requirements for registration applicable to the foreign board of trade set forth in Commission regulation 48.7 are satisfied.

# Continuation of Appendix to Part 48—Supplement S-1 to Form FBOT

# COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

# SUPPLEMENT S-1 to FORM FBOT

# CLEARING ORGANIZATION SUPPLEMENT TO FOREIGN BOARD OF TRADE APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION

# SUPPLEMENT INSTRUCTIONS

# DEFINITIONS
1. Unless the context requires otherwise, all terms used in this supplement have the same meaning as in the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (CEA or Act),
7
and in the regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Commission or CFTC).
8
7
7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
8
17 CFR chapter I.
2. For the purposes of this Supplement S-1, the term “applicant” refers to the foreign board of trade applying for registration pursuant to CEA section 4(b) and part 48 of the Commission's regulations. The term “clearing organization” refers to the clearing organization that will be clearing trades executed on the trading system of such foreign board of trade.

# GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
1. A Supplement S-1 (including exhibits) shall be completed by each clearing organization that will be clearing trades executed on the trading system of a foreign board of trade applying for registration with the Commission pursuant to CEA section 4(b) and part 48 of the Commission's regulations. Each clearing organization shall submit a separate Supplement S-1.
2. In the event that the clearing functions of the foreign board of trade applying for registration will be performed by the foreign board of trade itself, the foreign board of trade shall complete this Supplement S-1, but need not duplicate information provided on its Form FBOT. Specific reference to or incorporation of information or documentation (including exhibits) on the associated Form FBOT, where appropriate, is acceptable. To the extent a singular document or description is responsive to more than one request for information in this Supplement S-1, the document or description need only be provided once and may be cross-referenced elsewhere.
3. Supplement S-1, including exhibits, should accompany the foreign board of trade's Form FBOT and must be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission at
FBOTapplications@cftc.gov.
Clearing organizations may prepare their own Supplement S-1, but must follow the format prescribed herein.
4. The name of any individual listed in Supplement S-1 shall be provided in full (Last Name, First Name and Middle Name or Initial).
5. Supplement S-1 must be signed by the Chief Executive Officer (or the functional equivalent) of the clearing organization who must possess the authority to bind the clearing organization.
6. If this Supplement S-1 is being filed in connection with a new application for registration, all applicable items must be answered in full. If any item is not applicable, indicate by marking “none” or “N/A.”
7. Submission of a complete Form FBOT and Supplement S-1 (including all information, documentation and exhibits requested therein) is mandatory and must be received by the Commission before it will begin to process a foreign board of trade's application for registration. The information provided with a Form FBOT and Supplement S-1 will be used to determine whether the Commission should approve or deny registration to an applicant. Pursuant to its regulations, the Commission may determine that information and/or documentation in addition to that requested in the Form FBOT and Supplement S-1 is required from the applicant and/or its clearing organization(s) in order to process the application for registration or to determine whether registration is appropriate.
8. Pursuant to Commission regulations, an applicant or its clearing organization must identify with particularity any information in the application (including, but not limited to, any information contained in this Supplement S-1), that will be the subject of a request for confidential treatment and must provide support for any request for confidential treatment pursuant to the procedures set forth in Commission regulation 145.9.
9
Except in cases where confidential treatment is granted by the Commission, pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act and Commission regulations, information supplied in the Supplement S-1 will be included
routinely in the public files of the Commission and will be available for inspection by any interested person.
9
17 CFR 145.9.
9. A Supplement S-1 that is not prepared and executed in compliance with applicable requirements and instructions may be returned as not acceptable for filing.
10
Acceptance of either a Form FBOT or Supplement S-1 by the Commission, however, shall not constitute a finding that the either have been filed as required or that the information submitted is verified to be true, current, or complete. The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, if the Commission determines that a representation made in this Supplement S-1 is found to be untrue or materially misleading or if the foreign board of trade and/or clearing organization failed to include information in this Supplement S-1 that would have been material to the Commission's determination as to whether to issue an Order of Registration.
10
Applicants and their clearing organizations are encouraged to correspond with the Commission's Division of Market Oversight regarding any content, procedural, or formatting questions encountered in connection with the preparation of a Form FBOT, Supplement S-1, or exhibits thereto prior to formally submitting those documents to the Commission. When appropriate, potential applicants and clearing organizations, as applicable, may provide a complete draft Form FBOT and Supplement S-1 to the Division of Market Oversight for early review to minimize the risk of having a submission returned or otherwise denied as not acceptable for filing. Review of draft submissions by any division of the Commission and any comments provided by a division of the Commission are for consultation purposes only and do not bind the Commission. To obtain instructions for submitting drafts, please contact the Division of Market Oversight.
10. All documents submitted as part of this Supplement S-1 (or exhibits thereto) must be written in English or accompanied by a certified English translation.

# UPDATING INFORMATION
Pursuant to the Commission's regulations, if any information or documentation contained in this Supplement S-1 (including exhibits) is or becomes inaccurate for any reason prior to the issuance of an Order of Registration, an amendment correcting such information must be filed promptly with the Commission. A clearing organization also may submit an amendment to this Supplement S-1 to correct information that has become inaccurate subsequent to the issuance of an Order of Registration.
ER23DE11.055
ER23DE11.056
ER23DE11.057
ER23DE11.058
ER23DE11.059

# INSTRUCTIONS FOR EXHIBITS TO SUPPLEMENT S-1
1. The following exhibits must be filed with the Commission by the clearing organization(s) that will be clearing trades executed on the trading system of a foreign board of trade applying for registration with the Commission pursuant to CEA section 4(b) and part 48 of Commission's regulations. The information and documentation requested relates to the activities of the clearing organization.
2. The exhibits should be filed in accordance with the General Instructions to this Supplement S-1 and labeled as specified herein. If any exhibit is not applicable, please specify the exhibit letter and number and indicate by marking “none” or “N/A.” If any exhibit may be satisfied by documentation or information submitted in a different exhibit, the documentation or information need not be submitted more than once—please use internal cross-references where appropriate.

# GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
A foreign board of trade applying for registration must submit sufficient information and documentation to successfully demonstrate to Commission staff that the foreign board of trade and its clearing organization satisfy all of the requirements of Commission regulation 48.7. With respect to its review of the foreign board of trade's clearing organization, the Commission anticipates that such information and documentation would necessarily include, but not be limited to, the following:

# EXHIBIT A—GENERAL INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTATION
Attach, as
Exhibit A-1,
a description of the following for the clearing organization:
Location, history, size, ownership and corporate structure, governance and committee structure, and current or anticipated presence of staff in the United States.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-2,
the following:
Articles of association, constitution, or other similar organizational documents.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-3,
the following:
(1) Membership and participation agreements.
(2) Clearing agreements.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-4,
the following:
The national statutes, laws and regulations governing the activities of the clearing organization and its members.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-5,
the following:
The current rules, regulations, guidelines and bylaws of the clearing organization.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-6,
the following:
Evidence of the authorization, licensure or registration of the clearing organization pursuant to the regulatory regime in its home country jurisdiction(s) and a representation by its regulator(s) that it is in good regulatory standing in the capacity in which it is authorized, licensed or registered.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-7,
the following document:
A summary of any disciplinary or enforcement actions or proceedings that have been brought against the clearing organization, or any of the senior officers thereof, in the past five years and the resolution of those actions or proceedings.
Attach, as
Exhibit A-8,
the following document:
An undertaking by the chief executive officer(s) (or functional equivalent[s]) of the clearing organization to notify Commission staff promptly if any of the representations made in connection with this supplement cease to be true or correct, or become incomplete or misleading.

# EXHIBIT B—MEMBERSHIP CRITERIA
Attach, as
Exhibit B,
the following, separately labeling each description:
(1) A description of the categories of membership and participation in the clearing organization and the access and clearing privileges provided to each by the clearing organization.
(2) A description of all requirements for each category of membership and participation and the manner in which members and other participants are required to demonstrate their compliance with these requirements. The description should include, but not be limited to, the following:
(i) Professional Qualification. A description of the specific professional requirements, qualifications, and/or competencies required of members or other participants and/or their staff and a description of the process by which the clearing organization confirms compliance with such requirements.
(ii) Authorization, Licensure and Registration. A description of any regulatory or self-regulatory authorization, licensure or registration requirements that the clearing organization imposes upon, or enforces against, its members and other participants including, but not limited to any authorization, licensure or registration requirements imposed by the regulatory regime/authority in the home country jurisdiction(s) of the clearing organization, and a description of the process by which the clearing organization confirms compliance with such requirements.
(iii) Financial Integrity. A description of the following:
(A) The financial resource requirements, standards, guides or thresholds required of members and other participants.
(B) The manner in which the clearing organization evaluates the financial resources/holdings of its members or other participants.
(C) The process by which applicants for clearing membership or participation demonstrate compliance with financial requirements including:
(
1
) Working capital and collateral requirements, and
(
2
) Risk management mechanisms.
(iv) Fit and Proper Standards. A description of any other ways in which the clearing
organization ensures that potential members/other participants meet fit and proper standards.

# EXHIBIT C—BOARD AND/OR COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
Attach, as
Exhibit C,
the following:
(1) A description of the requirements applicable to membership on the governing board and significant committees of the clearing organization.
(2) A description of how the clearing organization ensures that potential governing board and committee members meet these standards.
(3) A description of the clearing organization's provisions to minimize and resolve conflicts of interest with respect to membership on the governing board and significant committees of the clearing organization.
(4) A description of the clearing organization's rules with respect to the disclosure of material non-public information obtained as a result of a member's performance on the governing board or on a significant committee.

# EXHIBIT D—SETTLEMENT AND CLEARING
Attach, as
Exhibit D-1,
the following:
A description of the clearing and settlement systems, including, but not limited to, the manner in which such systems interface with the foreign board of trade's trading system and its members and other participants.
Attach, as
Exhibit D-2,
the following:
A certification, signed by the chief executive offer (or functional equivalent) of the clearing organization, that the clearing system observes (1) the current Recommendations for Central Counterparties that have been issued jointly by the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems and the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions, as updated, revised or otherwise amended, or (2) successor standards, principles and guidance for central counterparties or financial market infrastructures adopted jointly by the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems or the International Organization of Securities Commissions (RCCPs).
Attach, as
Exhibit D-3,
the following:
A detailed description of the manner in which the clearing organization observes each of the RCCPs or successor standards and documentation supporting the representations made, including any relevant rules or written policies or procedures of the clearing organization. Each RCCP should be addressed separately within the exhibit.

# EXHIBIT E—THE REGULATORY REGIME GOVERNING THE CLEARING ORGANIZATION IN ITS HOME COUNTRY OR COUNTRIES
With respect to each relevant regulatory regime or authority governing the clearing organization, attach, as
Exhibit E,
the following:
(1) A description of the regulatory regime/authority's structure, resources, staff and scope of authority.
(2) The regulatory regime/authority's authorizing statutes, including the source of its authority to supervise the clearing organization.
(3) A description of and, where applicable, copies of the laws, rules, regulations and policies applicable to:
11
11
To the extent that any such laws, rules, regulations or policies were provided as part of Exhibit A-4, they need not be duplicated. They may be cross-referenced.
(i) The authorization, licensure or registration of the clearing organization.
(ii) The financial resource requirements applicable to the authorization, licensure or registration of the clearing organization and the continued operations thereof.
(iii) The regulatory regime/authority's program for the ongoing supervision and oversight of the clearing organization and the enforcement of its clearing rules.
(iv) The extent to which the current RCCPs are used or applied by the regulatory regime/authority in its supervision and oversight of the clearing organization or are incorporated into its rules and regulations and the extent to which the regulatory regime/authority reviews the clearing systems for compliance therewith.
(v) The extent to which the regulatory regime/authority reviews and/or approves the rules of the clearing organization prior to their implementation.
(vi) The regulatory regime/authority's inspection, investigation and surveillance powers; and the program pursuant to which the regulatory regime/authority uses those powers to inspect, investigate, sanction, and enforce rules applicable to the clearing organization.
(vii) The financial protection afforded customer funds.

# EXHIBIT F—THE RULES OF THE CLEARING ORGANIZATION AND ENFORCEMENT THEREOF
Attach, as
Exhibit F-1,
the following:
A description of the clearing organization's regulatory or compliance department, including its size, experience level, competencies, duties and responsibilities of staff.
Attach, as
Exhibit F-2,
the following:
A description of the clearing organization's rules and how they are enforced, with reference to any rules provided as part of Exhibit A-5 that require the clearing organization to comply with one or more of the RCCPs.
Attach, as
Exhibit F-3,
the following, to the extent not included in Exhibit F-2:
A description of the clearing organization's disciplinary rules, including but not limited to rules that address the following—
(1) Disciplinary authority and procedures that empower staff to recommend and prosecute disciplinary actions for suspected rule violations and that provide the authority to fine, suspend, or expel any clearing participant pursuant to fair and clear standards.
(2) The issuance of warning letters and/or summary fines for specified rule violations.
(3) The review of investigation reports by a disciplinary panel or other authority for issuance of charges or instructions to investigate further, or findings that an insufficient basis exists to issue charges.
(4) Disciplinary committees of the clearing organization that take disciplinary action via formal disciplinary processes.
(5) Whether and how the clearing organization articulates its rationale for disciplinary decisions.
(6) The sanctions for particular violations and a discussion of the adequacy of sanctions with respect to the violations committed and their effectiveness as deterrents to future violations.
Attach, as
Exhibit F-4,
the following, to the extent not provided in Exhibit F-2:
A demonstration that the clearing organization is authorized by rule or contractual agreement to obtain, from members and other participants, any information and cooperation necessary to conduct investigations, to effectively enforce its rules, and to ensure compliance with the conditions of registration.

# EXHIBIT G—INFORMATION SHARING AGREEMENTS AMONG THE COMMISSION, THE FOREIGN BOARD OF TRADE, THE CLEARING ORGANIZATION, AND RELEVANT REGULATORY AUTHORITIES
Attach, as
Exhibit G,
the following:
(1) A description of the arrangements among the Commission, the foreign board of trade, the clearing organization, and the relevant foreign regulatory authorities that govern the sharing of information regarding the transactions that will be executed pursuant to the foreign board of trade's registration with the Commission and the clearing and settlement of those transactions. This description should address or identify whether and how the foreign board of trade, clearing organization, and the regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization agree to provide directly to the Commission information and documentation requested by Commission staff that Commission staff determines is needed:
(i) To evaluate the continued eligibility of the foreign board of trade for registration.
(ii) To enforce compliance with the specified conditions of the registration.
(iii) To enable the CFTC to carry out its duties under the Act and Commission regulations and to provide adequate protection to the public or registered entities.
(iv) To respond to potential market abuse associated with trading by direct access on the registered foreign board of trade.
(v) To enable Commission staff to effectively accomplish its surveillance responsibilities with respect to a registered entity where Commission staff, in its discretion, determines that a contract traded on a registered foreign board of trade may affect such ability.
(2) A statement as to whether the regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization are signatories to the International Organization of Securities Commissions Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding. If not, describe any substitute information-sharing arrangements that are in place.
(3) A statement as to whether the regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization are signatories to the Declaration on Cooperation and Supervision of International Futures Exchanges and Clearing Organizations. If not, a statement as to whether and how they have committed to share the types of information contemplated by the International Information Sharing Memorandum of Understanding and Agreement with the Commission, whether pursuant to an existing memorandum of understanding or some other arrangement.

# EXHIBIT H—ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTATION
Attach, as
Exhibit H,
any additional information or documentation necessary to demonstrate that the requirements for registration applicable to the clearing organization or clearing system set forth in Commission regulation 48.7 are satisfied.
Pt. 49

# PART 49—SWAP DATA REPOSITORIES
Sec.
49.1
Scope.
49.2
Definitions.
49.3
Procedures for registration.
49.4
Withdrawal from registration.
49.5
Equity interest transfers.
49.6
Request for transfer of registration.
49.7
Swap data repositories located in foreign jurisdictions.
49.8
Procedures for implementing swap data repository rules.
49.9
Open swaps reports provided to the Commission.
49.10
Acceptance and validation of data.
49.11
Verification of swap data accuracy.
49.12
Swap data repository recordkeeping requirements.
49.13
Monitoring, screening and analyzing swap data.
49.14
Monitoring, screening and analyzing end-user clearing exemption claims by individual and affiliated entities.
49.15
Real-time public reporting by swap data repositories.
49.16
Privacy and confidentiality requirements of swap data repositories.
49.17
Access to SDR data.
49.18
Confidentiality arrangement.
49.19
Core principles applicable to swap data repositories.
49.20
Governance arrangements (Core Principle 2).
49.21
Conflicts of interest (Core Principle 3).
49.22
Chief compliance officer.
49.23
Emergency policies and procedures.
49.24
System safeguards.
49.25
Financial resources.
49.26
Disclosure requirements of swap data repositories.
49.27
Access and fees.
49.28
Operating hours of swap data repositories.
49.29
Information relating to swap data repository compliance.
49.30
Form and manner of reporting and submitting information to the Commission.
49.31
Delegation of authority to the Directors of the Division of Market Oversight and Division of Data relating to certain part 49 matters.
Appendix A to Part 49—Form SDR
Appendix B to Part 49—Confidentiality Arrangement for Appropriate Domestic Regulators and Appropriate Foreign Regulators to Obtain Access to Swap Data Maintained by Swap Data Respositories Pursuant to §§ 49.17(
d
)(6) and 49.18(
a

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1a, 2(a), 6r, 12a, and 24a, as amended by Title VII of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (Jul. 21, 2010), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 49 appear at 85 FR 75672, Nov. 25, 2020.
§ 49.1
Scope.
The provisions of this part apply to any swap data repository as defined under Section 1a(48) of the Act which is registered or is required to register as such with the Commission pursuant to Section 21(a) of the Act.
§ 49.2
Definitions.
(a) As used in this part:
Affiliate
means a person that directly, or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the swap data repository.
As soon as technologically practicable
means as soon as possible, taking into consideration the prevalence, implementation, and use of technology by comparable market participants.
Asset class
means a broad category of commodities including, without limitation, any “excluded commodity” as defined in section 1a(19) of the Act, with common characteristics underlying a swap. The asset classes include interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity, other commodity, and such other asset classes as may be determined by the Commission.
Commercial use
means the use of SDR data held and maintained by a swap data repository for a profit or business purposes. A swap data repository's use of SDR data for regulatory purposes and/or to perform its regulatory responsibilities would not be considered a commercial use regardless of whether the swap data repository charges a fee for reporting such SDR data.
Control
(including the terms “
controlled by”
and “
under common control with”
) means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.
Data validation acceptance message
means a notification that SDR data satisfied the data validation procedures applied by a swap data repository.
Data validation error
means that a specific data element of SDR data did not satisfy the data validation procedures applied by a swap data repository.
Data validation error message
means a notification that SDR data contained one or more data validation error(s).
Data validation procedures
procedures established by a swap data repository
pursuant to § 49.10 to validate SDR data reported to the swap data repository.
Foreign regulator
means a foreign futures authority as defined in section 1a(26) of the Act, foreign financial supervisors, foreign central banks, foreign ministries, and other foreign authorities.
Independent perspective
means a viewpoint that is impartial regarding competitive, commercial, or industry concerns and contemplates the effect of a decision on all constituencies involved.
Market participant
means any person participating in the swap market, including, but not limited to, designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, swap execution facilities, swap dealers, major swap participants, and any other counterparty to a swap transaction.
Non-affiliated third party
means any person except:
(1) The swap data repository;
(2) The swap data repository's affiliate; or
(3) A person jointly employed by a swap data repository and any entity that is not the swap data repository's affiliate (the term “non-affiliated third party” includes such entity that jointly employs the person).
Open swap
means an executed swap transaction that has not reached maturity or expiration, and has not been fully exercised, closed out, or terminated.
Person associated with a swap data repository
means:
(1) Any partner, officer, or director of such swap data repository (or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions);
(2) Any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such swap data repository; or
(3) Any person employed by such swap data repository, including a jointly employed person.
Position
means the gross and net notional amounts of open swap transactions aggregated by one or more attributes, including, but not limited to, the:
(1) Underlying instrument;
(2) Index, or reference entity;
(3) Counterparty;
(4) Asset class;
(5) Long risk of the underlying instrument, index, or reference entity; and
(6) Short risk of the underlying instrument, index, or reference entity.
Reporting counterparty
means the counterparty required to report SDR data pursuant to part 43, 45, or 46 of this chapter.
SDR data
means the specific data elements and information required to be reported to a swap data repository or disseminated by a swap data repository pursuant to two or more of parts 43, 45, 46, and/or 49 of this chapter, as applicable in the context.
SDR information
means any information that the swap data repository receives or maintains related to the business of the swap data repository that is not SDR data.
Section 8 material
means the business transactions, SDR data, or market positions of any person and trade secrets or names of customers.
Swap data
means the specific data elements and information required to be reported to a swap data repository pursuant to part 45 of this chapter or made available to the Commission pursuant to this part, as applicable.
Swap transaction and pricing data
means the specific data elements and information required to be reported to a swap data repository or publicly disseminated by a swap data repository pursuant to part 43 of this chapter, as applicable.
(b)
Other defined terms.
Terms not defined in this part have the meanings assigned to the terms in § 1.3 of this chapter.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 83 FR 27436, June 12, 2018; 85 FR 75595, 75656, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.3
Procedures for registration.
(a)
Application procedures.
(1) An applicant, person or entity desiring to be registered as a swap data repository shall file electronically an application for registration on Form SDR provided in appendix A to this part, with the Secretary of the Commission at its headquarters in Washington, DC in a format and in the manner specified by the Secretary of the Commission in accordance with the instructions contained therein.
(2) The application shall include information sufficient to demonstrate compliance with core principles specified in Section 21 of the Act and the regulations thereunder. Form SDR consists of instructions, general questions and a list of Exhibits (documents, information and evidence) required by the Commission in order to determine whether an applicant is able to comply with the core principles. An application will not be considered to be materially complete unless the applicant has submitted, at a minimum, the exhibits as required in Form SDR. If the application is not materially complete, the Commission shall notify the applicant that the application will not be deemed to have been submitted for purposes of the 180-day review procedures.
(3)
180-Day review procedures.
The Commission will review the application for registration as a swap data repository within 180 days of the date of the filing of such application. In considering an application for registration as a swap data repository, the staff of the Commission shall include in its review, an applicant's past relevant submissions and compliance history. At or prior to the conclusion of the 180-day period, the Commission will either by order grant registration; extend, by order, the 180-day review period for good cause; or deny the application for registration as a swap data repository. The 180-day review period shall commence once a completed submission on Form SDR is submitted to the Commission. The determination of when such submission on Form SDR is complete shall be at the sole discretion of the Commission. If deemed appropriate, the Commission may grant registration as a swap data repository subject to conditions. If the Commission denies an application for registration as a swap data repository, it shall specify the grounds for such denial. In the event of a denial of registration for a swap data repository, any person so denied shall be afforded an opportunity for a hearing before the Commission.
(4)
Standard for approval.
The Commission shall grant the registration of a swap data repository if the Commission finds that such swap data repository is appropriately organized, and has the capacity: to ensure the prompt, accurate and reliable performance of its functions as a swap data repository; comply with any applicable provisions of the Act and regulations thereunder; carry out its functions in a manner consistent with the purposes of Section 21 of the Act and the regulations thereunder; and operate in a fair, equitable and consistent manner. The Commission shall deny registration of a swap data repository if it appears that the application is materially incomplete; fails in form or substance to meet the requirements of Section 21 of the Act and part 49; or is amended or supplemented in a manner that is inconsistent with this § 49.3. The Commission shall notify the applicant seeking registration that the Commission is denying the application setting forth the deficiencies in the application, and/or the manner in which the application fails to meet the requirements of this part.
(5)
Amendments.
If any information reported on Form SDR or in any amendment thereto is or becomes inaccurate for any reason, whether before or after the application for registration has been granted under this paragraph (a), the swap data repository shall promptly file an amendment on Form SDR updating such information.
(6)
Service of process.
Each swap data repository shall designate and authorize on Form SDR an agent in the United States, other than a Commission official, who shall accept any notice or service of process, pleadings, or other documents in any action or proceedings brought against the swap data repository to enforce the Act and the regulations thereunder.
(b)
Provisional registration.
The Commission, upon the request of an applicant, may grant provisional registration of a swap data repository if such applicant is in substantial compliance with the standards set forth in paragraph (a)(4) of this section and is able to demonstrate operational capability, real-time processing, multiple redundancy and robust security controls. Such provisional registration of a swap data repository shall expire on the earlier of: the date that the Commission grants or denies registration of the swap data repository; or the date that
the Commission rescinds the temporary registration of the swap data repository. This paragraph (b) shall terminate within such time as determined by the Commission. A provisional registration granted by the Commission does not affect the right of the Commission to grant or deny permanent registration as provided under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(c)
Withdrawal of application for registration.
An applicant for registration may withdraw its application submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section by filing with the Commission such a request. Withdrawal of an application for registration shall not affect any action taken or to be taken by the Commission based upon actions, activities, or events occurring during the time that the application for registration was pending with the Commission, and shall not prejudice the filing of a new application by such applicant.
(d)
Reinstatement of dormant registration.
Before accepting or re-accepting SDR data, a dormant swap data repository as defined in § 40.1 of this chapter shall reinstate its registration under the procedures set forth in paragraph (a) of this section; provided, however, that an application for reinstatement may rely upon previously submitted materials that still pertain to, and accurately describe, current conditions.
(e)
Delegation of authority.
(1) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or the Director's delegates, with the consultation of the General Counsel or the General Counsel's delegates, the authority to notify an applicant seeking registration as a swap data repository pursuant to Section 21 of the Act that the application is materially incomplete and the 180-day period review period is extended.
(2) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated in this paragraph.
(3) Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f)
Request for confidential treatment.
An applicant for registration may request confidential treatment for materials submitted in its application as set forth in §§ 40.8 and 145.9 of this chapter. The applicant shall identify with particularity information in the application that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75657, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.4
Withdrawal from registration.
(a)(1) A swap data repository may withdraw its registration by giving notice in writing to the Commission requesting that its registration as a swap data repository be withdrawn. Such notice shall be served at least 60 days prior to the date named therein as the date when the withdrawal of registration shall take effect. The request to withdraw shall be made by a person duly authorized by the swap data repository and shall specify:
(i) The name of the swap data repository for which withdrawal of registration is being requested;
(ii) The name, address and telephone number of the swap data repository that will have custody of data and records of the swap data repository; and
(iii) The address where such data and records will be located.
(2) Prior to filing a request to withdraw, a swap data repository shall execute an agreement with the custodial swap data repository governing the custody of the withdrawing swap data repository's data and records. The custodial swap data repository shall retain such records for at least as long as the remaining period of time the swap data repository withdrawing from registration would have been required to retain such records pursuant to this part.
(b) A notice of withdrawal from registration filed by a swap data repository shall become effective for all matters (except as provided in this paragraph (b)) on the 60th day after the filing thereof with the Commission, within such longer period of time as to which such swap data repository consents or which the Commission, by order, may determine as necessary or appropriate in the public interest.
(c)
Revocation of registration for false application.
If, after notice and opportunity for hearing, the Commission finds that any swap data repository has obtained its registration by making any false or misleading statements with respect to any material fact or has violated or failed to comply with any provision of the Act and regulations thereunder, the Commission, by order, may revoke the registration. Pending final determination whether any registration shall be revoked, the Commission, by order, may suspend such registration, if such suspension appears to the Commission, after notice and opportunity for hearing, to be necessary or appropriate and in the public interest.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75595, 75657, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.5
Equity interest transfers.
(a)
Equity interest transfer notification.
A swap data repository shall file with the Commission a notification of each transaction involving the direct or indirect transfer of ten percent or more of the equity interest in the swap data repository. The Commission may, upon receiving such notification, request that the swap data repository provide supporting documentation of the transaction.
(b)
Timing of notification.
The equity interest transfer notice described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters at
submissions@cftc.gov
and the Division of Market Oversight at
DMOSubmissions@cftc.gov,
at the earliest possible time but in no event later than the open of business ten business days following the date upon which a firm obligation is made to transfer, directly or indirectly, ten percent or more of the equity interest in the swap data repository.
(c)
Certification.
Upon a transfer, whether directly or indirectly, of an equity interest of ten percent or more in a swap data repository, the swap data repository shall file electronically with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters at
submissions@cftc.gov
and the Division of Market Oversight at
DMOSubmissions@cftc.gov,
a certification that the swap data repository meets all of the requirements of section 21 of the Act and the Commission regulations in 17 CFR chapter I, no later than two business days following the date on which the equity interest of ten percent or more was acquired.
[85 FR 75657, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.6
Request for transfer of registration.
(a)
Request for approval.
A swap data repository seeking to transfer its registration from its current legal entity to a new legal entity as a result of a corporate change shall file a request for approval to transfer such registration with the Secretary of the Commission in the form and manner specified by the Commission.
(b)
Timing for filing a request for transfer of registration.
A swap data repository shall file a request for transfer of registration as soon as practicable prior to the anticipated corporate change.
(c)
Required information.
The request for transfer of registration shall include the following:
(1) The underlying documentation that governs the corporate change;
(2) A description of the corporate change, including the reason for the change and its impact on the swap data repository, including the swap data repository's governance and operations, and its impact on the rights and obligations of market participants;
(3) A discussion of the transferee's ability to comply with the Act, including the core principles applicable to swap data repositories and the Commission's regulations;
(4) The governance documents adopted by the transferee, including a copy of any constitution; articles or certificate of incorporation, organization, formation, or association with all amendments thereto; partnership or limited liability agreements; and any existing bylaws, operating agreement, or rules or instruments corresponding thereto;
(5) The transferee's rules marked to show changes from the current rules of the swap data repository; and
(6) A representation by the transferee that it:
(i) Will be the surviving entity and successor-in-interest to the transferor swap data repository and will retain and assume the assets and liabilities of the transferor, except if otherwise indicated in the request;
(ii) Will assume responsibility for complying with all applicable provisions of the Act and the Commission's regulations; and
(iii) Will notify market participants of all changes to the transferor's rulebook prior to the transfer, including those changes that may affect the rights and obligations of market participants, and will further notify market participants of the concurrent transfer of the registration to the transferee upon Commission approval and issuance of an order permitting the transfer.
(d)
Commission determination.
Upon review of a request for transfer of registration, the Commission, as soon as practicable, shall issue an order either approving or denying the request for transfer of registration.
[85 FR 75657, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.7
Swap data repositories located in foreign jurisdictions.
Any swap data repository located outside of the United States applying for registration pursuant to § 49.3 of this part shall certify on Form SDR and provide an opinion of counsel that the swap data repository, as a matter of law, is able to provide the Commission with prompt access to the books and records of such swap data repository and that the swap data repository can submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission.
§ 49.8
Procedures for implementing swap data repository rules.
(a)
Request for Commission approval of rules.
An applicant for registration as a swap data repository may request that the Commission approve under Section 5c(c) of the Act, any or all of its rules and subsequent amendments thereto, prior to their implementation or, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5c(c)(2) of the Act, at anytime thereafter, under the procedures of § 40.5 of this chapter.
(b) Notwithstanding the timeline under § 40.5(c) of this chapter, the rules of a swap data repository that have been submitted for Commission approval at the same time as an application for registration under § 49.3 of this part or to reinstate the registration of a dormant swap data repository, as defined in § 40.1 of this chapter, will be deemed approved by the Commission no earlier than when the swap data repository is deemed to be registered or reinstated.
(c)
Self-certification of rules.
Rules of a swap data repository not voluntarily submitted for prior Commission approval pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must be submitted to the Commission with a certification that the rule or rule amendment complies with the Act or rules thereunder pursuant to the procedures of § 40.6 of this chapter, as applicable.
§ 49.9
Open swaps reports provided to the Commission.
Each swap data repository shall provide reports of open swaps to the Commission in accordance with this section.
(a)
Content of the open swaps report.
In order to satisfy the requirements of this section, each swap data repository shall provide the Commission with open swaps reports that contain an accurate reflection, as of the time the swap data repository compiles the open swaps report, of the swap data maintained by the swap data repository for every swap data field required to be reported for swaps pursuant to part 45 of this chapter for every open swap. The report shall be organized by the unique identifier created pursuant to § 45.5 of this chapter that is associated with each open swap.
(b)
Transmission of the open swaps report.
Each swap data repository shall transmit all open swaps reports to the Commission as instructed by the Commission. Such instructions may include, but are not limited to, the method, timing, and frequency of transmission, as well as the format of the swap data to be transmitted.
[85 FR 75657, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.10
Acceptance and validation of data.
(a)
General requirements
—(1)
Generally.
A swap data repository shall establish,
maintain, and enforce policies and procedures reasonably designed to facilitate the complete and accurate reporting of SDR data. A swap data repository shall promptly accept, validate, and record SDR data.
(2)
Electronic connectivity.
For the purpose of accepting SDR data, the swap data repository shall adopt policies and procedures, including technological protocols, which provide for electronic connectivity between the swap data repository and designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, swap execution facilities, swap dealers, major swap participants and non-SD/MSP/DCO reporting counterparties who report such data. The technological protocols established by a swap data repository shall provide for the receipt of SDR data. The swap data repository shall ensure that its mechanisms for SDR data acceptance are reliable and secure.
(b)
Duty to accept SDR data.
A swap data repository shall set forth in its application for registration as described in § 49.3 the specific asset class or classes for which it will accept SDR data. If a swap data repository accepts SDR data of a particular asset class, then it shall accept SDR data from all swaps of that asset class, unless otherwise prescribed by the Commission.
(c)
Duty to validate SDR data.
A swap data repository shall validate SDR data as soon as technologically practicable after such data is accepted according to the validation conditions approved in writing by the Commission. A swap data repository shall validate SDR data by providing data validation acceptance messages and data validation error messages, as provided in this paragraph (c).
(1)
Data validation acceptance message.
A swap data repository shall validate each SDR data report submitted to the swap data repository and notify the reporting counterparty, swap execution facility, designated contract market, or third-party service provider submitting the report whether the report satisfied the data validation procedures of the swap data repository as soon as technologically practicable after accepting the SDR data report.
(2)
Data validation error message.
If SDR data contains one or more data validation errors, the swap data repository shall distribute a data validation error message to the designated contract market, swap execution facility, reporting counterparty, or third-party service provider that submitted such SDR data as soon as technologically practicable after acceptance of such data. Each data validation error message shall indicate which specific data validation error(s) was identified in the SDR data.
(3)
Swap transaction and pricing data submitted with swap data.
If a swap data repository allows for the joint submission of swap transaction and pricing data and swap data, the swap data repository shall validate the swap transaction and pricing data and swap data separately. Swap transaction and pricing data that satisfies the data validation procedures applied by a swap data repository shall not be deemed to contain a data validation error because it was submitted to the swap data repository jointly with swap data that contained a data validation error.
(d)
Policies and procedures to prevent invalidation or modification.
A swap data repository shall establish policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent any provision in a valid swap from being invalidated or modified through the verification or recording process of the swap data repository. The policies and procedures shall ensure that the swap data repository's user agreements are designed to prevent any such invalidation or modification.
(e)
Error corrections
—(1)
Accepting corrections.
A swap data repository shall accept error corrections for SDR data. Error corrections include corrections to errors and omissions in SDR data previously reported to the swap data repository pursuant to part 43, 45, or 46 of this chapter, as well as omissions in reporting SDR data for swaps that were not previously reported to a swap data repository as required under part 43, 45, or 46 of this chapter. The requirement to accept error corrections applies for all swaps, regardless of the state of the swap that is the subject of the SDR data. This includes swaps that have terminated, matured, or are otherwise no longer considered to be open swaps, provided that the record retention period under § 49.12(b)(2) has not expired
as of the time the error correction is reported.
(2)
Recording corrections.
A swap data repository shall record the corrections, as soon as technologically practicable after the swap data repository accepts the error correction.
(3)
Dissemination.
A swap data repository shall disseminate corrected SDR data to the public and the Commission, as applicable, in accordance with this chapter, as soon as technologically practicable after the swap data repository records the corrected SDR data.
(4)
Policies and procedures.
A swap data repository shall establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures designed for the swap data repository to accept error corrections, to record the error corrections as soon as technologically practicable after the swap data repository accepts the error correction, and to disseminate corrected SDR data to the public and to the Commission, as applicable, in accordance with this chapter.
(f)
Policies and procedures for resolving disputes regarding data accuracy.
A swap data repository shall establish procedures and provide facilities for effectively resolving disputes over the accuracy of the SDR data and positions that are recorded in the swap data repository.
[85 FR 75595, Nov. 25, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 75657, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.11
Verification of swap data accuracy.
(a)
General requirement.
Each swap data repository shall verify the accuracy and completeness of swap data that it receives from swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, reporting counterparties, or third-party service providers acting on their behalf, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Verifying swap data accuracy and completeness
—(1)
Swap data access.
Each swap data repository shall provide a mechanism that allows each reporting counterparty that is a user of the swap data repository to access all swap data maintained by the swap data repository for each open swap for which the reporting counterparty is serving as the reporting counterparty, as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. This mechanism shall allow sufficient access, provide sufficient information, and be in a form and manner to enable each reporting counterparty to perform swap data verification as required under § 45.14 of this chapter.
(2)
Scope of swap data access.
The swap data accessible through the mechanism provided by each swap data repository shall accurately reflect the most current swap data maintained by the swap data repository, as of the time the reporting counterparty accesses the swap data using the provided mechanism, for each data field that the reporting counterparty was required to report for each relevant open swap pursuant to part 45 of this chapter, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The swap data accessible through the mechanism provided by each swap data repository shall include sufficient information to allow reporting counterparties to successfully perform the swap data verification required under § 45.14 of this chapter.
(3)
Confidentiality.
The swap data access each swap data repository shall provide pursuant to this section is subject to all applicable confidentiality requirements of the Act and this chapter, including, but not limited to, § 49.17. The swap data accessible to any reporting counterparty shall not include any swap data that the relevant reporting counterparty is prohibited to access under any Commission regulation.
(4)
Frequency of swap data access.
Each swap data repository shall allow each reporting counterparty that is a user of the relevant swap data repository to utilize the mechanism as required under this section with at least sufficient frequency to allow each relevant reporting counterparty to perform the swap data verification required under § 45.14 of this chapter.
(5)
Third-party service providers.
If a reporting counterparty informs a swap data repository that the reporting counterparty will utilize a third-party service provider to perform verification as required pursuant to § 45.14 of this chapter, the swap data repository will satisfy its requirements under this section by providing the third-party service provider with the same access to the mechanism and the relevant swap data for the reporting counterparty
under this section, as if the third-party service provider was the reporting counterparty. The access for the third-party service provider shall be in addition to the access for the reporting counterparty required under this section. The access for the third-party service provider under this paragraph shall continue until the reporting counterparty informs the swap data repository that the third-party service provider should no longer have access on behalf of the reporting counterparty. The policies and procedures each swap data repository adopts under paragraph (c) of this section shall include instructions detailing how each reporting counterparty can successfully inform the swap data repository regarding a third-party service provider.
(c)
Policies and procedures
—(1)
Contents.
Each swap data repository shall establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section. Such policies and procedures shall include, but are not limited to, instructions detailing how each reporting counterparty, or third-party service provider acting on behalf of a reporting counterparty, can successfully utilize the mechanism provided pursuant to this section to perform each reporting counterparty's verification responsibilities under § 45.14 of this chapter.
(2)
Amendments.
Each swap data repository shall comply with the requirements under part 40 of this chapter in adopting or amending the policies and procedures required by this section.
[85 FR 75658, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.12
Swap data repository recordkeeping requirements.
(a)
General requirement.
A swap data repository shall keep full, complete, and systematic records, together with all pertinent data and memoranda, of all activities relating to the business of the swap data repository, including, but not limited to, all SDR information and all SDR data that is reported to the swap data repository pursuant to this chapter.
(b)
Maintenance of records.
A swap data repository shall maintain all records required to be kept by this section in accordance with this paragraph (b).
(1) A swap data repository shall maintain all SDR information, including, but not limited to, all documents, policies, and procedures required by the Act and the Commission's regulations, correspondence, memoranda, papers, books, notices, accounts, and other such records made or received by the swap data repository in the course of its business. All SDR information shall be maintained in accordance with § 1.31 of this chapter.
(2) A swap data repository shall maintain all SDR data and timestamps reported to or created by the swap data repository pursuant to this chapter, and all messages related to such reporting, throughout the existence of the swap that is the subject of the SDR data and for five years following final termination of the swap, during which time the records shall be readily accessible by the swap data repository and available to the Commission via real-time electronic access, and for a period of at least ten additional years in archival storage from which such records are retrievable by the swap data repository within three business days.
(c)
Records of data errors and omissions.
A swap data repository shall create and maintain records of data validation errors and SDR data reporting errors and omissions in accordance with this paragraph (c).
(1) A swap data repository shall create and maintain an accurate record of all reported SDR data that fails to satisfy the swap data repository's data validation procedures including, but not limited to, all SDR data reported to the swap data repository that fails to satisfy the data validation procedures, all data validation errors, and all related messages and timestamps. A swap data repository shall make these records available to the Commission on request.
(2) A swap data repository shall create and maintain an accurate record of all SDR data errors and omissions reported to the swap data repository and all corrections disseminated by the swap data repository pursuant to parts 43, 45, and 46 of this chapter and this part. A swap data repository shall
make these records available to the Commission on request.
(d)
Availability of records.
All records required to be kept pursuant to this part shall be open to inspection upon request by any representative of the Commission or the United States Department of Justice in accordance with the provisions of § 1.31 of this chapter. A swap data repository required to keep, create, or maintain records pursuant to this section shall provide such records in accordance with the provisions of § 1.31 of this chapter, unless otherwise provided in this part.
(e) A swap data repository shall establish policies and procedures to calculate positions for position limits and any other purpose as required by the Commission, for all persons with swaps that have not expired maintained by the swap data repository.
[85 FR 75658, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.13
Monitoring, screening and analyzing swap data.
(a)
Duty to monitor, screen and analyze SDR data.
A swap data repository shall monitor, screen, and analyze all relevant SDR data in its possession in such a manner as the Commission may require. A swap data repository shall routinely monitor, screen, and analyze SDR data for the purpose of any standing swap surveillance objectives that the Commission may establish as well as perform specific monitoring, screening, and analysis tasks based on ad hoc requests by the Commission.
(b)
Capacity to monitor, screen and analyze SDR data.
A swap data repository shall establish and maintain sufficient information technology, staff, and other resources to fulfill the requirements in this § 49.13 in a manner prescribed by the Commission. A swap data repository shall monitor the sufficiency of such resources at least annually, and adjust its resources as its responsibilities, or the volume of swap transactions subject to monitoring, screening, and analysis, increase.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75659, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.14
Monitoring, screening and analyzing end-user clearing exemption claims by individual and affiliated entities.
A swap data repository shall have automated systems capable of identifying, aggregating, sorting, and filtering all swap transactions that are reported to it which are exempt from clearing pursuant to Section 2(h)(7) of the Act. Such capabilities shall be applicable to any information provided to a swap data repository by or on behalf of an end user regarding how such end user meets the requirements of Sections 2(h)(7)(A)(i), 2(h)(7)(A)(ii), and 2(h)(7)(A)(iii) of the Act and any Commission regulations thereunder.
§ 49.15
Real-time public reporting by swap data repositories.
(a)
Scope.
The provisions of this section apply to the real-time public reporting of swap transaction and pricing data submitted to a swap data repository pursuant to part 43 of this chapter.
(b)
Systems to accept and disseminate data in connection with real-time public reporting.
A swap data repository shall establish such electronic systems as are necessary to accept and publicly disseminate swap transaction and pricing data submitted to the swap data repository pursuant to part 43 of this chapter in order to meet the real-time public reporting obligations of part 43 of this chapter. Any electronic system established for this purpose shall be capable of accepting and ensuring the public dissemination of all data fields required by part 43 this chapter.
(c)
Duty to notify the Commission of untimely data.
A swap data repository shall notify the Commission of any swap transaction for which the real-time swap data was not received by the swap data repository in accordance with part 43 of this chapter.
[85 FR 75659, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.16
Privacy and confidentiality requirements of swap data repositories.
(a) Each swap data repository shall:
(1) Establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to protect the privacy and confidentiality of any and all SDR
information and all SDR data that is not swap transaction and pricing data disseminated under part 43 of this chapter. Such policies and procedures shall include, but are not limited to, policies and procedures to protect the privacy and confidentiality of any and all SDR information and all SDR data (except for swap transaction and pricing data disseminated under part 43 of this chapter) that the swap data repository shares with affiliates and non-affiliated third parties; and
(2) Establish and maintain safeguards, policies, and procedures reasonably designed to prevent the misappropriation or misuse, directly or indirectly, of:
(i) Section 8 material;
(ii) Other SDR information or SDR data; and/or
(iii) Intellectual property, such as trading strategies or portfolio positions, by the swap data repository or any person associated with a swap data repository. Such safeguards, policies, and procedures shall include, but are not limited to:
(A) Limiting access to such section 8 material, other SDR information or SDR data, and intellectual property;
(B) Standards controlling persons associated with a swap data repository trading for their personal benefit or the benefit of others; and
(C) Adequate oversight to ensure compliance with this paragraph (a)(2).
(b) A swap data repository shall not, as a condition of accepting SDR data from any swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty, require the waiver of any privacy rights by such swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty.
(c) Subject to section 8 of the Act, a swap data repository may disclose aggregated SDR data on a voluntary basis or as requested, in the form and manner prescribed by the Commission.
[85 FR 75659, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.17
Access to SDR data.
(a)
Purpose.
This section provides a procedure by which the Commission, other domestic regulators and foreign regulators may obtain access to the SDR data held and maintained by registered SDR data repositories. Except as specifically set forth in this section, the Commission's duties and obligations regarding the confidentiality of business transactions or market positions of any person and trade secrets or names of customers identified in section 8 of the Act are not affected.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this § 49.17, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
(1)
Appropriate domestic regulator.
The term “
appropriate domestic regulator”
shall mean:
(i) The Securities and Exchange Commission;
(ii) Each prudential regulator identified in Section 1a(39) of the Act with respect to requests related to any of such regulator's statutory authorities, without limitation to the activities listed for each regulator in Section 1a(39);
(iii) The Financial Stability Oversight Council;
(iv) The Department of Justice;
(v) Any Federal Reserve Bank;
(vi) The Office of Financial Research; and
(vii) Any other person the Commission determines to be appropriate pursuant to the process set forth in paragraph (h) of this section.
(2)
Appropriate foreign regulator.
The term “
appropriate foreign regulator”
shall mean those foreign regulators the Commission determines to be appropriate pursuant to the process set forth in paragraph (h) of this section.
(3)
Direct electronic access.
For the purposes of this section, the term “
direct electronic access”
shall mean an electronic system, platform, framework, or other technology that provides internet-based or other form of access to real-time SDR data that is acceptable to the Commission and also provides scheduled data transfers to Commission electronic systems.
(c)
Commission access.
A swap data repository shall provide access to the Commission for all SDR data maintained by the swap data repository pursuant to this chapter in accordance with this paragraph (c).
(1)
Direct electronic access requirements.
A swap data repository shall provide direct electronic access to the
Commission or the Commission's designee, including another registered entity, in order for the Commission to carry out its legal and statutory responsibilities under the Act and the Commission's regulations in 17 CFR chapter I. A swap data repository shall maintain all SDR data reported to the swap data repository in a format acceptable to the Commission, and shall transmit all SDR data requested by the Commission to the Commission as instructed by the Commission. Such instructions may include, but are not limited to, the method, timing, and frequency of transmission, as well as the format and scope of the SDR data to be transmitted.
(2)
Monitoring tools.
A swap data repository is required to provide the Commission with proper tools for the monitoring, screening and analyzing of SDR data, including, but not limited to, Web-based services, services that provide automated transfer of SDR data to Commission systems, various software and access to the staff of the swap data repository and/or third-party service providers or agents familiar with the operations of the swap data repository, which can provide assistance to the Commission regarding data structure and content.
(3)
Authorized users.
The SDR data provided to the Commission by a swap data repository shall be accessible only by authorized users. The swap data repository shall maintain and provide a list of authorized users in the manner and frequency determined by the Commission.
(d)
Other regulators
—(1)
General procedure for gaining access to swap data repository data.
Except as set forth in paragraph (d)(2) or (3) of this section—
(i) A person who is not an appropriate domestic regulator or an appropriate foreign regulator and who seeks to gain access to the swap data maintained by a swap data repository is required to first become an appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator through the process set forth in paragraph (h) of this section, and
(ii) Appropriate domestic regulators and appropriate foreign regulators seeking to gain access to the swap data maintained by a swap data repository are required to apply for access by filing a request for access with the swap data repository and certifying that it is acting within the scope of its jurisdiction, comply with paragraph (d)(6) of this section prior to receiving such access and, if applicable after receiving such access, comply with the notification requirement in paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section applicable to appropriate domestic regulators and appropriate foreign regulators.
(2)
Domestic regulator with regulatory responsibility over a swap data repository.
When a swap data repository that is registered with the Commission pursuant to this chapter is also registered with a domestic regulator pursuant to a separate statutory authority, and such domestic regulator seeks access to swap data that has been reported to such swap data repository pursuant to the domestic regulator's regulatory regime, such access is not subject to the requirements of sections 21(c)(7) or 21(d) of the Act, this paragraph (d) or § 49.18.
(3)
Foreign regulator with regulatory responsibility over a swap data repository.
When a swap data repository that is registered with the Commission pursuant to this chapter is also registered with, or recognized or otherwise authorized by, a foreign regulator that has supervisory authority over such swap data repository pursuant to foreign law and/or regulation, and such foreign regulator seeks access to swap data that has been reported to such swap data repository pursuant to the foreign regulator's regulatory regime, such access is not subject to the requirements of sections 21(c)(7) or 21(d) of the Act, this paragraph (d) or § 49.18.
(4)
Obligations of the swap data repository in connection with appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator requests for swap data access.
(i) A swap data repository shall notify the Commission promptly after receiving an initial request from an appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator to gain access to swap data maintained by such swap data repository and promptly after receiving any request that does not comport with the scope of the appropriate domestic regulator's or appropriate
foreign regulator's jurisdiction, as described and appended to the confidentiality arrangement required by § 49.18(a). Each swap data repository shall maintain records thereafter, pursuant to § 49.12, of the details of such initial request and of all subsequent requests by such appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator for such access.
(ii) The swap data repository shall notify the Commission electronically, in a format specified by the Secretary of the Commission, of the receipt of a request specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section.
(iii) The swap data repository shall not provide an appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator access to swap data maintained by the swap data repository unless the swap data repository has determined that the swap data to which the appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator seeks access is within the then-current scope of such appropriate domestic regulator's or appropriate foreign regulator's jurisdiction, as described and appended to the confidentiality arrangement required by § 49.18(a). An appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator that has executed a confidentiality arrangement with the Commission pursuant to § 49.18(a) and provided such confidentiality arrangement to one or more swap data repositories shall notify the Commission and each such swap data repository of any change to such appropriate domestic regulator's or appropriate foreign regulator's scope of jurisdiction as described in such confidentiality arrangement. The Commission may direct a swap data repository to suspend, limit, or revoke access to swap data maintained by such swap data repository based on any such change to such appropriate domestic regulator's or appropriate foreign regulator's scope of jurisdiction, and, if so directed in writing, such swap data repository shall so suspend, limit, or revoke such access.
(iv) The swap data repository need not make the determination required pursuant to paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section more than once with respect to a recurring swap data request. If such request changes, the swap data repository must make a new determination pursuant to paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section.
(5)
Timing, limitation, suspension, or revocation of swap data access.
Once a swap data repository has—
(i) Notified the Commission, pursuant to paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, of an initial request for swap data access by an appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator, as applicable, that was submitted pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section,
(ii) Received from such appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator a confidentiality arrangement executed by the Commission and such appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator as required by § 49.18(a), and
(iii) Satisfied its obligations under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section, such swap data repository shall provide access to the requested swap data;
provided, however,
that such swap data repository shall, if directed by the Commission in writing, limit, suspend or revoke such access should the Commission limit, suspend or revoke the appropriateness determination for such appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator or otherwise direct the swap data repository, in writing, to limit, suspend or revoke such access.
(6)
Confidentiality arrangement.
Consistent with § 49.18(a), the appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator shall, prior to receiving access to any requested swap data, execute the form of confidentiality arrangement set out in appendix B of this part with the Commission;
provided, however,
that the Commission may, in its discretion, agree to execute a confidentiality arrangement with an appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator that is not in the form set forth in appendix B of this part, if the confidentiality arrangement is consistent with the requirements set forth in § 49.18(b).
(e)
Third-party service providers to a swap data repository.
Access to the SDR data and SDR information maintained by a swap data repository may be necessary for certain third parties that provide various technology and data-
related services to a swap data repository. Third-party access to the SDR data and SDR information maintained by a swap data repository is permissible subject to the following conditions:
(1) Both the swap data repository and the third party service provider shall have strict confidentiality procedures that protect SDR data and SDR information from improper disclosure.
(2) Prior to a swap data repository granting access to SDR data or SDR information to a third-party service provider, the third-party service provider and the swap data repository shall execute a confidentiality agreement setting forth minimum confidentiality procedures and permissible uses of the SDR data and SDR information maintained by the swap data repository that are equivalent to the privacy procedures for swap data repositories outlined in § 49.16.
(f)
Access by market participants
—(1)
General.
Access by market participants to SDR data maintained by the swap data repository is prohibited other than as set forth in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(2)
Exception.
SDR data and SDR information related to a particular swap transaction that is maintained by the swap data repository may be accessed by either counterparty to that particular swap. However, the SDR data and SDR information maintained by the swap data repository that may be accessed by either counterparty to a particular swap shall not include the identity or the legal entity identifier (as such term is used in part 45 of this chapter) of the other counterparty to the swap, or the other counterparty's clearing member for the swap, if the swap is executed anonymously on a swap execution facility or designated contract market, and cleared in accordance with §§ 1.74, 23.610, and 39.12(b)(7) of this chapter.
(g)
Commercial uses of SDR data accepted and maintained by the swap data repository prohibited.
SDR data accepted and maintained by the swap data repository generally may not be used for commercial or business purposes by the swap data repository or any of its affiliated entities.
(1) The swap data repository is required to adopt and implement adequate “firewalls” or controls to protect the reported SDR data required to be maintained under § 49.12 of this part and Section 21(b) of the Act from any improper commercial use.
(2)
Exception.
(A) The swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty that submits the SDR data maintained by the swap data repository may permit the commercial or business use of that data by express written consent.
(B) Swap data repositories shall not as a condition of the reporting of SDR data require a swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty to consent to the use of any reported SDR data for commercial or business purposes.
(3) Swap data repositories responsible for the public dissemination of swap transaction and pricing data shall not make commercial use of such data prior to its public dissemination.
(h)
Appropriateness determination process.
(1) Each person seeking an appropriateness determination pursuant to this paragraph shall file an application with the Commission.
(2) Each applicant seeking an appropriateness determination shall provide sufficient detail in its application to permit the Commission to analyze whether the applicant is acting within the scope of its jurisdiction in seeking access to swap data maintained by a swap data repository, and whether the applicant employs appropriate confidentiality safeguards to ensure that any swap data such applicant receives from a swap data repository will not, except as allowed for in the form of confidentiality arrangement set forth in appendix B to this part 49, be disclosed.
(3) If the Commission determines that an applicant pursuant to this paragraph is, conditionally or unconditionally, appropriate for purposes of section 21(c)(7) of the Act, the Commission shall issue an order setting forth its appropriateness determination. The Commission shall not determine that an applicant pursuant to this paragraph is appropriate unless the Commission is satisfied that—
(i) The applicant employs appropriate confidentiality safeguards to ensure that any swap data such applicant receives from a swap data repository will not be disclosed, except as allowed for in the form of confidentiality arrangement set forth in appendix B to this part 49 or, in the Commission's discretion as set forth in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, in a different form, provided that such confidentiality arrangement contains the elements required in § 49.18(b), and
(ii) Such applicant is acting within the scope of its jurisdiction in seeking access to swap data from a swap data repository.
(4) The Commission reserves the right, in connection with any appropriateness determination with respect to an appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator, to revisit, reassess, limit, suspend or revoke such determination consistent with the Act.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 83 FR 27436, June 12, 2018; 85 FR 75659, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.18
Confidentiality arrangement.
(a)
Confidentiality arrangement required prior to disclosure of swap data by a swap data repository to an appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator.
Prior to a swap data repository providing access to swap data to any appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator, each as defined in § 49.17(b), the swap data repository shall receive from such appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator, pursuant to Section 21(d) of the Act, an executed confidentiality arrangement between the Commission and the appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator, as applicable, in the form set forth in appendix B to this part 49 or, in the Commission's discretion as set forth in § 49.17(d)(6), in a different form, provided that such confidentiality arrangement contains the elements required in paragraph (b) of this section. Such confidentiality arrangement must include, either as Exhibit A to the form set forth in appendix B of this part or similarly appended, a description of the appropriate domestic regulator's or appropriate foreign regulator's jurisdiction. Once a swap data repository is notified, in writing, that a confidentiality arrangement received from an appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator no longer is in effect, the swap data repository shall not provide access to swap data to such appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator.
(b)
Elements of confidentiality arrangement.
The confidentiality arrangement required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall, at a minimum, include all elements included in the form of confidentiality arrangement set forth in appendix B of this part.
(c)
Reporting failures to fulfill the terms of a confidentiality arrangement.
A swap data repository shall immediately report to the Commission any known failure to fulfill the terms of a confidentiality arrangement that it receives pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Failures to fulfill the terms of the confidentiality arrangement.
The Commission may, if an appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator fails to fulfill the terms of a confidentiality arrangement described in paragraph (a) of this section, direct, in writing, each swap data repository to limit, suspend or revoke such appropriate domestic regulator's or appropriate foreign regulator's access to swap data held by such swap data repository.
[83 FR 27438, June 12, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 75661, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.19
Core principles applicable to swap data repositories.
(a)
Compliance with core principles.
To be registered, and maintain registration, a swap data repository shall comply with the core principles as described in this section. Unless otherwise determined by the Commission by rule or regulation, a swap data repository shall have reasonable discretion in establishing the manner in which the swap data repository complies with the core principles described in this section.
(b)
Antitrust considerations (Core Principle 1).
Unless necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of the Act, a swap data repository shall avoid
adopting any rule or taking any action that results in any unreasonable restraint of trade; or imposing any material anticompetitive burden on trading, clearing or reporting swaps.
(c)
Governance arrangements (Core Principle 2).
Swap data repositories shall establish governance arrangements as set forth in § 49.20.
(d)
Conflicts of interest (Core Principle 3).
Swap data repositories shall manage and minimize conflicts of interest and establish processes for resolving such conflicts of interest as set forth in § 49.21.
(e)
Additional duties (Core Principle 4).
Swap data repositories shall also comply with the following additional duties:
(1)
Financial resources.
Swap data repositories shall maintain sufficient financial resources as set forth in § 49.25;
(2)
Disclosure requirements of swap data repositories.
Swap data repositories shall furnish an appropriate disclosure document setting forth the risks and costs of swap data repository services as detailed in § 49.26; and
(3)
Access and Fees.
Swap data repositories shall adhere to Commission requirements regarding fair and open access and the charging of any fees, dues or other similar type charges as detailed in § 49.27.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75661, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.20
Governance arrangements (Core Principle 2).
(a)
General.
(1) Each swap data repository shall establish governance arrangements that are transparent to fulfill public interest requirements, and to support the objectives of the Federal Government, owners, and participants.
(2) Each swap data repository shall establish governance arrangements that are well-defined and include a clear organizational structure with consistent lines of responsibility and effective internal controls, including with respect to administration, accounting, and the disclosure of confidential information. § 49.22 of this part contains rules on internal controls applicable to administration and accounting. § 49.16 of this part contains rules on internal controls applicable to the disclosure of confidential information.
(b)
Transparency of governance arrangements.
(1) Each swap data repository shall state in its charter documents that its governance arrangements are transparent to support, among other things, the objectives of the Federal Government pursuant to Section 21(f)(2) of the Act.
(2) Each swap data repository shall, at a minimum, make the following information available to the public and relevant authorities, including the Commission:
(i) The mission statement of the swap data repository;
(ii) The mission statement and/or charter of the board of directors, as well as of each committee of the swap data repository that has:
(A) The authority to act on behalf of the board of directors or
(B) The authority to amend or constrain actions of the board of directors;
(iii) The board of directors nomination process for the swap data repository, as well as the process for assigning members of the board of directors or other persons to any committee referenced in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section;
(iv) For the board of directors and each committee referenced in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the names of all members;
(v) A description of the manner in which the board of directors, as well as any committee referenced in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, considers an independent perspective in its decision-making process, as § 49.2(a) defines such term;
(vi) The lines of responsibility and accountability for each operational unit of the swap data repository to any committee thereof and/or the board of directors; and
(vii) Summaries of significant decisions impacting the public interest, the rationale for such decisions, and the process for reaching such decisions. Such significant decisions shall include decisions relating to pricing of repository services, offering of ancillary services, access to SDR data, and use of section 8 material, SDR information, and intellectual property (as referenced in § 49.16). Such summaries of
significant decisions shall not require the swap data repository to disclose section 8 material or, where appropriate, information that the swap data repository received on a confidential basis from a swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty.
(3) The swap data repository shall ensure that the information specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) to (vii) of this section is current, accurate, clear, and readily accessible, for example, on its Web site. The swap data repository shall set forth such information in a language commonly used in the commodity futures and swap markets and at least one of the domestic language(s) of the jurisdiction in which the swap data repository is located.
(4) Furthermore, the swap data repository shall disclose the information specified in paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section in a sufficiently comprehensive and detailed fashion so as to permit the public and relevant authorities, including the Commission, to understand the policies or procedures of the swap data repository implicated and the manner in which the decision implements or amends such policies or procedures. A swap data repository shall not disclose minutes from meetings of its board of directors or committees to the public, although it shall disclose such minutes to the Commission upon request.
(c)
The board of directors
—(1)
General.
(i) Each swap data repository shall establish, maintain, and enforce (including, without limitation, pursuant to paragraph (c)(4) of this section) written policies or procedures:
(A) To ensure that its board of directors, as well as any committee that has:
(
1
) Authority to act on behalf of its board of directors or
(
2
) Authority to amend or constrain actions of its board of directors, adequately considers an independent perspective in its decision-making process;
(B) To ensure that the nominations process for such board of directors, as well as the process for assigning members of the board of directors or other persons to such committees, adequately incorporates an independent perspective; and
(C) To clearly articulate the roles and responsibilities of such board of directors, as well as such committees, especially with respect to the manner in which they ensure that a swap data repository complies with all statutory and regulatory responsibilities under the Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
(ii) Each swap data repository shall submit to the Commission, within thirty days after each election of its board of directors:
(A) For the board of directors, as well as each committee referenced in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section, a list of all members;
(B) A description of the relationship, if any, between such members and the swap data repository or any swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty user thereof (or, in each case, affiliates thereof, as § 49.2(a) defines such term); and
(C) Any amendments to the written policies and procedures referenced in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.
(2)
Compensation.
The compensation of non-executive members of the board of directors of a swap data repository shall not be linked to the business performance of such swap data repository.
(3)
Annual self-review.
The board of directors of a swap data repository shall review its performance and that of its individual members annually. It should consider periodically using external facilitators for such reviews.
(4)
Board member removal.
A swap data repository shall have procedures to remove a member from the board of directors, where the conduct of such member is likely to be prejudicial to the sound and prudent management of the swap data repository.
(5)
Expertise.
Each swap data repository shall ensure that members of its board of directors, members of any committee referenced in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section, and its senior management, in each case, are of sufficiently good repute and possess the requisite skills and expertise to fulfill their responsibilities in the management and governance of the swap data repository, to have a clear understanding of such responsibilities, and
to exercise sound judgment about the affairs of the swap data repository.
(d)
Compliance with core principle.
The chief compliance officer of the swap data repository shall review the compliance of the swap data repository with this core principle.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75661, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.21
Conflicts of interest (Core Principle 3).
(a)
General.
(1) Each swap data repository shall establish and enforce rules to minimize conflicts of interest in the decision-making process of the swap data repository, and establish a process for resolving such conflicts of interest.
(2) Nothing in this section shall supersede any requirement applicable to the swap data repository pursuant to § 49.20 of this part.
(b)
Policies and procedures.
(1) Each swap data repository shall establish, maintain, and enforce written procedures to:
(i) Identify, on an ongoing basis, existing and potential conflicts of interest; and
(ii) Make decisions in the event of a conflict of interest. Such procedures shall include rules regarding the recusal, in applicable circumstances, of parties involved in the making of decisions.
(2) As further described in § 49.20 of this part, the chief compliance officer of the swap data repository shall, in consultation with the board of directors or a senior officer of the swap data repository, as applicable, resolve any such conflicts of interest.
(c)
Compliance with core principle.
The chief compliance officer of the swap data repository shall review the compliance of the swap data repository with this core principle.
§ 49.22
Chief compliance officer.
(a)
Definition of board of directors.
For purposes of this part 49, the term “board of directors” means the board of directors of a swap data repository, or for those swap data repositories whose organizational structure does not include a board of directors, a body performing a function similar to that of a board of directors.
(b)
Designation and qualifications of chief compliance officer
—(1)
Chief compliance officer required.
Each swap data repository shall establish the position of chief compliance officer, and designate an individual to serve in that capacity.
(i) The position of chief compliance officer shall carry with it the authority and resources to develop and enforce policies and procedures necessary to fulfill the duties set forth for chief compliance officers in the Act and Commission regulations.
(ii) The chief compliance officer shall have supervisory authority over all staff acting at the direction of the chief compliance officer.
(2)
Qualifications of chief compliance officer.
The individual designated to serve as chief compliance officer shall have the background and skills appropriate for fulfilling the responsibilities of the position and shall be subject to the following requirements:
(i) No individual disqualified from registration pursuant to section 8a(2) or 8a(3) of the Act may serve as a chief compliance officer.
(ii) The chief compliance officer may not be a member of the swap data repository's legal department or serve as its general counsel.
(c)
Appointment, supervision, and removal of chief compliance officer
—(1)
Appointment and compensation of chief compliance officer determined by board of directors.
A swap data repository's chief compliance officer shall be appointed by its board of directors. The board of directors shall also approve the compensation of the chief compliance officer and shall meet with the chief compliance officer at least annually. The appointment of the chief compliance officer and approval of the chief compliance officer's compensation shall require the approval of the board of directors. The senior officer of the swap data repository may fulfill these responsibilities. A swap data repository shall notify the Commission of the appointment of a new chief compliance officer within two business days of such appointment.
(2)
Supervision of chief compliance officer.
A swap data repository's chief compliance officer shall report directly to the board of directors or to the senior
officer of the swap data repository, at the swap data repository's discretion.
(3)
Removal of chief compliance officer by board of directors.
(i) Removal of a swap data repository's chief compliance officer shall require the approval of the swap data repository's board of directors. If the swap data repository does not have a board of directors, then the chief compliance officer may be removed by the senior officer of the swap data repository;
(ii) The swap data repository shall notify the Commission of such removal within two business days; and
(iii) The swap data repository shall notify the Commission within two business days of appointing any new chief compliance officer, whether interim or permanent.
(d)
Duties of chief compliance officer.
The chief compliance officer's duties shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Overseeing and reviewing the swap data repository's compliance with section 21 of the Act and any related rules adopted by the Commission;
(2) In consultation with the board of directors, a body performing a function similar to the board, or the senior officer of the swap data repository, resolving any conflicts of interest that may arise including:
(i) Conflicts between business considerations and compliance requirements;
(ii) Conflicts between business considerations and the requirement that the swap data repository provide fair and open access as set forth in § 49.27 of this part; and
(iii) Conflicts between a swap data repository's management and members of the board of directors;
(3) Establishing and administering written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the Act and any rules adopted by the Commission;
(4) Taking reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the Act and Commission regulations relating to agreements, contracts, or transactions, and with Commission regulations under section 21 of the Act, including confidentiality arrangements received by the chief compliance officer's registered swap depository pursuant to § 49.18(a);
(5) Establishing procedures for the remediation of noncompliance issues identified by the chief compliance officer through a compliance office review, look-back, internal or external audit finding, self-reported error, or validated complaint;
(6) Establishing and following appropriate procedures for the handling, management response, remediation, retesting, and closing of noncompliance issues; and
(7) Establishing and administering a written code of ethics designed to prevent ethical violations and to promote honesty and ethical conduct.
(e)
Annual compliance report prepared by chief compliance officer.
The chief compliance officer shall, not less than annually, prepare and sign an annual compliance report, that at a minimum, contains the following information covering the time period since the date on which the swap data repository became registered with the Commission or since the end of the period covered by a previously filed annual compliance report, as applicable:
(1) A description of the swap data repository's written policies and procedures, including the code of ethics and conflict of interest policies;
(2) A review of applicable Commission regulations and each subsection and core principle of section 21 of the Act, that, with respect to each:
(i) Identifies the policies and procedures that are designed to ensure compliance with each subsection and core principle, including each duty specified in section 21(c);
(ii) Provides a self-assessment as to the effectiveness of these policies and procedures; and
(iii) Discusses areas for improvement, and recommends potential or prospective changes or improvements to its compliance program and resources;
(3) A list of any material changes to compliance policies and procedures since the last annual compliance report;
(4) A description of the financial, managerial, and operational resources set aside for compliance with respect to the Act and Commission regulations;
(5) A description of any material compliance matters, including noncompliance issues identified through a compliance office review, look-back, internal or external audit finding, self-reported error, or validated complaint, and explains how they were resolved; and
(6) A certification by the chief compliance officer that, to the best of his or her knowledge and reasonable belief, and under penalty of law, the annual compliance report is accurate and complete.
(f)
Submission of annual compliance report to the Commission.
(1) Prior to submission of the annual compliance report to the Commission, the chief compliance officer shall provide the annual compliance report to the board of the swap data repository for its review. If the swap data repository does not have a board, then the annual compliance report shall be provided to the senior officer for their review. Members of the board and the senior officer may not require the chief compliance officer to make any changes to the report. Submission of the report to the board or senior officer, and any subsequent discussion of the report, shall be recorded in board minutes or similar written record, as evidence of compliance with this requirement.
(2) The annual compliance report shall be provided electronically to the Commission not more than 60 days after the end of the swap data repository's fiscal year.
(3) Promptly upon discovery of any material error or omission made in a previously filed compliance report, the chief compliance officer shall file an amendment with the Commission to correct any material error or omission. An amendment shall contain the oath or certification required under paragraph (e)(6) of this section.
(4) A swap data repository may request the Commission for an extension of time to file its compliance report based on substantial, undue hardship. Extensions for the filing deadline may be granted at the discretion of the Commission.
(g)
Recordkeeping.
(1) The swap data repository shall maintain:
(i) A copy of the written policies and procedures, including the code of ethics and conflicts of interest policies adopted in furtherance of compliance with the Act and Commission regulations;
(ii) Copies of all materials, including written reports provided to the board of directors or senior officer in connection with the review of the annual compliance report under paragraph (f)(1) of this section and the board minutes or similar written record of such review, that record the submission of the annual compliance report to the board of directors or senior officer; and
(iii) Any records relevant to the swap data repository's annual compliance report, including, but not limited to, work papers and other documents that form the basis of the report, and memoranda, correspondence, other documents, and records that are:
(A) Created, sent, or received in connection with the annual compliance report; and
(B) Contain conclusions, opinions, analyses, or financial data related to the annual compliance report.
(2) The swap data repository shall maintain records in accordance with § 1.31 of this chapter.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 83 FR 27439, June 12, 2018; 85 FR 75661, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.23
Emergency authority policies and procedures.
(a)
Emergency policies and procedures required.
A swap data repository shall establish policies and procedures for the exercise of emergency authority in the event of any emergency, including but not limited to natural, man-made, and information technology emergencies. Such policies and procedures shall also require a swap data repository to exercise its emergency authority upon request by the Commission. A swap data repository's policies and procedures for the exercise of emergency authority shall be transparent to the Commission and to market participants whose SDR data resides at the swap data repository.
(b)
Invocation of emergency authority.
A swap data repository's policies and procedures for the exercise of emergency authority shall enumerate the circumstances under which the swap data repository is authorized to invoke
its emergency authority and the procedures that it shall follow to declare an emergency. Such policies and procedures shall also address the range of measures that it is authorized to take when exercising such emergency authority.
(c)
Designation of persons authorized to act in an emergency.
A swap data repository shall designate one or more officials of the swap data repository as persons authorized to exercise emergency authority on its behalf. A swap data repository shall also establish a chain of command to be used in the event that the designated person(s) is unavailable. A swap data repository shall notify the Commission of the person(s) designated to exercise emergency authority.
(d)
Conflicts of interest.
A swap data repository's policies and procedures for the exercise of emergency authority shall include provisions to avoid conflicts of interest in any decisions made pursuant to emergency authority. Such policies and procedures shall also include provisions to consult the swap data repository's chief compliance officer in any emergency decision that may raise potential conflicts of interest.
(e)
Notification to the Commission.
A swap data repository's policies and procedures for the exercise of emergency authority shall include provisions to notify the Commission as soon as reasonably practicable regarding any invocation of emergency authority. When notifying the Commission of any exercise of emergency authority, a swap data repository shall explain the reasons for taking such emergency action, explain how conflicts of interest were minimized, and document the decision-making process. Underlying documentation shall be made available to the Commission upon request.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75661, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.24
System safeguards.
(a) Each swap data repository shall, with respect to all SDR data in its custody:
(1) Establish and maintain a program of risk analysis and oversight to identify and minimize sources of operational risk through the development of appropriate controls and procedures and the development of automated systems that are reliable, secure, and have adequate scalable capacity;
(2) Establish and maintain emergency procedures, backup facilities, and a business continuity-disaster recovery plan that allow for the timely recovery and resumption of operations and the fulfillment of the duties and obligations of the swap data repository; and
(3) Periodically conduct tests to verify that backup resources are sufficient to ensure continued fulfillment of all duties of the swap data repository established by the Act or the Commission's regulations.
(b) A swap data repository's program of risk analysis and oversight with respect to its operations and automated systems shall address each of the following categories of risk analysis and oversight:
(1)
Enterprise risk management and governance.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Assessment, mitigation, and monitoring of security and technology risk; security and technology capital planning and investment; board of directors and management oversight of technology and security; information technology audit and controls assessments; remediation of deficiencies; and any other elements of enterprise risk management and governance included in generally accepted best practices.
(2)
Information security.
This category includes, but is not limited to, controls relating to: Access to systems and data (including least privilege, separation of duties, account monitoring and control); user and device identification and authentication; security awareness training; audit log maintenance, monitoring, and analysis; media protection; personnel security and screening; automated system and communications protection (including network port control, boundary defenses, encryption); system and information integrity (including malware defenses, software integrity monitoring); vulnerability management; penetration testing; security incident response and management; and any other elements of information security included in generally accepted best practices.
(3)
Business continuity-disaster recovery planning and resources.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Regular, periodic testing and review of business continuity-disaster recovery capabilities, the controls and capabilities described in paragraph (a), (d), (e), (f), and (k) of this section; and any other elements of business continuity-disaster recovery planning and resources included in generally accepted best practices.
(4)
Capacity and performance planning.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Controls for monitoring the swap data repository's systems to ensure adequate scalable capacity (including testing, monitoring, and analysis of current and projected future capacity and performance, and of possible capacity degradation due to planned automated system changes); and any other elements of capacity and performance planning included in generally accepted best practices.
(5)
Systems operations.
This category includes, but is not limited to: System maintenance; configuration management (including baseline configuration, configuration change and patch management, least functionality, inventory of authorized and unauthorized devices and software); event and problem response and management; and any other elements of system operations included in generally accepted best practices.
(6)
Systems development and quality assurance.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Requirements development; pre-production and regression testing; change management procedures and approvals; outsourcing and vendor management; training in secure coding practices; and any other elements of systems development and quality assurance included in generally accepted best practices.
(7)
Physical security and environmental controls.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Physical access and monitoring; power, telecommunication, and environmental controls; fire protection; and any other elements of physical security and environmental controls included in generally accepted best practices.
(c) In addressing the categories of risk analysis and oversight required under paragraph (b) of this section, a swap data repository shall follow generally accepted standards and best practices with respect to the development, operation, reliability, security, and capacity of automated systems.
(d) A swap data repository shall maintain a business continuity-disaster recovery plan and business continuity-disaster recovery resources, emergency procedures, and backup facilities sufficient to enable timely recovery and resumption of its operations and resumption of its ongoing fulfillment of its duties and obligations as a swap data repository following any disruption of its operations. Such duties and obligations include, without limitation, the duties set forth in §§ 49.10 through 49.18, 49.23, and the core principles set forth in §§ 49.19 through 49.21 and §§ 49.25 through 49.27, and maintenance of a comprehensive audit trail. The swap data repository's business continuity-disaster recovery plan and resources generally should enable resumption of the swap data repository's operations and resumption of ongoing fulfillment of the swap data repository's duties and obligation during the next business day following the disruption. A swap data repository shall update its business continuity-disaster recovery plan and emergency procedures at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but at a minimum no less frequently than annually.
(e) Swap data repositories determined by the Commission to be critical swap data repositories are subject to more stringent requirements as set forth below.
(1) Each swap data repository that the Commission determines is critical must maintain a disaster recovery plan and business continuity and disaster recovery resources, including infrastructure and personnel, sufficient to enable it to achieve a same-day recovery time objective in the event that its normal capabilities become temporarily inoperable for any reason up to and including a wide-scale disruption.
(2) A same-day recovery time objective is a recovery time objective within the same business day on which normal capabilities become temporarily inoperable for any reason up to and including a wide-scale disruption.
(3) To ensure its ability to achieve a same-day recovery time objective in the event of a wide-scale disruption, each swap data repository that the Commission determines is critical must maintain a degree of geographic dispersal of both infrastructure and personnel such that:
(i) Infrastructure sufficient to enable the swap data repository to meet a same-day recovery time objective after interruption is located outside the relevant area of the infrastructure the entity normally relies upon to conduct activities necessary to the reporting, recordkeeping and/or dissemination of SDR data, and does not rely on the same critical transportation, telecommunications, power, water, or other critical infrastructure components the entity normally relies upon for such activities; and
(ii) Personnel sufficient to enable the swap data repository to meet a same-day recovery time objective, after interruption of normal SDR data reporting, recordkeeping and/or dissemination by a wide-scale disruption affecting the relevant area in which the personnel the entity normally relies upon to engage in such activities are located, live and work outside that relevant area.
(4) Each swap data repository that the Commission determines is critical must conduct regular, periodic tests of its business continuity and disaster recovery plans and resources and its capacity to achieve a same-day recovery time objective in the event of a wide-scale disruption. The swap data repository shall keep records of the results of such tests, and make the results available to the Commission upon request.
(f) A swap data repository that is not determined by the Commission to be a critical swap data repository satisfies the requirement to be able to resume operations and resume ongoing fulfillment of the swap data repository's duties and obligations during the next business day following a disruption by maintaining either:
(1) Infrastructure and personnel resources of its own that are sufficient to ensure timely recovery and resumption of its operations, duties and obligations as a swap data repository following any disruption of its operations; or
(2) Contractual arrangements with other swap data repositories or disaster recovery service providers, as appropriate, that are sufficient to ensure continued fulfillment of all of the swap data repository's duties and obligations following any disruption of its operations, both with respect to all swaps reported to the swap data repository and with respect to all SDR data contained in the swap data repository.
(g) A swap data repository shall notify Commission staff promptly of all:
(1) Systems malfunctions;
(2) Cyber security incidents or targeted threats that actually or potentially jeopardize automated system operation, reliability, security, or capacity; and
(3) Any activation of the swap data repository's business continuity-disaster recovery plan.
(h) A swap data repository shall give Commission staff timely advance notice of all:
(1) Planned changes to automated systems that may impact the reliability, security, or adequate scalable capacity of such systems; and
(2) Planned changes to the swap data repository's program of risk analysis and oversight.
(i) As part of a swap data repository's obligation to produce books and records in accordance with § 1.31 of this chapter, and § 49.12, a swap data repository shall provide to the Commission the following system safeguards-related books and records, promptly upon the request of any Commission representative:
(1) Current copies of its business continuity-disaster recovery plans and other emergency procedures;
(2) All assessments of its operational risks or system safeguards-related controls;
(3) All reports concerning system safeguards testing and assessment required by this chapter, whether performed by independent contractors or by employees of the swap data repository; and
(4) All other books and records requested by Commission staff in connection with Commission oversight of system safeguards pursuant to the Act or
Commission regulations, or in connection with Commission maintenance of a current profile of the swap data repository's automated systems.
(5) Nothing in paragraph (i) of this section shall be interpreted as reducing or limiting in any way a swap data repository's obligation to comply with § 1.31 of this chapter, or with § 49.12.
(j) A swap data repository shall conduct regular, periodic, objective testing and review of its automated systems to ensure that they are reliable, secure, and have adequate scalable capacity. It shall also conduct regular, periodic testing and review of its business continuity-disaster recovery capabilities. Such testing and review shall include, without limitation, all of the types of testing set forth in this paragraph.
(1)
Definitions.
As used in this paragraph (j):
Controls
means the safeguards or countermeasures employed by the swap data repository in order to protect the reliability, security, or capacity of its automated systems or the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its SDR data and SDR information, and in order to enable the swap data repository to fulfill its statutory and regulatory duties and responsibilities.
Controls testing
means assessment of the swap data repository's controls to determine whether such controls are implemented correctly, are operating as intended, and are enabling the swap data repository to meet the requirements established by this section.
Enterprise technology risk assessment
means a written assessment that includes, but is not limited to, an analysis of threats and vulnerabilities in the context of mitigating controls. An enterprise technology risk assessment identifies, estimates, and prioritizes risks to swap data repository operations or assets, or to market participants, individuals, or other entities, resulting from impairment of the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of SDR data and SDR information or the reliability, security, or capacity of automated systems.
External penetration testing
means attempts to penetrate the swap data repository's automated systems from outside the systems' boundaries to identify and exploit vulnerabilities. Methods of conducting external penetration testing include, but are not limited to, methods for circumventing the security features of an automated system.
Internal penetration testing
means attempts to penetrate the swap data repository's automated systems from inside the systems' boundaries, to identify and exploit vulnerabilities. Methods of conducting internal penetration testing include, but are not limited to, methods for circumventing the security features of an automated system.
Key controls
means those controls that an appropriate risk analysis determines are either critically important for effective system safeguards or intended to address risks that evolve or change more frequently and therefore require more frequent review to ensure their continuing effectiveness in addressing such risks.
Security incident
means a cyber security or physical security event that actually jeopardizes or has a significant likelihood of jeopardizing automated system operation, reliability, security, or capacity, or the availability, confidentiality, or integrity of SDR data.
Security incident response plan
means a written plan documenting the swap data repository's policies, controls, procedures, and resources for identifying, responding to, mitigating, and recovering from security incidents, and the roles and responsibilities of its management, staff and independent contractors in responding to security incidents. A security incident response plan may be a separate document or a business continuity-disaster recovery plan section or appendix dedicated to security incident response.
Security incident response plan testing
means testing of a swap data repository's security incident response plan to determine the plan's effectiveness, identify its potential weaknesses or deficiencies, enable regular plan updating and improvement, and maintain organizational preparedness and resiliency with respect to security incidents. Methods of conducting security incident response plan testing may include, but are not limited to, checklist completion, walk-through or table-top
exercises, simulations, and comprehensive exercises.
Vulnerability testing
means testing of a swap data repository's automated systems to determine what information may be discoverable through a reconnaissance analysis of those systems and what vulnerabilities may be present on those systems.
(2)
Vulnerability testing.
A swap data repository shall conduct vulnerability testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (l) of this section.
(i) A swap data repository shall conduct such vulnerability testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but no less frequently than quarterly.
(ii) Such vulnerability testing shall include automated vulnerability scanning, which shall follow generally accepted best practices.
(iii) A swap data repository shall conduct vulnerability testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the swap data repository who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(3)
External penetration testing.
A swap data repository shall conduct external penetration testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (l) of this section.
(i) A swap data repository shall conduct such external penetration testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but no less frequently than annually.
(ii) A swap data repository shall engage independent contractors to conduct the required annual external penetration test. The swap data repository may conduct other external penetration testing by using employees of the swap data repository who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(4)
Internal penetration testing.
A swap data repository shall conduct internal penetration testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (l) of this section.
(i) A swap data repository shall conduct such internal penetration testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but no less frequently than annually.
(ii) A swap data repository shall conduct internal penetration testing by engaging independent contractors, or by using employees of the swap data repository who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(5)
Controls testing.
A swap data repository shall conduct controls testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (l) of this section.
(i) A swap data repository shall conduct controls testing, which includes testing of each control included in its program of risk analysis and oversight, at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis. Such testing may be conducted on a rolling basis. A swap data repository shall conduct testing of its key controls no less frequently than every three years. The swap data repository may conduct testing of its key controls on a rolling basis over the course of three years or the period determined by such risk analysis, whichever is shorter.
(ii) A swap data repository shall engage independent contractors to test and assess the key controls included in its program of risk analysis and oversight no less frequently than every three years. The swap data repository may conduct any other controls testing required by this section by using independent contractors or employees of the swap data repository who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(6)
Security incident response plan testing.
A swap data repository shall conduct security incident response plan testing sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (l) of this section.
(i) A swap data repository shall conduct such security incident response plan testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but no less frequently than annually.
(ii) A swap data repository's security incident response plan shall include, without limitation, the swap data repository's definition and classification of security incidents, its policies and
procedures for reporting security incidents and for internal and external communication and information sharing regarding security incidents, and the hand-off and escalation points in its security incident response process.
(iii) A swap data repository may coordinate its security incident response plan testing with other testing required by this section or with testing of its other business continuity-disaster recovery and crisis management plans.
(iv) A swap data repository may conduct security incident response plan testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the swap data repository.
(7)
Enterprise technology risk assessment.
A swap data repository shall conduct enterprise technology risk assessment of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (l) of this section.
(i) A swap data repository shall conduct an enterprise technology risk assessment at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but no less frequently than annually. A swap data repository that has conducted an enterprise technology risk assessment that complies with this section may conduct subsequent assessments by updating the previous assessment.
(ii) A swap data repository may conduct enterprise technology risk assessments by using independent contractors or employees of the swap data repository who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being assessed.
(k) To the extent practicable, a swap data repository shall:
(1) Coordinate its business continuity-disaster recovery plan with those of swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, swap dealers, and major swap participants who report SDR data to the swap data repository, and with those regulators identified in Section 21(c)(7) of the Act, in a manner adequate to enable effective resumption of the swap data repository's fulfillment of its duties and obligations following a disruption causing activation of the swap data repository's business continuity and disaster recovery plan;
(2) Participate in periodic, synchronized testing of its business continuity—disaster recovery plan and the business continuity—disaster recovery plans of swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, swap dealers, and major swap participants who report SDR data to the swap data repository, and the business continuity—disaster recovery plans required by the regulators identified in Section 21(c)(7) of the Act; and
(3) Ensure that its business continuity—disaster recovery plan takes into account the business continuity—disaster recovery plans of its telecommunications, power, water, and other essential service providers.
(l)
Scope of testing and assessment.
The scope for all system safeguards testing and assessment required by this part shall be broad enough to include the testing of automated systems and controls that the swap data repository's required program of risk analysis and oversight and its current cybersecurity threat analysis indicate is necessary to identify risks and vulnerabilities that could enable an intruder or unauthorized user or insider to:
(1) Interfere with the swap data repository's operations or with fulfillment of its statutory and regulatory responsibilities;
(2) Impair or degrade the reliability, security, or adequate scalable capacity of the swap data repository's automated systems;
(3) Add to, delete, modify, exfiltrate, or compromise the integrity of any SDR data related to the swap data repository's regulated activities; or
(4) Undertake any other unauthorized action affecting the swap data repository's regulated activities or the hardware or software used in connection with those activities.
(m)
Internal reporting and review.
Both the senior management and the board of directors of a swap data repository shall receive and review reports setting forth the results of the testing and assessment required by this section. A swap data repository shall establish and follow appropriate procedures for the remediation of issues identified through such review, as provided in paragraph (n) of this section,
and for evaluation of the effectiveness of testing and assessment protocols.
(n)
Remediation.
A swap data repository shall identify and document the vulnerabilities and deficiencies in its systems revealed by the testing and assessment required by this section. The swap data repository shall conduct and document an appropriate analysis of the risks presented by such vulnerabilities and deficiencies, to determine and document whether to remediate or accept the associated risk. When the swap data repository determines to remediate a vulnerability or deficiency, it must remediate in a timely manner given the nature and magnitude of the associated risk.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 64315, Sept. 19, 2016; 85 FR 75661, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.25
Financial resources.
(a)
General rule.
(1) A swap data repository shall maintain sufficient financial resources to perform its statutory and regulatory duties set forth in this chapter.
(2) An entity that operates as both a swap data repository and a derivatives clearing organization shall also comply with the financial resource requirements applicable to derivatives clearing organizations under § 39.11 of this chapter.
(3) Financial resources shall be considered sufficient if their value is at least equal to a total amount that would enable the swap data repository, or applicant for registration, to cover its operating costs for a period of at least one year, calculated on a rolling basis.
(4) The financial resources described in this paragraph (a) must be independent and separately dedicated to ensure that assets and capital are not used for multiple purposes.
(b)
Types of financial resources.
Financial resources available to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may include:
(1) The swap data repository's own capital; and
(2) Any other financial resource deemed acceptable by the Commission.
(c)
Computation of financial resource requirement.
A swap data repository shall, on a quarterly basis, based upon its fiscal year, make a reasonable calculation of its projected operating costs over a 12-month period in order to determine the amount needed to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. The swap data repository shall have reasonable discretion in determining the methodology used to compute such projected operating costs. The Commission may review the methodology and require changes as appropriate.
(d)
Valuation of financial resources.
At appropriate intervals, but not less than quarterly, a swap data repository shall compute the current market value of each financial resource used to meet its obligations under paragraph (a) of this section. Reductions in value to reflect market and credit risk (haircuts) shall be applied as appropriate.
(e)
Liquidity of financial resources.
The financial resources allocated by the swap data repository to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) shall include unencumbered, liquid financial assets (
i.e.,
cash and/or highly liquid securities) equal to at least six months' operating costs. If any portion of such financial resources is not sufficiently liquid, the swap data repository may take into account a committed line of credit or similar facility for the purpose of meeting this requirement.
(f)
Reporting requirements.
(1) Each fiscal quarter, or at any time upon Commission request, a swap data repository shall report to the Commission the amount of financial resources necessary to meet the requirements of paragraph (a), the value of each financial resource available, computed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d); and provide the Commission with a financial statement, including the balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows of the swap data repository or of its parent company. Financial statements shall be prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding financial statement.
(2) The calculations required by this paragraph shall be made as of the last business day of the swap data repository's fiscal quarter.
(3) The report shall be filed not later than 17 business days after the end of the swap data repository's fiscal quarter, or at such later time as the Commission may permit, in its discretion, upon request by the swap data repository.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75662, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.26
Disclosure requirements of swap data repositories.
Before accepting any SDR data from a swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty; or upon a swap execution facility's, designated contract market's, or reporting counterparty's request; a swap data repository shall furnish to the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty a disclosure document that contains the following written information, which shall reasonably enable the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty to identify and evaluate accurately the risks and costs associated with using the services of the swap data repository:
(a) The swap data repository's criteria for providing others with access to services offered and SDR data maintained by the swap data repository;
(b) The swap data repository's criteria for those seeking to connect to or link with the swap data repository;
(c) A description of the swap data repository's policies and procedures regarding its safeguarding of SDR data and operational reliability to protect the confidentiality and security of such data, as described in § 49.24;
(d) The swap data repository's policies and procedures reasonably designed to protect the privacy of any and all SDR data that the swap data repository receives from a swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty, as described in § 49.16;
(e) The swap data repository's policies and procedures regarding its non-commercial and/or commercial use of the SDR data that it receives from a swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty;
(f) The swap data repository's dispute resolution procedures;
(g) A description of all the swap data repository's services, including any ancillary services;
(h) The swap data repository's updated schedule of any fees, rates, dues, unbundled prices, or other charges for all of its services, including any ancillary services; any discounts or rebates offered; and the criteria to benefit from such discounts or rebates;
(i) A description of the swap data repository's governance arrangements; and
(j) The swap data repository's policies and procedures regarding the reporting of SDR data to the swap data repository, including the swap data repository's SDR data validation procedures, swap data verification procedures, and procedures for correcting SDR data errors and omissions.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75662, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.27
Access and fees.
(a)
Fair, open and equal access.
(1) A swap data repository, consistent with Section 21 of the Act, shall provide its services to market participants, including but not limited to designated contract markets, swap execution facilities, derivatives clearing organizations, swap dealers, major swap participants and any other counterparties, on a fair, open and equal basis. For this purpose, a swap data repository shall not provide access to its services on a discriminatory basis but is required to provide its services to all market participants for swaps it accepts in an asset class.
(2) Consistent with the principles of open access set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a swap data repository shall not tie or bundle the offering of mandated regulatory services with other ancillary services that a swap data repository may provide to market participants.
(b)
Fees.
(1) Any fees or charges imposed by a swap data repository in connection with the reporting of SDR data and any other supplemental or ancillary services provided by such swap data repository shall be equitable and established in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner. Fees or charges
shall not be used as an artificial barrier to access to the swap data repository. Swap data repositories shall not offer preferential pricing arrangements to any market participant on any basis, including volume discounts or reductions unless such discounts or reductions apply to all market participants uniformly and are not otherwise established in a manner that would effectively limit the application of such discount or reduction to a select number of market participants.
(2) All fees or charges are to be fully disclosed and transparent to market participants. At a minimum, the swap data repository shall provide a schedule of fees and charges that is accessible by all market participants on its Web site.
(3) The Commission notes that it will not specifically approve the fees charged by swap data repositories. However, any and all fees charged by swap data repositories must be consistent with the principles set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
[76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75662, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.28
Operating hours of swap data repositories.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a), a swap data repository shall have systems in place to continuously accept and promptly record all SDR data reported to the swap data repository as required in this chapter and, as applicable, publicly disseminate all swap transaction and pricing data reported to the swap data repository as required in part 43 of this chapter.
(1) A swap data repository may establish normal closing hours to perform system maintenance during periods when, in the reasonable estimation of the swap data repository, the swap data repository typically receives the least amount of SDR data. A swap data repository shall provide reasonable advance notice of its normal closing hours to market participants and to the public.
(2) A swap data repository may declare, on an ad hoc basis, special closing hours to perform system maintenance that cannot wait until normal closing hours. A swap data repository shall schedule special closing hours during periods when, in the reasonable estimation of the swap data repository in the context of the circumstances prompting the special closing hours, the special closing hours will be the least disruptive to the swap data repository's SDR data reporting responsibilities. A swap data repository shall provide reasonable advance notice of its special closing hours to market participants and to the public whenever possible, and, if advance notice is not reasonably possible, shall provide notice of its special closing hours to market participants and to the public as soon as reasonably possible after declaring special closing hours.
(b) A swap data repository shall comply with the requirements under part 40 of this chapter in adopting or amending normal closing hours and special closing hours.
(c) During normal closing hours and special closing hours, a swap data repository shall have the capability to accept and hold in queue any and all SDR data reported to the swap data repository during the normal closing hours or special closing hours.
(1) Upon reopening after normal closing hours or special closing hours, a swap data repository shall promptly process all SDR data received during normal closing hours or special closing hours, as required pursuant to this chapter, and, pursuant to part 43 of this chapter, publicly disseminate all swap transaction and pricing data reported to the swap data repository that was held in queue during the normal closing hours or special closing hours.
(2) If at any time during normal closing hours or special closing hours a swap data repository is unable to receive and hold in queue any SDR data reported pursuant to this chapter, then the swap data repository shall immediately issue notice to all swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, reporting counterparties, and the public that it is unable to receive and hold in queue SDR data. Immediately upon reopening, the swap data repository shall issue notice to all swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, reporting counterparties, and the public that it has resumed normal operations. Any swap
execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty that was obligated to report SDR data pursuant to this chapter to the swap data repository, but could not do so because of the swap data repository's inability to receive and hold in queue SDR data, shall report the SDR data to the swap data repository immediately after receiving such notice.
[85 FR 75662, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.29
Information relating to swap data repository compliance.
(a)
Requests for information.
Upon the Commission's request, a swap data repository shall file with the Commission information related to its business as a swap data repository and such information as the Commission determines to be necessary or appropriate for the Commission to perform the duties of the Commission under the Act and regulations in 17 CFR chapter I. The swap data repository shall file the information requested in the form and manner and within the time period the Commission specifies in the request.
(b)
Demonstration of compliance.
Upon the Commission's request, a swap data repository shall file with the Commission a written demonstration, containing supporting data, information, and documents, that it is in compliance with its obligations under the Act and the Commission's regulations in 17 CFR chapter I, as the Commission specifies in the request. The swap data repository shall file the written demonstration in the form and manner and within the time period the Commission specifies in the request.
[85 FR 75663, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.30
Form and manner of reporting and submitting information to the Commission.
Unless otherwise instructed by the Commission, a swap data repository shall submit SDR data reports and any other information required under this part to the Commission, within the time specified, using the format, coding structure, and electronic data transmission procedures approved in writing by the Commission.
[85 FR 75663, Nov. 25, 2020]
§ 49.31
Delegation of authority to the Directors of the Division of Market Oversight and Division of Data relating to certain part 49 matters.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight and to such members of the Commission staff acting under their direction as they may designate:
(1) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.5.
(2) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.12.
(3) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.13.
(4) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.16.
(5) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.17.
(6) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.18.
(7) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.22.
(8) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.23.
(9) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.24
(10) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.25.
(11) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.29.
(12) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.30.
(b) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the Director of the Division of Data and to such members of the Commission staff acting under their direction as they may designate:
(1) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.9.
(2) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.10.
(c) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight, and, separately, the Director of the Division of Data may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated under this section.
(d) Nothing in this section may prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
[89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]
Pt. 49, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 49—Form SDR

# COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION FORM SDR

# SWAP DATA REPOSITORY APPLICATION OR AMENDMENT TO APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION

# REGISTRATION INSTRUCTIONS
Intentional misstatements or omissions of material fact may constitute federal criminal violations (7 U.S.C. 13 and 18 U.S.C. 1001) or grounds for disqualification from registration.

# DEFINITIONS
Unless the context requires otherwise, all terms used in this Form SDR have the same meaning as in the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (“Act”), and in the General Rules and Regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) thereunder (17 CFR chapter I).
For the purposes of this Form SDR, the term “Applicant” shall include any applicant for registration as a swap data repository or any applicant amending a pending application.

# GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
1. This Form SDR, which includes instructions, a Cover Sheet, and required Exhibits (together “Form SDR”), is to be filed with the Commission by all Applicants, pursuant to section 21 of the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder. Upon the filing of an application for registration in accordance with the instructions provided herein, the Commission will publish notice of the filing and afford interested persons an opportunity to submit written comments concerning such application. No application for registration shall be effective unless the Commission, by order, grants such registration.
2. Individuals' names, except the executing signature, shall be given in full (Last Name, First Name, Middle Name).
3. Signatures on all copies of the Form SDR filed with the Commission can be executed electronically. If this Form SDR is filed by a corporation, it shall be signed in the name of the corporation by a principal officer duly authorized; if filed by a limited liability company, it shall be signed in the name of the limited liability company by a manager or member duly authorized to sign on the limited liability company's behalf; if filed by a partnership, it shall be signed in the name of the partnership by a general partner duly authorized; if filed by an unincorporated organization or association that is not a partnership, it shall be signed in the name of such organization or association by the managing agent,
i.e.,
a duly authorized person who directs manages or who participates in the directing or managing of its affairs.
4. If this Form SDR is being filed as an application for registration, all applicable items must be answered in full. If any item is inapplicable, indicate by “none,” “not applicable,” or “N/A,” as appropriate.
5. Under section 21 of the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder, the Commission is authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this Form SDR from any Applicant seeking registration as a swap data repository. Disclosure by the Applicant of the information specified in this Form SDR is mandatory prior to the start of the processing of an application for registration as a swap data repository. The information provided in this Form SDR will be used for the principal purpose of determining whether the Commission should grant or deny registration to an Applicant. The Commission may determine that additional information is required from an Applicant in order to process its application. A Form SDR that is not prepared and executed in compliance with applicable requirements and instructions may be returned as not acceptable for filing. Acceptance of this Form SDR, however, shall not constitute a finding that the Form SDR has been filed as required or that the information submitted is true, current, or complete.
6. Except in cases where confidential treatment is requested by the Applicant and granted by the Commission pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act and Commission Regulation § 145.9, information supplied on this Form SDR will be included in the public files of the Commission and will be available for inspection by any interested person. The Applicant must identify with particularity the information in these exhibits that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment and supporting documentation for such request pursuant to Commission Regulations § 40.8 and § 145.9.

# APPLICATION AMENDMENTS
1. An Applicant amending a pending application for registration as a swap data repository shall file an amended Form SDR electronically with the Secretary of the Commission in the manner specified by the Commission.
2. When filing this Form SDR for purposes of amending a pending application, an Applicant must re-file the entire Cover Sheet, amended if necessary, include an executing signature, and attach thereto revised Exhibits or other materials marked to show any amendments. The submission of an amendment to a pending application represents that all unamended items and Exhibits remain true, current, and complete as previously filed.

# WHERE TO FILE
This Form SDR shall be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission in the manner specified by the Commission.
ER25NO20.038
ER25NO20.039
ER25NO20.040
ER25NO20.041

# EXHIBITS INSTRUCTIONS
The following Exhibits must be included as part of Form SDR and filed with the Commission by each Applicant seeking registration as a swap data repository pursuant to section 21 of the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder. Such Exhibits must be labeled according to the items specified in this Form SDR. If any Exhibit is inapplicable, please specify the Exhibit letter and indicate by “none,” “not applicable,” or “N/A,” as appropriate. The Applicant must identify with particularity the information in these Exhibits that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment and supporting documentation for such request pursuant to Commission Regulations § 40.8 and § 145.9.
If the Applicant is a newly formed enterprise and does not have the financial statements required pursuant to Items 27 and 28 of this form, the Applicant should provide pro forma financial statements for the most
recent six months or since inception, whichever is less.

# EXHIBITS I—BUSINESS ORGANIZATION
14. Attach as Exhibit A, any person who owns ten (10) percent or more of Applicant's equity or possesses voting power of any class, either directly or indirectly, through agreement or otherwise, in any other manner, may control or direct the management or policies of Applicant. “Control” for this purpose is defined in Commission Regulation § 49.2(a).
State in Exhibit A the full name and address of each such person and attach a copy of the agreement or, if there is none written, describe the agreement or basis upon which such person exercises or may exercise such control or direction.
15. Attach as Exhibit B, a narrative that sets forth the fitness standards for the board of directors and its composition including the number or percentage of public directors.
Attach a list of the present officers, directors (including an identification of the public directors), governors (and, if the Applicant is not a corporation, the members of all standing committees grouped by committee), or persons performing functions similar to any of the foregoing, of the swap data repository or of the entity identified in Item 16 that performs the swap data repository activities of the Applicant, indicating for each:
a. Name
b. Title
c. Date of commencement and, if appropriate, termination of present term of position
d. Length of time each present officer, director, or governor has held the same position
e. Brief account of the business experience of each officer and director over the last five (5) years
f. Any other business affiliations in the securities industry or OTC derivatives industry
g. A description of:
(1) any order of the Commission with respect to such person pursuant to section 5e of the Act;
(2) any conviction or injunction within the past 10 years;
(3) any disciplinary action with respect to such person within the last five (5) years;
(4) any disqualification under sections 8b and 8d of the Act;
(5) any disciplinary action under section 8c of the Act; and
(6) any violation pursuant to section 9 of the Act.
h. For directors, list any committees on which the director serves and any compensation received by virtue of their directorship.
16. Attach as Exhibit C, the following information about the chief compliance officer who has been appointed by the board of directors of the swap data repository or a person or group performing a function similar to such board of directors:
a. Name
b. Title
c. Dates of commencement and termination of present term of office or position
d. Length of time the chief compliance officer has held the same office or position
e. Brief account of the business experience of the chief compliance officer over the last five (5) years
f. Any other business affiliations in the derivatives/securities industry or swap data repository industry
g. A description of:
(1) any order of the Commission with respect to such person pursuant to section 5e of the Act;
(2) any conviction or injunction within the past 10 years;
(3) any disciplinary action with respect to such person within the last five (5) years;
(4) any disqualification under sections 8b and 8d of the Act;
(5) any disciplinary action under section 8c of the Act; and
(6) any violation pursuant to section 9 of the Act.
17. Attach as Exhibit D, a copy of documents relating to the governance arrangements of the Applicant, including, but not limited to:
a. The nomination and selection process of the members on the Applicant's board of directors, a person or group performing a function similar to a board of directors (collectively, “board”), or any committee that has the authority to act on behalf of the board, the responsibilities of each of the board and such committee, and the composition of each board and such committee;
b. a description of the manner in which the composition of the board allows the Applicant to comply with applicable core principles, regulations, as well as the rules of the Applicant; and
c. a description of the procedures to remove a member of the board of directors, where the conduct of such member is likely to be prejudicial to the sound and prudent management of the swap data repository.
18. Attach as Exhibit E, a narrative or graphic description of the organizational structure of the Applicant. Note: If the swap data repository activities are conducted primarily by a division, subdivision, or other segregable entity within the Applicant's corporation or organization, describe the relationship of such entity within the overall organizational structure and attach as Exhibit E only such description as applies to the segregable entity. Additionally, provide any relevant jurisdictional information, including
any and all jurisdictions in which the Applicant or any affiliated entity is doing business and registration status, including pending application (e.g., country, regulator, registration category, date of registration). In addition, include a description of the lines of responsibility and accountability for each operational unit of the Applicant to (i) any committee thereof and/or (ii) the board.
19. Attach as Exhibit F, a copy of the conflicts of interest policies and procedures implemented by the Applicant to minimize conflicts of interest in the decision-making process of the swap data repository and to establish a process for the resolution of any such conflicts of interest.
20. Attach as Exhibit G, a list of all affiliates of the swap data repository and indicate the general nature of the affiliation. Provide a copy of any agreements entered into or to be entered by the swap data repository, including partnerships or joint ventures, or its participants, that will enable the Applicant to comply with the registration requirements and core principles specified in section 21 of the Act. With regard to an affiliate that is a parent company of the Applicant, if such parent controls the Applicant, an Applicant must provide (i) the board composition of the parent, including public directors, and (ii) all ownership information requested in Exhibit A for the parent. “Control” for this purpose is defined in Commission Regulation § 49.2(a).
21. Attach as Exhibit H, a copy of the constitution; articles of incorporation or association with all amendments thereto; existing by-laws, rules, or instruments corresponding thereto, of the Applicant. The Applicant shall also provide a certificate of good standing dated within one week of the date of the application.
22. Where the Applicant is a foreign entity seeking registration or filing an amendment to an existing registration, attach as Exhibit I, an opinion of counsel that the swap data repository, as a matter of law, is able to provide the Commission with prompt access to the books and records of such swap data repository and that the swap data repository can submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission.
23. Where the Applicant is a foreign entity seeking registration, attach as Exhibit I-1, a form that designates and authorizes an agent in the United States, other than a Commission official, to accept any notice or service of process, pleadings, or other documents in any action or proceedings brought against the swap data repository to enforce the Act and the regulations thereunder.
24. Attach as Exhibit J, a current copy of the Applicant's rules, as defined in Commission Regulation § 40.1, consisting of all the rules necessary to carry out the duties as a swap data repository.
25. Attach as Exhibit K, a description of the Applicant's internal disciplinary and enforcement protocols, tools, and procedures. Include the procedures for dispute resolution.
26. Attach as Exhibit L, a brief description of any material pending legal proceeding(s), other than ordinary and routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the Applicant or any of its affiliates is a party or to which any of its or their property is the subject. Include the name of the court or agency in which the proceeding(s) are pending, the date(s) instituted, and the principal parties thereto, a description of the factual basis alleged to underlie the proceeding(s) and the relief sought. Include similar information as to any such proceeding(s) known to be contemplated by the governmental agencies.

# EXHIBITS II—FINANCIAL INFORMATION
27. Attach as Exhibit M, a balance sheet, statement of income and expenses, statement of sources and application of revenues, and all notes or schedules thereto, as of the most recent fiscal year of the Applicant. If a balance sheet and statements certified by an independent public accountant are available, such balance sheet and statement shall be submitted as Exhibit M.
28. Attach as Exhibit N, a balance sheet and an income and expense statement for each affiliate of the swap data repository that also engages in swap data repository activities as of the end of the most recent fiscal year of each such affiliate.
29. Attach as Exhibit O, the following:
a. A complete list of all dues, fees, and other charges imposed, or to be imposed, by or on behalf of Applicant for its swap data repository services and identify the service or services provided for each such due, fee, or other charge.
b. Furnish a description of the basis and methods used in determining the level and structure of the dues, fees, and other charges listed in paragraph a of this item.
c. If the Applicant differentiates, or proposes to differentiate, among its customers, or classes of customers in the amount of any dues, fees, or other charges imposed for the same or similar services, so state and indicate the amount of each differential. In addition, identify and describe any differences in the cost of providing such services, and any other factors, that account for such differentiations.

# EXHIBITS III—OPERATIONAL CAPABILITY
30. Attach as Exhibit P, copies of all material contracts with any swap execution facility, designated contract market, clearing agency, central counterparty, or third party service provider. To the extent that form contracts are used by the Applicant, submit
a sample of each type of form contract used. In addition, include a list of swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, clearing agencies, central counterparties, and third party service providers with whom the Applicant has entered into material contracts. Where swap data repository functions are performed by a third-party, attach any agreements between or among the Applicant and such third party, and identify the services that will be provided.
31. Attach as Exhibit Q, any technical manuals, other guides or instructions for users of, or participants in, the market.
32. Attach as Exhibit R, a description of system test procedures, test conducted or test results that will enable the Applicant to comply, or demonstrate the Applicant's ability to comply, with the core principles for swap data repositories.
33. Attach as Exhibit S, a description in narrative form, or by the inclusion of functional specifications, of each service or function performed as a swap data repository. Include in Exhibit S a description of all procedures utilized for the collection, processing, distribution, publication, and retention (e.g., magnetic tape) of information with respect to transactions or positions in, or the terms and conditions of, swaps entered into by market participants.
34. Attach as Exhibit T, a list of all computer hardware utilized by the Applicant to perform swap data repository functions, indicating where such equipment (terminals and other access devices) is physically located.
35. Attach as Exhibit U, a description of the personnel qualifications for each category of professional employees employed by the swap data repository or the division, subdivision, or other segregable entity within the swap data repository as described in Item 16.
36. Attach as Exhibit V, a description of the measures or procedures implemented by Applicant to provide for the security of any system employed to perform the functions of a swap data repository. Include a general description of any physical and operational safeguards designed to prevent unauthorized access (whether by input or retrieval) to the system. Describe any circumstances within the past year in which the described security measures or safeguards failed to prevent any such unauthorized access to the system and any measures taken to prevent a reoccurrence. Describe any measures used to verify the accuracy of information received or disseminated by the system.
37. Attach as Exhibit W, copies of emergency policies and procedures and Applicant's business continuity-disaster recovery plan. Include a general description of any business continuity-disaster recovery resources, emergency procedures, and backup facilities sufficient to enable timely recovery and resumption of its operations and resumption of its ongoing fulfillment of its duties and obligations as a swap data repository following any disruption of its operations.
38. Where swap data repository functions are performed by automated facilities or systems, attach as Exhibit X a description of all backup systems or subsystems that are designed to prevent interruptions in the performance of any swap data repository function as a result of technical malfunctions or otherwise in the system itself, in any permitted input or output system connection, or as a result of any independent source. Include a narrative description of each type of interruption that has lasted for more than two minutes and has occurred within the six (6) months preceding the date of the filing, including the date of each interruption, the cause, and duration. Also state the total number of interruptions that have lasted two minutes or less.
39. Attach as Exhibit Y, the following:
a. For each of the swap data repository functions:
(1) Quantify in appropriate units of measure the limits on the swap data repository's capacity to receive (or collect), process, store, or display (or disseminate for display or other use) the data elements included within each function (e.g., number of inquiries from remote terminals);
(2) identify the factors (mechanical, electronic, or other) that account for the current limitations reported in answer to (1) on the swap data repository's capacity to receive (or collect), process, store, or display (or disseminate for display or other use) the data elements included within each function.
b. If the Applicant is able to employ, or presently employs, the central processing units of its system(s) for any use other than for performing the functions of a swap data repository, state the priorities of assignment of capacity between such functions and such other uses, and state the methods used or able to be used to divert capacity between such functions and such other uses.

# EXHIBITS IV—ACCESS TO SERVICES
40. Attach as Exhibit Z, the following:
a. As to each swap data repository service that the Applicant provides, state the number of persons who presently utilize, or who have notified the Applicant of their intention to utilize, the services of the swap data repository.
b. For each instance during the past year in which any person has been prohibited or limited in respect of access to services offered by the Applicant as a swap data repository, indicate the name of each such person and the reason for the prohibition or limitation.
c. Define the data elements for purposes of the swap data repository's real-time public reporting obligation. Appendix A to Part 43
of the Commission's Regulations (Data Elements and Form for Real-Time Reporting for Particular Markets and Contracts) sets forth the specific data elements for real-time public reporting.
41. Attach as Exhibit AA, copies of any agreements governing the terms by which information may be shared by the swap data repository, including with market participants. To the extent that form contracts are used by the Applicant, submit a sample of each type of form contract used.
42. Attach as Exhibit BB, a description of any specifications, qualifications, or other criteria that limit, are interpreted to limit, or have the effect of limiting access to or use of any swap data repository services furnished by the Applicant and state the reasons for imposing such specifications, qualifications, or other criteria, including whether such specifications, qualifications, or other criteria are imposed.
43. Attach as Exhibit CC, any specifications, qualifications, or other criteria required of participants who utilize the services of the Applicant for collection, processing, preparing for distribution, or public dissemination by the Applicant.
44. Attach as Exhibit DD, any specifications, qualifications, or other criteria required of any person, including, but not limited to, regulators, market participants, market infrastructures, venues from which data could be submitted to the Applicant, and third party service providers who request access to data maintained by the Applicant.
45. Attach as Exhibit EE, policies and procedures implemented by the Applicant to review any prohibition or limitation of any person with respect to access to services offered or data maintained by the Applicant and to grant such person access to such services or data if such person has been discriminated against unfairly.

# EXHIBITS V—OTHER POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
46. Attach as Exhibit FF, a narrative and supporting documents that may be provided under other Exhibits herein, that describes the manner in which the Applicant is able to comply with each core principle and other requirements pursuant to Commission Regulation § 49.19.
47. Attach as Exhibit GG, policies and procedures implemented by the Applicant to protect the privacy of any and all SDR data, section 8 material, and SDR information that the swap data repository receives from reporting entities.
48. Attach as Exhibit HH, a description of safeguards, policies, and procedures implemented by the Applicant to prevent the misappropriation or misuse of (a) any confidential information received by the Applicant, including, but not limited to, SDR data, section 8 material, and SDR information, about a market participant or any of its customers; and/or (b) intellectual property by Applicant or any person associated with the Applicant for their personal benefit or the benefit of others.
49. Attach as Exhibit II, policies and procedures implemented by the Applicant regarding its use of the SDR data, section 8 material, and SDR information that it receives from a market participant, any registered entity, or any person for non-commercial and/or commercial purposes.
50. Attach as Exhibit JJ, procedures and a description of facilities of the Applicant for effectively resolving disputes over the accuracy of the SDR data and positions that are maintained by the swap data repository.
51. Attach as Exhibit KK, policies and procedures relating to the Applicant's calculation of positions.
52. Attach as Exhibit LL, policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to prevent any provision in a valid swap from being invalidated or modified through the procedures or operations of the Applicant.
53. Attach as Exhibit MM, Applicant's policies and procedures that ensure that the SDR data that are maintained by the Applicant continues to be maintained after the Applicant withdraws from registration as a swap data repository, which shall include procedures for transferring the SDR data to the Commission or its designee (including another swap data repository).
[85 FR 75663, Nov. 25, 2020]
Pt. 49, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 49—Confidentiality Arrangement for Appropriate Domestic Regulators and Appropriate Foreign Regulators to Obtain Access to Swap Data Maintained by Swap Data Respositories Pursuant to §§ 49.17(
d

# )(6) and 49.18(
a

# )
ER25NO20.042
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the [
name of foreign/domestic regulator
(“ABC”)] (each an “Authority” and collectively the “Authorities”) have entered into this Confidentiality Arrangement (“Arrangement”) in connection with [whichever is applicable] [CFTC Regulation 49.17(b)(1)[(i)-(vi)]/the determination order issued by the CFTC to [ABC] (“Order”)] and any request for swap data by [ABC] to any swap data repository (“SDR”) registered or provisionally registered with the CFTC.

# Article One: General Provisions
1. ABC is permitted to request and receive swap data directly from an SDR (“Swap Data”) on the terms and subject to the conditions of this Arrangement.
2. This Arrangement is entered into to fulfill the requirements under Section 21(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”) and CFTC Regulation 49.18. Upon receipt by an SDR, this Arrangement will satisfy the requirement for a written agreement pursuant to Section 21(d) of the Act and CFTC Regulation 49.17(d)(6). This Arrangement does not apply to information that is [reported to an SDR pursuant to [ABC]'s regulatory regime where the SDR also is registered with [ABC] pursuant to separate statutory authority, even if such information also is reported pursuant to the Act and CFTC regulations][reported to an SDR pursuant to [ABC]'s regulatory regime where the SDR also is registered with, or recognized or otherwise authorized by, [ABC], which has supervisory authority over the repository pursuant to foreign law and/or regulation, even if such information also is reported pursuant to the Act and CFTC regulations.]
1
1
The first bracketed phrase will be used for ADRs; the second will be used for AFRs. The inapplicable phrase will be deleted.
3. This Arrangement is not intended to limit or condition the discretion of an Authority in any way in the discharge of its regulatory responsibilities or to prejudice the individual responsibilities or autonomy of any Authority.
4. This Arrangement does not alter the terms and conditions of any existing arrangements.

# Article Two: Confidentiality of Swap Data
5. ABC will be acting within the scope of its jurisdiction in requesting Swap Data and employs procedures to maintain the confidentiality of Swap Data and any information and analyses derived therefrom (collectively, the “Confidential Information”). ABC undertakes to notify the CFTC and each relevant SDR promptly of any change to ABC's scope of jurisdiction.
6. ABC undertakes to treat Confidential Information as confidential and will employ safeguards that:
a. To the maximum extent practicable, identify the Confidential Information and maintain it separately from other data and information;
b. Protect the Confidential Information from misappropriation and misuse;
c. Ensure that only authorized ABC personnel with a need to access particular Confidential Information to perform their job functions related to such Confidential Information have access thereto, and that such access is permitted only to the extent necessary to perform their job functions related to such particular Confidential Information;
d. Prevent the disclosure of aggregated Confidential Information; provided, however, that ABC is permitted to disclose any sufficiently aggregated Confidential Information that is anonymized to prevent identification, through disaggregation or otherwise, of a market participant's business transactions,
trade data, market positions, customers, or counterparties;
e. Prohibit use of the Confidential Information by ABC personnel for any improper purpose, including in connection with trading for their personal benefit or for the benefit of others or with respect to any commercial or business purpose; and
f. Include a process for monitoring compliance with the confidentiality safeguards described herein and for promptly notifying the CFTC, and each SDR from which ABC has received Swap Data, of any violation of such safeguards or failure to fulfill the terms of this Arrangement.
7. Except as provided in Paragraphs 6.d. and 8, ABC will not onward share or otherwise disclose any Confidential Information.
8. ABC undertakes that:
a. If a department, central bank, or agency of the Government of the United States, it will not disclose Confidential Information except in an action or proceeding under the laws of the United States to which it, the CFTC, or the United States is a party;
b. If a department or agency of a State or political subdivision thereof, it will not disclose Confidential Information except in connection with an adjudicatory action or proceeding brought under the Act or the laws of [
name of either the State or the State and political subdivision
] to which it is a party; or
c. If a foreign futures authority or a department, central bank, ministry, or agency of a foreign government or subdivision thereof, or any other Foreign Regulator, as defined in Commission Regulation 49.2(a)(5), it will not disclose Confidential Information except in connection with an adjudicatory action or proceeding brought under the laws of [
name of country, political subdivision, or (if a supranational organization) supranational lawmaking body
] to which it is a party.
9. Prior to complying with any legally enforceable demand for Confidential Information, ABC will notify the CFTC of such demand in writing, assert all available appropriate legal exemptions or privileges with respect to such Confidential Information, and use its best efforts to protect the confidentiality of the Confidential Information.
10. ABC acknowledges that, if it does not fulfill the terms of this Arrangement, the CFTC may direct any SDR to suspend or revoke ABC's access to Swap Data.
11. ABC will comply with all applicable security-related requirements imposed by an SDR in connection with access to Swap Data maintained by the SDR, as such requirements may be revised from time to time.
12. ABC will promptly destroy all Confidential Information for which it no longer has a need or which no longer falls within the scope of its jurisdiction, and will certify to the CFTC, upon request, that ABC has destroyed such Confidential Information.

# Article Three: Administrative Provisions
13. This Arrangement may be amended with the written consent of the Authorities.
14. The text of this Arrangement will be executed in English, and may be made available to the public.
15. On the date this Arrangement is signed by the Authorities, it will become effective and may be provided to any SDR that holds and maintains Swap Data that falls within the scope of ABC's jurisdiction.
16. This Arrangement will expire 30 days after any Authority gives written notice to the other Authority of its intention to terminate the Arrangement. In the event of termination of this Arrangement, Confidential Information will continue to remain confidential and will continue to be covered by this Arrangement.
This Arrangement is executed in duplicate, this ____day of ____.
[
name of Chairman
] [
name of signatory
]
Chairman, [
title
]
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission [
name of foreign/domestic regulator
]
[Exhibit A: Description of Scope of Jurisdiction. If ABC is not enumerated in Commission Regulations 49.17(b)(1)(i)-(vi), it must attach the Determination Order received from the Commission pursuant to Commission Regulation 49.17(h). If ABC is enumerated in Commission Regulations 49.17(b)(1)(i)-(vi), it must attach a sufficiently detailed description of the scope of ABC's jurisdiction as it relates to Swap Data maintained by SDRs. In both cases, the description of the scope of jurisdiction must include elements allowing SDRs to establish, without undue obstacles, objective parameters for determining whether a particular Swap Data request falls within such scope of jurisdiction. Such elements could include legal entity identifiers of all jurisdictional entities and could also include unique product identifiers of all jurisdictional products or, if no CFTC-approved unique product identifier and product classification system is yet available, the internal product identifier or product description used by an SDR from which Swap Data is to be sought.]
[85 FR 75671, Nov. 25, 2020]
Pt. 50

# PART 50—CLEARING REQUIREMENT AND RELATED RULES

# Subpart A—Definitions and Clearing Requirement
Sec.
50.1
Definitions.
50.2
Treatment of swaps subject to a clearing requirement.
50.3
Notice to the public.
50.4
Classes of swaps required to be cleared.
50.5
Swaps exempt from a clearing requirement.
50.6
Delegation of authority.
50.7-50.9
[Reserved]
50.10
Prevention of evasion of the clearing requirement and abuse of an exception or exemption to the clearing requirement.
50.11-50.24
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Clearing Requirement Compliance Schedule and Compliance Dates
50.25
Clearing requirement compliance schedule.
50.26
Swap clearing requirement compliance dates.
50.27-50.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Exceptions and Exemptions from the Clearing Requirement
50.50
Non-financial end-user exception to the clearing requirement.
50.51
Cooperatives exempt from the clearing requirement.
50.52
Affiliated entities exempt from the clearing requirement.
50.53
Banks, savings associations, farm credit system institutions, and credit unions exempt from the clearing requirement.
Subpart D—Swaps Not Subject to the Clearing Requirement
50.75
Swaps entered into by central banks or sovereign entities.
50.76
Swaps entered into by international financial institutions.
50.77
Interest rate swaps entered into by community development financial institutions.
50.78
Swaps entered into by bank holding companies.
50.79
Swaps entered into by savings and loan holding companies.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2(h), 6(c), and 7a-1, as amended by Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376.

# Source:
77 FR 44455, July 30, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions and Clearing Requirement

# Source:
77 FR 74335, Dec. 13, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 50.1
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part,
Business day
means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
Day of execution
means the calendar day of the party to the swap that ends latest, provided that if a swap is:
(1) Entered into after 4:00 p.m. in the location of a party; or
(2) Entered into on a day that is not a business day in the location of a party, then such swap shall be deemed to have been entered into by that party on the immediately succeeding business day of that party, and the day of execution shall be determined with reference to such business day.
§ 50.2
Treatment of swaps subject to a clearing requirement.
(a) All persons executing a swap that:
(1) Is not subject to an exception under section 2(h)(7) of the Act or § 50.50 of this part; and
(2) Is included in a class of swaps identified in § 50.4 of this part, shall submit such swap to any eligible derivatives clearing organization that accepts such swap for clearing as soon as technologically practicable after execution, but in any event by the end of the day of execution.
(b) Each person subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall undertake reasonable efforts to verify whether a swap is required to be cleared.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, persons that are not clearing members of an eligible derivatives clearing organization shall be deemed to have complied with paragraph (a) of this section upon submission of such swap to a futures commission merchant or clearing member of a derivatives clearing organization, provided that submission occurs as soon as technologically practicable after execution, but in any event by the end of the day of execution.
§ 50.3
Notice to the public.
(a) In addition to its obligations under § 39.21(c)(1), each derivatives clearing organization shall make publicly available on its Web site a list of all swaps that it will accept for clearing and identify which swaps on the list are required to be cleared under section 2(h)(1) of the Act and this part.
(b) The Commission shall maintain a current list of all swaps that are required to be cleared and all derivatives clearing organizations that are eligible to clear such swaps on its Web site.
§ 50.4
Classes of swaps required to be cleared.
(a)
Interest rate swaps.
Swaps that have the following specifications are required to be cleared under section 2(h)(1) of the Act, and shall be cleared pursuant to the rules of any derivatives clearing organization eligible to clear such swaps under § 39.5(a) of this chapter.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)
Specification
Fixed-to-floating swap class
1. Currency
Australian Dollar (AUD)
Canadian Dollar (CAD)
Euro (EUR)
Hong Kong Dollar (HKD)
Mexican Peso (MXN)
Norwegian Krone (NOK)
Polish Zloty (PLN)
Swedish Krona (SEK).
2. Floating Rate Indexes
BBSW
CDOR
EURIBOR
HIBOR
TIIE-BANXICO
NIBOR
WIBOR
STIBOR.
3. Stated Termination Date Range
28 days to 30 years
28 days to 30 years
28 days to 50 years
28 days to 10 years
28 days to 21 years
28 days to 10 years
28 days to 10 years
28 days to 15 years.
4. Optionality
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No.
5. Dual Currencies
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No.
6. Conditional Notional Amounts
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
a
)
Specification
Basis swap class
1. Currency
Australian Dollar (AUD)
Euro (EUR).
2. Floating Rate Indexes
BBSW
EURIBOR.
3. Stated Termination Date Range
28 days to 30 years
28 days to 50 years.
4. Optionality
No
No.
5. Dual Currencies
No
No.
6. Conditional Notional Amounts
No
No.
Table 3 to Paragraph (
a
)
Specification
Forward rate agreement class
1. Currency
Euro (EUR)
Polish Zloty (PLN)
Norwegian Krone (NOK)
Swedish Krona (SEK).
2. Floating Rate Indexes
EURIBOR
WIBOR
NIBOR
STIBOR.
3. Stated Termination Date Range
3 days to 3 years
3 days to 2 years
3 days to 2 years
3 days to 3 years.
4. Optionality
No
No
No
No.
5. Dual Currencies
No
No
No
No.
6. Conditional Notional Amounts
No
No
No
No.
Table 4 to Paragraph (
a
)
Specification
Overnight index swap class
1. Currency
Australian Dollar (AUD)
Canadian Dollar (CAD)
Euro (EUR)
Singapore Dollar (SGD)
Sterling (GBP)
Swiss Franc (CHF)
U.S. Dollar (USD)
U.S. Dollar (USD)
Yen (JPY).
2. Floating Rate Indexes
AONIA-OIS
CORRA-OIS
€STR
SORA
SONIA
SARON
FedFunds
SOFR
TONA.
3. Stated Termination Date Range
7 days to 2 years
7 days to 2 years
7 days to 3 years
7 days to 10 years
7 days to 50 years
7 days to 30 years
7 days to 3 years
7 days to 50 years
7 days to 30 years.
4. Optionality
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No.
5. Dual Currencies
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No.
6. Conditional Notional Amounts
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No.
(b)
Credit default swaps.
Swaps that have the following specifications are required to be cleared under section 2(h)(1) of the Act, and shall be cleared pursuant to the rules of any derivatives clearing organization eligible to clear such swaps under § 39.5(a) of this chapter.
Specification
North American untranched CDS indices class
Reference Entities
Corporate.
Region
North America.
Indices
CDX.NA.IG; CDX.NA.HY.
Tenor
CDX.NA.IG: 3Y, 5Y, 7Y, 10Y; CDX.NA.HY: 5Y.
Applicable Series
CDX.NA.IG 3Y: Series 15 and all subsequent Series, up to and including the current Series.
CDX.NA.IG 5Y: Series 11 and all subsequent Series, up to and including the current Series.
CDX.NA.IG 7Y: Series 8 and all subsequent Series, up to and including the current Series.
CDX.NA.IG 10Y: Series 8 and all subsequent Series, up to and including the current Series.
CDX.NA.HY 5Y: Series 11 and all subsequent Series, up to and including the current Series.
Tranched
No.
Specification
European untranched CDS indices class
Reference Entities
Corporate.
Region
Europe.
Indices
iTraxx Europe.
iTraxx Europe Crossover.
iTraxx Europe HiVol.
Tenor
iTraxx Europe: 5Y, 10Y.
iTraxx Europe Crossover: 5Y.
iTraxx Europe HiVol: 5Y.
Applicable Series
iTraxx Europe 5Y: Series 10 and all subsequent Series, up to and including the current Series.
iTraxx Europe 10Y: Series 7 and all subsequent Series, up to and including the current Series.
iTraxx Europe Crossover 5Y: Series 10 and all subsequent Series, up to and including the current Series.
iTraxx Europe HiVol 5Y: Series 10 and all subsequent Series, up to and including the current Series.
Tranched
No.
[77 FR 74335, Dec. 13, 2012, as amended at 87 FR 52216, Aug. 24, 2022]
§ 50.5
Swaps exempt from a clearing requirement.
(a) Swaps entered into before July 21, 2010 shall be exempt from the clearing requirement under § 50.2 of this part if reported to a swap data repository pursuant to section 2(h)(5)(A) of the Act and § 46.3(a) of this chapter.
(b) Swaps entered into before the application of the clearing requirement for a particular class of swaps under §§ 50.2 and 50.4 of this part shall be exempt from the clearing requirement if reported to a swap data repository pursuant to section 2(h)(5)(B) of the Act and either § 46.3(a) or §§ 45.3 and 45.4 of this chapter, as appropriate.
§ 50.6
Delegation of Authority.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, with the consultation of the General Counsel or such other employee or employees as the General Counsel may designate from time to time, the authority:
(1) After prior notice to the Commission, to determine whether one or more swaps submitted by a derivatives clearing organization under § 39.5 falls within a class of swaps as described in § 50.4, provided that inclusion of such swaps is consistent with the Commission's clearing requirement determination for that class of swaps; and
(2) To notify all relevant derivatives clearing organizations of that determination.
(b) The Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated in
this section. Nothing in this section prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
§ 50.7-50.9
[Reserved]
§ 50.10
Prevention of evasion of the clearing requirement and abuse of an exception or exemption to the clearing requirement.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or recklessly evade or participate in or facilitate an evasion of the requirements of section 2(h) of the Act or any Commission rule or regulation promulgated thereunder.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse the exception to the clearing requirement as provided under section 2(h)(7) of the Act or an exception or exemption under this chapter.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse any exemption or exception to the requirements of section 2(h) of the Act, including any exemption or exception as the Commission may provide by rule, regulation, or order.
§ 50.11-50.24
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Clearing Requirement Compliance Schedule and Compliance Dates
§ 50.25
Clearing requirement compliance schedule.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
Active fund
means any private fund as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, that is not a third-party subaccount and that executes 200 or more swaps per month based on a monthly average over the 12 months preceding the Commission issuing a clearing requirement determination under section 2(h)(2) of the Act.
Category 1 Entity
means a swap dealer, a security-based swap dealer; a major swap participant; a major security-based swap participant; or an active fund.
Category 2 Entity
means a commodity pool; a private fund as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 other than an active fund; or a person predominantly engaged in activities that are in the business of banking, or in activities that are financial in nature as defined in section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, provided that, in each case, the entity is not a third-party subaccount.
Third-party Subaccount
means an account that is managed by an investment manager that is independent of and unaffiliated with the account's beneficial owner or sponsor, and is responsible for the documentation necessary for the account's beneficial owner to clear swaps.
(b) Upon issuing a clearing requirement determination under section 2(h)(2) of the Act, the Commission may determine, based on the group, category, type, or class of swaps subject to such determination, that the following schedule for compliance with the requirements of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act shall apply:
(1) A swap between a Category 1 Entity and another Category 1 Entity, or any other entity that desires to clear the transaction, must comply with the requirements of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act no later than ninety (90) days from the date of publication of such clearing requirement determination in the
Federal Register.
(2) A swap between a Category 2 Entity and a Category 1 Entity, another Category 2 Entity, or any other entity that desires to clear the transaction, must comply with the requirements of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act no later than one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date of publication of such clearing requirement determination in the
Federal Register.
(3) All other swaps for which neither of the parties to the swap is eligible to claim the exception from the clearing requirement set forth in section 2(h)(7) of the Act and § 39.6, must comply with the requirements of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act no later than two hundred and seventy (270) days from the date of publication of such clearing requirement determination in the
Federal Register.
(c) Nothing in this rule shall be construed to prohibit any person from voluntarily complying with the requirements of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act
sooner than the implementation schedule provided under paragraph (b).
[77 FR 44455, July 30, 2012]
§ 50.26
Swap clearing requirement compliance dates.
(a)
Compliance dates for interest rate swap classes.
The compliance dates for swaps that are required to be cleared under § 50.4(a) are specified in the following table.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)
Swap asset class
Swap class subtype
Currency and floating rate index
Stated termination date range
Clearing requirement compliance date
Interest Rate Swap
Fixed-to-Floating
Euro (EUR) EURIBOR
28 days to 50 years
Category 1 entities March 11, 2013. All non-Category 2 entities June 10, 2013. Category 2 entities September 9, 2013.
Interest Rate Swap
Fixed-to-Floating
Australian Dollar (AUD) BBSW
28 days to 30 years
All entities December 13, 2016.
Interest Rate Swap
Fixed-to-Floating
Canadian Dollar (CAD) CDOR
28 days to 30 years
All entities July 10, 2017.
Interest Rate Swap
Fixed-to-Floating
Hong Kong Dollar (HKD) HIBOR
28 days to 10 years
All entities August 30, 2017.
Interest Rate Swap
Fixed-to-Floating
Mexican Peso (MXN) TIIE-BANXICO
28 days to 21 years
All entities December 13, 2016.
Interest Rate Swap
Fixed-to-Floating
Norwegian Krone (NOK) NIBOR
28 days to 10 years
All entities April 10, 2017.
Interest Rate Swap
Fixed-to-Floating
Polish Zloty (PLN) WIBOR
28 days to 10 years
All entities April 10, 2017.
Interest Rate Swap
Fixed-to-Floating
Swedish Krona (SEK) STIBOR
28 days to 15 years
All entities April 10, 2017.
Interest Rate Swap
Basis
Euro (EUR) EURIBOR
28 days to 50 years
Category 1 entities March 11, 2013. All non-Category 2 entities June 10, 2013. Category 2 entities September 9, 2013.
Interest Rate Swap
Basis
Australian Dollar (AUD) BBSW
28 days to 30 years
All entities December 13, 2016.
Interest Rate Swap
Forward Rate Agreement
Euro (EUR) EURIBOR
3 days to 3 years
Category 1 entities March 11, 2013. All non-Category 2 entities June 10, 2013. Category 2 entities September 9, 2013.
Interest Rate Swap
Forward Rate Agreement
Polish Zloty (PLN) WIBOR
3 days to 2 years
All entities April 10, 2017.
Interest Rate Swap
Forward Rate Agreement
Norwegian Krone (NOK) NIBOR
3 days to 2 years
All entities April 10, 2017.
Interest Rate Swap
Forward Rate Agreement
Swedish Krona (SEK) STIBOR
3 days to 3 years
All entities April 10, 2017.
Interest Rate Swap
Overnight Index Swap
Euro (EUR) €STR
7 days to 3 years
All entities September 23, 2022.
Interest Rate Swap
Overnight Index Swap
Singapore Dollar (SGD) SORA
7 days to 10 years
All entities October 31, 2022.
Interest Rate Swap
Overnight Index Swap
Sterling (GBP) SONIA
7 days to 2 years
Category 1 entities March 11, 2013. All non-Category 2 entities June 10, 2013. Category 2 entities September 9, 2013.
2 years + 1 day to 3 years
All entities December 13, 2016.
3 years + 1 day to 50 years
All entities September 23, 2022.
Interest Rate Swap
Overnight Index Swap
Swiss Franc (CHF) SARON
7 days to 30 years
All entities September 23, 2022.
Interest Rate Swap
Overnight Index Swap
U.S. Dollar (USD) FedFunds
7 days to 2 years
Category 1 entities March 11, 2013. All non-Category 2 entities June 10, 2013. Category 2 entities September 9, 2013.
2 years + 1 day to 3 years
All entities December 13, 2016.
Interest Rate Swap
Overnight Index Swap
U.S. Dollar (USD) SOFR
7 days to 50 years
All entities October 31, 2022.
Interest Rate Swap
Overnight Index Swap
Australian Dollar (AUD) AONIA-OIS
7 days to 2 years
All entities December 13, 2016.
Interest Rate Swap
Overnight Index Swap
Canadian Dollar (CAD) CORRA-OIS
7 days to 2 years
All entities July 10, 2017.
Interest Rate Swap
Overnight Index Swap
Yen (JPY) TONA
7 days to 30 years
All entities September 23, 2022.
(b)
Compliance dates for credit default swap classes.
The compliance dates for swaps that are required to be cleared under § 50.4(b) are specified in the following table.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
b
)
Swap asset class
Swap class subtype
Indices
Tenor
Clearing requirement compliance date
Credit Default Swap
North American untranched CDS indices
CDX.NA.IG
3Y, 5Y, 7Y, 10Y
Category 1 entities March 11, 2013. All non-Category 2 entities June 10, 2013. Category 2 entities September 9, 2013.
Credit Default Swap
North American untranched CDS indices
CDX.NA.HY
5Y
Category 1 entities March 11, 2013. All non-Category 2 entities June 10, 2013. Category 2 entities September 9, 2013.
Credit Default Swap
European untranched CSD indices
iTraxx Europe
5Y, 10Y
Category 1 entities April 26, 2013. Category 2 entities July 25, 2013. All non-Category 2 entities October 23, 2013.
Credit Default Swap
European untranched CSD indices
iTraxx Europe Crossover
5Y
Category 1 entities April 26, 2013. Category 2 entities July 25, 2013. All non-Category 2 entities October 23, 2013.
Credit Default Swap
European untranched CSD indices
iTraxx Europe HiVol
5Y
Category 1 entities April 26, 2013. Category 2 entities July 25, 2013. All non-Category 2 entities October 23, 2013.
[87 FR 52217, Aug. 24, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 52218, Aug. 24, 2022]
§§ 50.27-50.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Exceptions and Exemptions from the Clearing Requirement

# Source:
77 FR 74337, Dec. 13, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 50.50
Non-financial end-user exception to the clearing requirement.
(a)
Non-financial entities.
(1) A counterparty to a swap may elect the exception to the clearing requirement under section 2(h)(7)(A) of the Act if the counterparty:
(i) Is not a “financial entity” as defined in section 2(h)(7)(C)(i) of the Act;
(ii) Is using the swap to hedge or mitigate commercial risk as provided in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(iii) Provides, or causes to be provided, the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section to a registered swap data repository or, if no registered swap data repository is available to receive the information from the reporting counterparty, to the Commission. A counterparty that satisfies the criteria in this paragraph (a)(1) and elects the exception is an “electing counterparty.”
(2) If there is more than one electing counterparty to a swap, the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall be provided with respect to each of the electing counterparties.
(b)
Reporting.
(1) When a counterparty elects the exception to the clearing requirement under section 2(h)(7)(A) of the Act, one of the
counterparties to the swap (the “reporting counterparty,” as determined in accordance with § 45.8 of this part) shall provide, or cause to be provided, the following information to a registered swap data repository or, if no registered swap data repository is available to receive the information from the reporting counterparty, to the Commission, in the form and manner specified by the Commission:
(i) Notice of the election of the exception;
(ii) The identity of the electing counterparty to the swap; and
(iii) The following information, unless such information has previously been provided by the electing counterparty in a current annual filing pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section:
(A) Whether the electing counterparty is a “financial entity” as defined in section 2(h)(7)(C)(i) of the Act, and if the electing counterparty is a financial entity, whether it is:
(
1
) Electing the exception in accordance with section 2(h)(7)(C)(iii) or section 2(h)(7)(D) of the Act; or
(
2
) Exempt from the definition of “financial entity” as described in § 50.53;
(B) Whether the swap or swaps for which the electing counterparty is electing the exception are used by the electing counterparty to hedge or mitigate commercial risk as provided in paragraph (c) of this section;
(C) How the electing counterparty generally meets its financial obligations associated with entering into non-cleared swaps by identifying one or more of the following categories, as applicable:
(
1
) A written credit support agreement;
(
2
) Pledged or segregated assets (including posting or receiving margin pursuant to a credit support agreement or otherwise);
(
3
) A written third-party guarantee;
(
4
) The electing counterparty's available financial resources; or
(
5
) Means other than those described in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(C)(
1
), (
2
), (
3
) or (
4
) of this section; and
(D) Whether the electing counterparty is an entity that is an issuer of securities registered under section 12 of, or is required to file reports under section 15(d) of, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and if so:
(
1
) The relevant SEC Central Index Key number for that counterparty; and
(
2
) Whether an appropriate committee of that counterparty's board of directors (or equivalent body) has reviewed and approved the decision to enter into swaps that are exempt from the requirements of sections 2(h)(1) and 2(h)(8) of the Act.
(2) An entity that qualifies for an exception to the clearing requirement under this section may report the information listed in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section annually in anticipation of electing the exception for one or more swaps. Any such reporting under this paragraph shall be effective for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section for swaps entered into by the entity for 365 days following the date of such reporting. During such period, the entity shall amend such information as necessary to reflect any material changes to the information reported.
(3) Each reporting counterparty shall have a reasonable basis to believe that the electing counterparty meets the requirements for an exception to the clearing requirement under this section.
(c)
Hedging or mitigating commercial risk.
For purposes of section 2(h)(7)(A)(ii) of the Act and paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, a swap is used to hedge or mitigate commercial risk if:
(1) Such swap:
(i) Is economically appropriate to the reduction of risks in the conduct and management of a commercial enterprise, where the risks arise from:
(A) The potential change in the value of assets that a person owns, produces, manufactures, processes, or merchandises or reasonably anticipates owning, producing, manufacturing, processing, or merchandising in the ordinary course of business of the enterprise;
(B) The potential change in the value of liabilities that a person has incurred or reasonably anticipates incurring in the ordinary course of business of the enterprise;
(C) The potential change in the value of services that a person provides, purchases, or reasonably anticipates providing or purchasing in the ordinary course of business of the enterprise;
(D) The potential change in the value of assets, services, inputs, products, or commodities that a person owns, produces, manufactures, processes, merchandises, leases, or sells, or reasonably anticipates owning, producing, manufacturing, processing, merchandising, leasing, or selling in the ordinary course of business of the enterprise;
(E) Any potential change in value related to any of the foregoing arising from interest, currency, or foreign exchange rate movements associated with such assets, liabilities, services, inputs, products, or commodities; or
(F) Any fluctuation in interest, currency, or foreign exchange rate exposures arising from a person's current or anticipated assets or liabilities; or
(ii) Qualifies as bona fide hedging for purposes of an exemption from position limits under the Act; or
(iii) Qualifies for hedging treatment under:
(A) Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (formerly known as Statement No. 133); or
(B) Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement 53, Accounting and Financial Reporting for Derivative Instruments; and
(2) Such swap is:
(i) Not used for a purpose that is in the nature of speculation, investing, or trading; and
(ii) Not used to hedge or mitigate the risk of another swap or security-based swap position, unless that other position itself is used to hedge or mitigate commercial risk as defined by this rule or § 240.3a67-4 of this title.
[77 FR 74337, Dec. 13, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 76448, Nov. 30, 2020]
§ 50.51
Cooperatives exempt from the clearing requirement.
Exemption for cooperatives.
Exempt cooperatives may elect not to clear certain swaps identified in paragraph (b) of this section that are otherwise subject to the clearing requirement of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act if the following requirements are satisfied.
(a) For the purposes of this paragraph, an
exempt cooperative
means a cooperative:
(1) Formed and existing pursuant to Federal or state law as a cooperative;
(2) That is a “financial entity,” as defined in section 2(h)(7)(C)(i) of the Act, solely because of section 2(h)(7)(C)(i)(VIII) of the Act; and
(3) Each member of which is not a “financial entity,” as defined in section 2(h)(7)(C)(i) of the Act, or if any member is a financial entity solely because of section 2(h)(7)(C)(i)(VIII) of the Act, such member is:
(i) Exempt from the definition of “financial entity” pursuant to § 50.53; or
(ii) A cooperative formed under Federal or state law as a cooperative and each member thereof is either not a “financial entity,” as defined in section 2(h)(7)(C)(i) of the Act, or is exempt from the definition of “financial entity” pursuant to § 50.53.
(b) An exempt cooperative may elect not to clear a swap that is subject to the clearing requirement of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act if the swap:
(1) Is entered into with a member of the exempt cooperative in connection with originating loan or loans for the member, which means the requirements of paragraphs (5)(i), (ii), and (iii) of the definition of
swap dealer
in § 1.3 of this chapter are satisfied;
provided that,
for this purpose, the term “insured depository institution” as used in those paragraphs is replaced with the term “exempt cooperative” and the word “customer” is replaced with the word “member”; or
(2) Hedges or mitigates commercial risk, in accordance with § 50.50(c), related to loans to members or arising from a swap or swaps that meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c) An exempt cooperative that elects the exemption provided in this section shall comply with the requirements of § 50.50(b). For this purpose, the exempt cooperative shall be the “electing counterparty,” as such term is used in § 50.50(b), and for purposes of § 50.50(b)(1)(iii)(A), the reporting counterparty, as determined pursuant to § 45.8, shall report that an exemption
is being elected in accordance with this section.
[78 FR 52307, Aug. 22, 2013, as amended at 83 FR 7997, Feb. 23, 2018; 85 FR 76448, Nov. 30, 2020]
§ 50.52
Affiliated entities exempt from the clearing requirement.
(a)
Eligible affiliate counterparty status.
Subject to the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Counterparties to a swap may elect not to clear a swap subject to the clearing requirement of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act and this part if:
(i) One counterparty, directly or indirectly, holds a majority ownership interest in the other counterparty, and the counterparty that holds the majority interest in the other counterparty reports its financial statements on a consolidated basis under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards, and such consolidated financial statements include the financial results of the majority-owned counterparty; or
(ii) A third party, directly or indirectly, holds a majority ownership interest in both counterparties, and the third party reports its financial statements on a consolidated basis under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards, and such consolidated financial statements include the financial results of both of the swap counterparties.
(2) For purposes of this section:
(i) A counterparty or third party directly or indirectly holds a majority ownership interest if it directly or indirectly holds a majority of the equity securities of an entity, or the right to receive upon dissolution, or the contribution of, a majority of the capital of a partnership;
(ii) The term “eligible affiliate counterparty” means an entity that meets the requirements of this paragraph; and
(iii) The term “United States” means the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any State of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
(b)
Additional conditions.
Eligible affiliate counterparties to a swap may elect the exemption described in paragraph (a) of this section if:
(1) Both counterparties elect not to clear the swap;
(2)(i) A swap dealer or major swap participant that is an eligible affiliate counterparty to the swap satisfies the requirements of § 23.504 of this chapter; or
(ii) If neither eligible affiliate counterparty is a swap dealer or major swap participant, the terms of the swap are documented in a swap trading relationship document that shall be in writing and shall include all terms governing the trading relationship between the eligible affiliate counterparties;
(3) The swap is subject to a centralized risk management program that is reasonably designed to monitor and manage the risks associated with the swap. If at least one of the eligible affiliate counterparties is a swap dealer or major swap participant, this centralized risk management requirement shall be satisfied by complying with the requirements of § 23.600 of this chapter; and
(4)(i) Subject to paragraphs (b)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section, each eligible affiliate counterparty that enters into a swap, which is included in a class of swaps identified in § 50.4, with an unaffiliated counterparty shall:
(A) Comply with the requirements for clearing the swap in section 2(h) of the Act and this part;
(B) Comply with the requirements for clearing the swap under a foreign jurisdiction's clearing mandate that is comparable, and comprehensive but not necessarily identical, to the clearing requirement of section 2(h) of the Act and this part, as determined by the Commission;
(C) Comply with an exception or exemption under section 2(h)(7) of the Act or this part;
(D) Comply with an exception or exemption under a foreign jurisdiction's clearing mandate, provided that:
(
1
) The foreign jurisdiction's clearing mandate is comparable, and comprehensive but not necessarily identical, to the clearing requirement of section 2(h) of the Act and this part, as determined by the Commission; and
(
2
) The foreign jurisdiction's exception or exemption is comparable to an exception or exemption under section 2(h)(7) of the Act or this part, as determined by the Commission; or
(E) Clear such swap through a registered derivatives clearing organization or a clearing organization that is subject to supervision by appropriate government authorities in the home country of the clearing organization and has been assessed to be in compliance with the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures.
(ii) If one of the eligible affiliate counterparties is located in Australia, Canada, the European Union, Hong Kong, Japan, Mexico, Singapore, Switzerland, or the United Kingdom and each eligible affiliate counterparty, or a third party that directly or indirectly holds a majority interest in both eligible affiliate counterparties, pays and collects full variation margin daily on all of the eligible affiliate counterparties' swaps with other eligible affiliate counterparties, the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section shall be satisfied.
(iii) If an eligible affiliate counterparty located in the United States enters into swaps, which are included in a class of swaps identified in § 50.4, with eligible affiliate counterparties located in jurisdictions other than Australia, Canada, the European Union, Hong Kong, Japan, Mexico, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, or the United States, and the aggregate notional value of such swaps, which are included in a class of swaps identified in § 50.4, does not exceed five percent of the aggregate notional value of all swaps, which are included in a class of swaps identified in § 50.4, in each instance the notional value as measured in U.S. dollar equivalents and calculated for each calendar quarter, entered into by the eligible affiliate counterparty located in the United States, then the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section shall be satisfied when each eligible affiliate counterparty, or a third party that directly or indirectly holds a majority interest in both eligible affiliate counterparties, pays and collects full variation margin daily on all of the eligible affiliate counterparties' swaps with other eligible affiliate counterparties.
(c)
Reporting requirements.
When the exemption described in paragraph (a) of this section is elected, the reporting counterparty, as determined in accordance with § 45.8 of this chapter, shall provide or cause to be provided the following information to a registered swap data repository or, if no registered swap data repository is available to receive the information from the reporting counterparty, to the Commission, in the form and manner specified by the Commission:
(1) Confirmation that both eligible affiliate counterparties to the swap are electing not to clear the swap and that each of the electing eligible affiliate counterparties satisfies the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section applicable to it;
(2) For each electing eligible affiliate counterparty, how the counterparty generally meets its financial obligations associated with entering into non-cleared swaps by identifying one or more of the following categories, as applicable:
(i) A written credit support agreement;
(ii) Pledged or segregated assets (including posting or receiving margin pursuant to a credit support agreement or otherwise);
(iii) A written guarantee from another party;
(iv) The electing counterparty's available financial resources; or
(v) Means other than those described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section; and
(3) If an electing eligible affiliate counterparty is an entity that is an issuer of securities registered under section 12 of, or is required to file reports under section 15(d) of, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:
(i) The relevant SEC Central Index Key number for that counterparty; and
(ii) Acknowledgment that an appropriate committee of the board of directors (or equivalent body) of the eligible affiliate counterparty has reviewed and approved the decision to enter into swaps that are exempt from the requirements of section 2(h)(1) and 2(h)(8) of the Act.
(d)
Annual reporting.
An eligible affiliate counterparty that qualifies for the exemption described in paragraph (a) of this section may report the information listed in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section annually in anticipation of electing the exemption for one or more swaps. Any such reporting by a reporting counterparty under this paragraph will be effective for purposes of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section for 365 days following the date of such reporting. During the 365-day period, the reporting counterparty shall amend the report as necessary to reflect any material changes to the information reported. Each reporting counterparty shall have a reasonable basis to believe that the eligible affiliate counterparties meet the requirements for the exemption under this section.
[78 FR 21783, Apr. 11, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 44181, July 22, 2020]
§ 50.53
Banks, savings associations, farm credit system institutions, and credit unions exempt from the clearing requirement.
For purposes of section 2(h)(7)(A) of the Act, a person that is a “financial entity” solely because of section 2(h)(7)(C)(i)(VIII) shall be exempt from the definition of “financial entity” and is eligible to elect the exception to the clearing requirement under § 50.50, if such person:
(a) Is organized as a bank, as defined in section 3(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; a savings association, as defined in section 3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; a farm credit system institution chartered under the Farm Credit Act of 1971; or an insured Federal credit union or State-chartered credit union under the Federal Credit Union Act; and
(b) Has total assets of $10,000,000,000 or less on the last day of such person's most recent fiscal year;
(c) Reports, or causes to be reported, the swap to a swap data repository pursuant to §§ 45.3 and 45.4 of this chapter, and reports, or causes to be reported, all information as provided in paragraph (b) of § 50.50 to a swap data repository; and
(d) Is using the swap to hedge or mitigate commercial risk as provided in paragraph (c) of § 50.50.
[85 FR 76448, Nov. 30, 2020]

# Subpart D—Swaps Not Subject to the Clearing Requirement

# Source:
85 FR 76448, Nov. 30, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 50.75
Swaps entered into by central banks or sovereign entities.
Swaps entered into by a central bank or sovereign entity shall be exempt from the clearing requirement of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act.
(a) For the purposes of this section, the term
central bank
means a reserve bank or monetary authority of a central government (including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any of the Federal Reserve Banks) or the Bank for International Settlements.
(b) For the purposes of this section, the term
sovereign entity
means a central government (including the U.S. Government), or an agency, department, or ministry of a central government.
§ 50.76
Swaps entered into by international financial institutions.
(a) Swaps entered into by an international financial institution shall be exempt from the clearing requirement of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
international financial institution
means:
(1) African Development Bank;
(2) African Development Fund;
(3) Asian Development Bank;
(4) Banco Centroamericano de Integración Económica;
(5) Bank for Economic Cooperation and Development in the Middle East and North Africa;
(6) Caribbean Development Bank;
(7) Corporación Andina de Fomento;
(8) Council of Europe Development Bank;
(9) European Bank for Reconstruction and Development;
(10) European Investment Bank;
(11) European Investment Fund;
(12) European Stability Mechanism;
(13) Inter-American Development Bank;
(14) Inter-American Investment Corporation;
(15) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development;
(16) International Development Association;
(17) International Finance Corporation;
(18) International Monetary Fund;
(19) Islamic Development Bank;
(20) Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency;
(21) Nordic Investment Bank;
(22) North American Development Bank; and
(23) Any other entity that provides financing for national or regional development in which the U.S. Government is a shareholder or contributing member.
§ 50.77
Interest rate swaps entered into by community development financial institutions.
(a) For the purposes of this section, the term
community development financial institution
means an entity that satisfies the definition in section 103(5) of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, and is certified by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Community Development Financial Institution Fund as meeting the requirements set forth in 12 CFR 1805.201(b).
(b) A swap entered into by a community development financial institution shall not be subject to the clearing requirement of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act and this part if:
(1) The swap is a U.S. dollar denominated interest rate swap in the fixed-to-floating class or the forward rate agreement class of swaps that would otherwise be subject to the clearing requirement under § 50.4(a);
(2) The total aggregate notional value of all swaps entered into by the community development financial institution during the 365 calendar days prior to the day of execution of the swap is less than or equal to $200,000,000;
(3) The swap is one of ten or fewer swap transactions that the community development financial institution enters into within a period of 365 calendar days;
(4) One of the counterparties to the swap reports the swap to a swap data repository pursuant to §§ 45.3 and 45.4 of this chapter, and reports all information as provided in paragraph (b) of § 50.50 to a swap data repository; and
(5) The swap is used to hedge or mitigate commercial risk as provided in paragraph (c) of § 50.50.
§ 50.78
Swaps entered into by bank holding companies.
(a) For purposes of this section, the term
bank holding company
means an entity that is organized as a bank holding company, as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
(b) A swap entered into by a bank holding company shall not be subject to the clearing requirement of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act and this part if:
(1) The bank holding company has aggregated assets, including the assets of all of its subsidiaries, that do not exceed $10,000,000,000 according to the value of assets of each subsidiary on the last day of each subsidiary's most recent fiscal year;
(2) One of the counterparties to the swap reports the swap to a swap data repository pursuant to §§ 45.3 and 45.4 of this chapter, and reports all information as provided in paragraph (b) of § 50.50 to a swap data repository; and
(3) The swap is used to hedge or mitigate commercial risk as provided in paragraph (c) of § 50.50.
§ 50.79
Swaps entered into by savings and loan holding companies.
(a) For purposes of this section, the term
savings and loan holding company
means an entity that is organized as a savings and loan holding company, as defined in section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933.
(b) A swap entered into by a savings and loan holding company shall not be subject to the clearing requirement of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act and this part if:
(1) The savings and loan holding company has aggregated assets, including the assets of all of its subsidiaries, that do not exceed $10,000,000,000 according
to the value of assets of each subsidiary on the last day of each subsidiary's most recent fiscal year;
(2) One of the counterparties to the swap reports the swap to a swap data repository pursuant to §§ 45.3 and 45.4 of this chapter, and reports all information as provided in paragraph (b) of § 50.50 to a swap data repository; and
(3) The swap is used to hedge or mitigate commercial risk as provided in paragraph (c) of § 50.50.
Pt. 75

# PART 75—PROPRIETARY TRADING AND CERTAIN INTERESTS IN AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH COVERED FUNDS

# Subpart A—Authority and Definitions
Sec.
75.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities.
75.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Proprietary Trading
75.3
Prohibition on proprietary trading.
75.4
Permitted underwriting and market making-related activities.
75.5
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
75.6
Other permitted proprietary trading activities.
75.7
Limitations on permitted proprietary trading activities.
75.8-75.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Covered Fund Activities and Investments
75.10
Prohibition on acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in and having certain relationships with a covered fund.
75.11
Permitted organizing and offering, underwriting, and market making with respect to a covered fund.
75.12
Permitted investment in a covered fund.
75.13
Other permitted covered fund activities and investments.
75.14
Limitations on relationships with a covered fund.
75.15
Other limitations on permitted covered fund activities.
75.16
Ownership of interests in and sponsorship of issuers of certain collateralized debt obligations backed by trust-preferred securities.
75.17-75.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Compliance Program Requirement; Violations
75.20
Program for compliance; reporting.
75.21
Termination of activities or investments; penalties for violations.
Appendix A to Part 75—Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements for Covered Trading Activities

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1851.

# Source:
79 FR 6048, Jan. 31, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Authority and Definitions
§ 75.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Commission under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1851).
(b)
Purpose.
Section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act establishes prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading by, and investments in or relationships with covered funds by, certain banking entities. This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act by defining terms used in the statute and related terms, establishing prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and investments in or relationships with covered funds, and further explaining the statute's requirements.
(c)
Scope.
This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act with respect to banking entities for which the CFTC is the primary financial regulatory agency, as defined in section 2(12) of the Dodd-Frank Act, but does not include such entities to the extent they are not within the definition of banking entity in § 75.2(c).
(d)
Relationship to other authorities.
Except as otherwise provided under section 13 of the BHC Act, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, the prohibitions and restrictions under section 13 of the BHC Act shall apply to the activities of an applicable banking entity, even if such activities are authorized for the applicable banking entity under other applicable provisions of law.
[79 FR 6048, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35021, July 22, 2019]
§ 75.2
Definitions.
Unless otherwise specified, for purposes of this part:
(a)
Affiliate
has the same meaning as in section 2(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(k)).
(b)
Bank holding company
has the same meaning as in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841).
(c)
Banking entity.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section,
banking entity
means:
(i) Any insured depository institution;
(ii) Any company that controls an insured depository institution;
(iii) Any company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(iv) Any affiliate or subsidiary of any entity described in paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(2) Banking entity does not include:
(i) A covered fund that is not itself a banking entity under paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section;
(ii) A portfolio company held under the authority contained in section 4(k)(4)(H) or (I) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(H), (I)), or any portfolio concern, as defined under 13 CFR 107.50, that is controlled by a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662), so long as the portfolio company or portfolio concern is not itself a banking entity under paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section; or
(iii) The FDIC acting in its corporate capacity or as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(d)
Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(e)
CFTC
means the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(f)
Dealer
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(5) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)).
(g)
Depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).
(h)
Derivative.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section,
derivative
means:
(i) Any swap, as that term is defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)), or security-based swap, as that term is defined in section 3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68));
(ii) Any purchase or sale of a commodity, that is not an excluded commodity, for deferred shipment or delivery that is intended to be physically settled;
(iii) Any foreign exchange forward (as that term is defined in section 1a(24) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(24)) or foreign exchange swap (as that term is defined in section 1a(25) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(25));
(iv) Any agreement, contract, or transaction in foreign currency described in section 2(c)(2)(C)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(C)(i));
(v) Any agreement, contract, or transaction in a commodity other than foreign currency described in section 2(c)(2)(D)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(D)(i)); and
(vi) Any transaction authorized under section 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 23(a) or (b));
(2) A derivative does not include:
(i) Any consumer, commercial, or other agreement, contract, or transaction that the CFTC and SEC have further defined by joint regulation, interpretation, or other action as not within the definition of swap, as that term is defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)), or security-based swap, as that term is defined in section 3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)); or
(ii) Any identified banking product, as defined in section 402(b) of the Legal Certainty for Bank Products Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 27(b)), that is subject to section 403(a) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 27a(a)).
(i)
Employee
includes a member of the immediate family of the employee.
(j)
Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
).
(k)
Excluded commodity
has the same meaning as in section 1a(19) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(19)).
(l)
FDIC
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(m)
Federal banking agencies
means the Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the FDIC.
(n)
Foreign banking organization
has the same meaning as in § 211.21(o) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(o)), but does not include a foreign bank, as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7)), that is organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(o)
Foreign insurance regulator
means the insurance commissioner, or a similar official or agency, of any country other than the United States that is engaged in the supervision of insurance companies under foreign insurance law.
(p)
General account
means all of the assets of an insurance company except those allocated to one or more separate accounts.
(q)
Insurance company
means a company that is organized as an insurance company, primarily and predominantly engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks underwritten by insurance companies, subject to supervision as such by a state insurance regulator or a foreign insurance regulator, and not operated for the purpose of evading the provisions of section 13 of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1851).
(r)
Insured depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)), but does not include: (1) An insured depository institution that is described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(D)); or (2) An insured depository institution if it has, and if every company that controls it has, total consolidated assets of $10 billion or less and total trading assets and trading liabilities, on a consolidated basis, that are 5 percent or less of total consolidated assets.
(s)
Limited trading assets and liabilities
means with respect to a banking entity that:
(1)(i) The banking entity has, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 75.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) the average gross sum of which over the previous consecutive four quarters, as measured as of the last day of each of the four previous calendar quarters, is less than $1 billion; and
(ii) The CFTC has not determined pursuant to § 75.20(g) or (h) of this part that the banking entity should not be treated as having limited trading assets and liabilities.
(2) With respect to a banking entity other than a banking entity described in paragraph (s)(3) of this section, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (s) means trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 75.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) on a worldwide consolidated basis.
(3)(i) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization or a subsidiary of a foreign banking organization, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (s) means the trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 75.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) of the combined U.S. operations of the top-tier foreign banking organization (including all subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, and agencies of the foreign banking organization operating, located, or organized in the United States).
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (s)(3)(i) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary. For purposes of paragraph (s)(3)(i) of this section, all foreign operations of a U.S. agency, branch, or subsidiary of a foreign banking organization are considered to be located in the United States, including branches outside the United States that are managed or controlled by a U.S. branch or agency of the foreign banking organization, for purposes
of calculating the banking entity's U.S. trading assets and liabilities.
(t)
Loan
means any loan, lease, extension of credit, or secured or unsecured receivable that is not a security or derivative.
(u)
Moderate trading assets and liabilities
means, with respect to a banking entity, that the banking entity does not have significant trading assets and liabilities or limited trading assets and liabilities.
(v)
Primary financial regulatory agency
has the same meaning as in section 2(12) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5301(12)).
(w)
Purchase
includes any contract to buy, purchase, or otherwise acquire. For security futures products, purchase includes any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a commodity future, purchase includes any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a derivative, purchase includes the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a derivative, as the context may require.
(x)
Qualifying foreign banking organization
means a foreign banking organization that qualifies as such under § 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c), or (e)).
(y)
SEC
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(z)
Sale
and
sell
each include any contract to sell or otherwise dispose of. For security futures products, such terms include any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a commodity future, such terms include any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a derivative, such terms include the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a derivative, as the context may require.
(aa)
Security
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)).
(bb)
Security-based swap dealer
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(71) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71)).
(cc)
Security future
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(55) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(55)).
(dd)
Separate account
means an account established and maintained by an insurance company in connection with one or more insurance contracts to hold assets that are legally segregated from the insurance company's other assets, under which income, gains, and losses, whether or not realized, from assets allocated to such account, are, in accordance with the applicable contract, credited to or charged against such account without regard to other income, gains, or losses of the insurance company.
(ee)
Significant trading assets and liabilities
means with respect to a banking entity that:
(1)(i) The banking entity has, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, trading assets and liabilities the average gross sum of which over the previous consecutive four quarters, as measured as of the last day of each of the four previous calendar quarters, equals or exceeds $20 billion; or
(ii) The CFTC has determined pursuant to § 75.20(h) of this part that the banking entity should be treated as having significant trading assets and liabilities.
(2) With respect to a banking entity, other than a banking entity described in paragraph (ee)(3) of this section, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (ee) means trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 75.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) on a worldwide consolidated basis.
(3)(i) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization or a subsidiary of a foreign banking organization, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (ee) means the trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 75.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) of the combined U.S. operations of the top-
tier foreign banking organization (including all subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, and agencies of the foreign banking organization operating, located, or organized in the United States as well as branches outside the United States that are managed or controlled by a branch or agency of the foreign banking entity operating, located or organized in the United States).
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (ee)(3)(i) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary. For purposes of paragraph (ee)(3)(i) of this section, all foreign operations of a U.S. agency, branch, or subsidiary of a foreign banking organization are considered to be located in the United States for purposes of calculating the banking entity's U.S. trading assets and liabilities.
(ff)
State
means any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(gg)
Subsidiary
has the same meaning as in section 2(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(d)).
(hh)
State insurance regulator
means the insurance commissioner, or a similar official or agency, of a State that is engaged in the supervision of insurance companies under State insurance law.
(ii)
Swap dealer
has the same meaning as in section 1(a)(49) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(49)).
[84 FR 62201, Nov. 14, 2019]

# Subpart B—Proprietary Trading
§ 75.3
Prohibition on proprietary trading.
(a)
Prohibition.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a banking entity may not engage in proprietary trading.
Proprietary trading
means engaging as principal for the trading account of the banking entity in any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments.
(b)
Definition of trading account
—(1)
Trading account.
Trading account means:
(i) Any account that is used by a banking entity to purchase or sell one or more financial instruments principally for the purpose of short-term resale, benefitting from actual or expected short-term price movements, realizing short-term arbitrage profits, or hedging one or more of the positions resulting from the purchases or sales of financial instruments described in this paragraph;
(ii) Any account that is used by a banking entity to purchase or sell one or more financial instruments that are both market risk capital rule covered positions and trading positions (or hedges of other market risk capital rule covered positions), if the banking entity, or any affiliate with which the banking entity is consolidated for regulatory reporting purposes, calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule; or
(iii) Any account that is used by a banking entity to purchase or sell one or more financial instruments, if the banking entity:
(A) Is licensed or registered, or is required to be licensed or registered, to engage in the business of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer, to the extent the instrument is purchased or sold in connection with the activities that require the banking entity to be licensed or registered as such; or
(B) Is engaged in the business of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer outside of the United States, to the extent the instrument is purchased or sold in connection with the activities of such business.
(2)
Trading account application for certain banking entities.
(i) A banking entity that is subject to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the scope of its trading account is not subject to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(ii) A banking entity that does not calculate risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule and is not a consolidated affiliate for regulatory reporting purposes of a banking
entity that calculates risk based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule may elect to apply paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the scope of its trading account as if it were subject to that paragraph. A banking entity that elects under this subsection to apply paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the scope of its trading account as if it were subject to that paragraph is not required to apply paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(3)
Consistency of account election for certain banking entities.
(i) Any election or change to an election under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section must apply to the electing banking entity and all of its wholly owned subsidiaries. The primary financial regulatory agency of a banking entity that is affiliated with but is not a wholly owned subsidiary of such electing banking entity may require that the banking entity be subject to this uniform application requirement if the primary financial regulatory agency determines that it is necessary to prevent evasion of the requirements of this part after notice and opportunity for response as provided in subpart D of this part.
(ii) A banking entity that does not elect under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section to be subject to the trading account definition in (b)(1)(ii) may continue to apply the trading account definition in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for one year from the date on which it becomes, or becomes a consolidated affiliate for regulatory reporting purposes with, a banking entity that calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule.
(4)
Rebuttable presumption for certain purchases and sales.
The purchase (or sale) of a financial instrument by a banking entity shall be presumed not to be for the trading account of the banking entity under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section if the banking entity holds the financial instrument for sixty days or longer and does not transfer substantially all of the risk of the financial instrument within sixty days of the purchase (or sale).
(c)
Financial instrument
—(1)
Financial instrument
means:
(i) A security, including an option on a security;
(ii) A derivative, including an option on a derivative; or
(iii) A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or option on a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery.
(2) A financial instrument does not include:
(i) A loan;
(ii) A commodity that is not:
(A) An excluded commodity (other than foreign exchange or currency);
(B) A derivative;
(C) A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery; or
(D) An option on a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery; or
(iii) Foreign exchange or currency.
(d)
Proprietary trading does not include:
—(1) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that arises under a repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement pursuant to which the banking entity has simultaneously agreed, in writing, to both purchase and sell a stated asset, at stated prices, and on stated dates or on demand with the same counterparty;
(2) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that arises under a transaction in which the banking entity lends or borrows a security temporarily to or from another party pursuant to a written securities lending agreement under which the lender retains the economic interests of an owner of such security, and has the right to terminate the transaction and to recall the loaned security on terms agreed by the parties;
(3) Any purchase or sale of a security, foreign exchange forward (as that term is defined in section 1a(24) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(24)), foreign exchange swap (as that term is defined in section 1a(25) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(25)), or cross-currency swap by a banking entity for the purpose of liquidity management in accordance with a documented liquidity management plan of the banking entity that:
(i) Specifically contemplates and authorizes the particular financial instruments to be used for liquidity management purposes, the amount, types, and risks of these financial instruments that are consistent with liquidity management, and the liquidity circumstances in which the particular financial instruments may or must be used;
(ii) Requires that any purchase or sale of financial instruments contemplated and authorized by the plan be principally for the purpose of managing the liquidity of the banking entity, and not for the purpose of short-term resale, benefitting from actual or expected short-term price movements, realizing short-term arbitrage profits, or hedging a position taken for such short-term purposes;
(iii) Requires that any financial instruments purchased or sold for liquidity management purposes be highly liquid and limited to financial instruments the market, credit, and other risks of which the banking entity does not reasonably expect to give rise to appreciable profits or losses as a result of short-term price movements;
(iv) Limits any financial instruments purchased or sold for liquidity management purposes, together with any other financial instruments purchased or sold for such purposes, to an amount that is consistent with the banking entity's near-term funding needs, including deviations from normal operations of the banking entity or any affiliate thereof, as estimated and documented pursuant to methods specified in the plan;
(v) Includes written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and independent testing to ensure that the purchase and sale of financial instruments that are not permitted under § 75.6(a) or (b) of this subpart are for the purpose of liquidity management and in accordance with the liquidity management plan described in this paragraph (d)(3); and
(vi) Is consistent with the CFTC's regulatory requirements regarding liquidity management;
(4) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that is a derivatives clearing organization or a clearing agency in connection with clearing financial instruments;
(5) Any excluded clearing activities by a banking entity that is a member of a clearing agency, a member of a derivatives clearing organization, or a member of a designated financial market utility;
(6) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity, so long as:
(i) The purchase (or sale) satisfies an existing delivery obligation of the banking entity or its customers, including to prevent or close out a failure to deliver, in connection with delivery, clearing, or settlement activity; or
(ii) The purchase (or sale) satisfies an obligation of the banking entity in connection with a judicial, administrative, self-regulatory organization, or arbitration proceeding;
(7) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that is acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian;
(8) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity through a deferred compensation, stock-bonus, profit-sharing, or pension plan of the banking entity that is established and administered in accordance with the law of the United States or a foreign sovereign, if the purchase or sale is made directly or indirectly by the banking entity as trustee for the benefit of persons who are or were employees of the banking entity;
(9) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity in the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith, provided that the banking entity divests the financial instrument as soon as practicable, and in no event may the banking entity retain such instrument for longer than such period permitted by the OCC;
(10) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments that was made in error by a banking entity in the course of conducting a permitted or excluded activity or is a subsequent transaction to correct such an error;
(11) Contemporaneously entering into a customer-driven swap or customer-driven security-based swap and a
matched swap or security-based swap if:
(i) The banking entity retains no more than minimal price risk; and
(ii) The banking entity is not a registered dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer;
(12) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments that the banking entity uses to hedge mortgage servicing rights or mortgage servicing assets in accordance with a documented hedging strategy; or
(13) Any purchase or sale of a financial instrument that does not meet the definition of trading asset or trading liability under the applicable reporting form for a banking entity as of January 1, 2020.
(e)
Definition of other terms related to proprietary trading.
For purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Anonymous
means that each party to a purchase or sale is unaware of the identity of the other party(ies) to the purchase or sale.
(2)
Clearing agency
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(23) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)).
(3)
Commodity
has the same meaning as in section 1a(9) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(9)), except that a commodity does not include any security;
(4)
Contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery
means a contract of sale (as that term is defined in section 1a(13) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(13)) for future delivery (as that term is defined in section 1a(27) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(27))).
(5)
Cross-currency swap
means a swap in which one party exchanges with another party principal and interest rate payments in one currency for principal and interest rate payments in another currency, and the exchange of principal occurs on the date the swap is entered into, with a reversal of the exchange of principal at a later date that is agreed upon when the swap is entered into.
(6)
Derivatives clearing organization
means:
(i) A derivatives clearing organization registered under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1);
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization that, pursuant to CFTC regulation, is exempt from the registration requirements under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1); or
(iii) A foreign derivatives clearing organization that, pursuant to CFTC regulation, is permitted to clear for a foreign board of trade that is registered with the CFTC.
(7)
Exchange,
unless the context otherwise requires, means any designated contract market, swap execution facility, or foreign board of trade registered with the CFTC, or, for purposes of securities or security-based swaps, an exchange, as defined under section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1)), or security-based swap execution facility, as defined under section 3(a)(77) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(77)).
(8)
Excluded clearing activities
means:
(i) With respect to customer transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing organization, a clearing agency, or a designated financial market utility, any purchase or sale necessary to correct trading errors made by or on behalf of a customer provided that such purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with, for transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing organization, the Commodity Exchange Act, CFTC regulations, and the rules or procedures of the derivatives clearing organization, or, for transactions cleared on a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the clearing agency, or, for transactions cleared on a designated financial market utility that is neither a derivatives clearing organization nor a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the designated financial market utility;
(ii) Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of a default or threatened imminent default of a customer provided that such purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with, for transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing organization, the Commodity Exchange Act, CFTC regulations, and the rules or procedures of the derivatives clearing organization, or, for transactions cleared on a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the clearing agency,
or, for transactions cleared on a designated financial market utility that is neither a derivatives clearing organization nor a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the designated financial market utility;
(iii) Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of a default or threatened imminent default of a member of a clearing agency, a member of a derivatives clearing organization, or a member of a designated financial market utility;
(iv) Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of the default or threatened default of a clearing agency, a derivatives clearing organization, or a designated financial market utility; and
(v) Any purchase or sale that is required by the rules or procedures of a clearing agency, a derivatives clearing organization, or a designated financial market utility to mitigate the risk to the clearing agency, derivatives clearing organization, or designated financial market utility that would result from the clearing by a member of security-based swaps that reference the member or an affiliate of the member.
(9)
Designated financial market utility
has the same meaning as in section 803(4) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5462(4)).
(10)
Issuer
has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(4) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(4)).
(11)
Market risk capital rule covered position and trading position
means a financial instrument that meets the criteria to be a covered position and a trading position, as those terms are respectively defined, without regard to whether the financial instrument is reported as a covered position or trading position on any applicable regulatory reporting forms:
(i) In the case of a banking entity that is a bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or insured depository institution, under the market risk capital rule that is applicable to the banking entity; and
(ii) In the case of a banking entity that is affiliated with a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, other than a banking entity to which a market risk capital rule is applicable, under the market risk capital rule that is applicable to the affiliated bank holding company or savings and loan holding company.
(12)
Market risk capital rule
means the market risk capital rule that is contained in 12 CFR part 3, subpart F, with respect to a banking entity for which the OCC is the primary financial regulatory agency, 12 CFR part 217 with respect to a banking entity for which the Board is the primary financial regulatory agency, or 12 CFR part 324 with respect to a banking entity for which the FDIC is the primary financial regulatory agency.
(13)
Municipal security
means a security that is a direct obligation of or issued by, or an obligation guaranteed as to principal or interest by, a State or any political subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of a State or any political subdivision thereof, or any municipal corporate instrumentality of one or more States or political subdivisions thereof.
(14)
Trading desk
means a unit of organization of a banking entity that purchases or sells financial instruments for the trading account of the banking entity or an affiliate thereof that is:
(i)(A) Structured by the banking entity to implement a well-defined business strategy;
(B) Organized to ensure appropriate setting, monitoring, and management review of the desk's trading and hedging limits, current and potential future loss exposures, and strategies; and
(C) Characterized by a clearly defined unit that:
(
1
) Engages in coordinated trading activity with a unified approach to its key elements;
(
2
) Operates subject to a common and calibrated set of risk metrics, risk levels, and joint trading limits;
(
3
) Submits compliance reports and other information as a unit for monitoring by management; and
(
4
) Books its trades together; or
(ii) For a banking entity that calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule, or a consolidated affiliate for regulatory reporting purposes of a banking entity that calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule, established by the banking entity or
its affiliate for purposes of market risk capital calculations under the market risk capital rule.
[79 FR 6048, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62203, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 75.4
Permitted underwriting and market making-related activities.
(a)
Underwriting activities
—(1)
Permitted underwriting activities.
The prohibition contained in § 75.3(a) does not apply to a banking entity's underwriting activities conducted in accordance with this paragraph (a).
(2)
Requirements.
The underwriting activities of a banking entity are permitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section only if:
(i) The banking entity is acting as an underwriter for a distribution of securities and the trading desk's underwriting position is related to such distribution;
(ii)(A) The amount and type of the securities in the trading desk's underwriting position are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of securities; and
(B) Reasonable efforts are made to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting position within a reasonable period, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of securities;
(iii) In the case of a banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities, the banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, including reasonably designed written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent testing identifying and addressing:
(A) The products, instruments or exposures each trading desk may purchase, sell, or manage as part of its underwriting activities;
(B) Limits for each trading desk, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section;
(C) Written authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that would exceed a trading desk's limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk's limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval; and
(D) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each trading desk's compliance with its limits.
(iv) A banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities may satisfy the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2))iii)(B) and (C) of this section by complying with the requirements set forth below in paragraph (c) of this section;
(v) The compensation arrangements of persons performing the activities described in this paragraph (a) are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading; and
(vi) The banking entity is licensed or registered to engage in the activity described in this paragraph (a) in accordance with applicable law.
(3)
Definition of distribution.
For purposes of this paragraph (a), a distribution of securities means:
(i) An offering of securities, whether or not subject to registration under the Securities Act of 1933, that is distinguished from ordinary trading transactions by the presence of special selling efforts and selling methods; or
(ii) An offering of securities made pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933.
(4)
Definition of underwriter.
For purposes of this paragraph (a),
underwriter
means:
(i) A person who has agreed with an issuer or selling security holder to:
(A) Purchase securities from the issuer or selling security holder for distribution;
(B) Engage in a distribution of securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling security holder; or
(C) Manage a distribution of securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling security holder; or
(ii) A person who has agreed to participate or is participating in a distribution of such securities for or on
behalf of the issuer or selling security holder.
(5)
Definition of selling security holder.
For purposes of this paragraph (a),
selling security holder
means any person, other than an issuer, on whose behalf a distribution is made.
(6)
Definition of underwriting position.
For purposes of this section,
underwriting position
means the long or short positions in one or more securities held by a banking entity or its affiliate, and managed by a particular trading desk, in connection with a particular distribution of securities for which such banking entity or affiliate is acting as an underwriter.
(7)
Definition of client, customer, and counterparty.
For purposes of this paragraph (a), the terms
client, customer, and counterparty,
on a collective or individual basis, refer to market participants that may transact with the banking entity in connection with a particular distribution for which the banking entity is acting as underwriter.
(b)
Market making-related activities
—(1)
Permitted market making-related activities.
The prohibition contained in § 75.3(a) does not apply to a banking entity's market making-related activities conducted in accordance with this paragraph (b).
(2)
Requirements.
The market making-related activities of a banking entity are permitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section only if:
(i) The trading desk that establishes and manages the financial exposure, routinely stands ready to purchase and sell one or more types of financial instruments related to its financial exposure, and is willing and available to quote, purchase and sell, or otherwise enter into long and short positions in those types of financial instruments for its own account, in commercially reasonable amounts and throughout market cycles on a basis appropriate for the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments;
(ii) The trading desk's market-making related activities are designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis, the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments;
(iii) In the case of a banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities, the banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, including reasonably designed written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent testing identifying and addressing:
(A) The financial instruments each trading desk stands ready to purchase and sell in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) The actions the trading desk will take to demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate promptly the risks of its financial exposure consistent with the limits required under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(C) of this section; the products, instruments, and exposures each trading desk may use for risk management purposes; the techniques and strategies each trading desk may use to manage the risks of its market making-related activities and positions; and the process, strategies, and personnel responsible for ensuring that the actions taken by the trading desk to mitigate these risks are and continue to be effective;
(C) Limits for each trading desk, in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section;
(D) Written authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that would exceed a trading desk's limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk's limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval; and
(E) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each trading desk's compliance with its limits.
(iv) A banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities may satisfy the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(C) and (D) of this section by complying with the requirements set
forth below in paragraph (c) of this section;
(v) The compensation arrangements of persons performing the activities described in this paragraph (b) are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading; and
(vi) The banking entity is licensed or registered to engage in activity described in this paragraph (b) in accordance with applicable law.
(3)
Definition of client, customer, and counterparty.
For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the terms
client, customer, and counterparty,
on a collective or individual basis refer to market participants that make use of the banking entity's market making-related services by obtaining such services, responding to quotations, or entering into a continuing relationship with respect to such services, provided that:
(i) A trading desk or other organizational unit of another banking entity is not a client, customer, or counterparty of the trading desk if that other entity has trading assets and liabilities of $50 billion or more as measured in accordance with the methodology described in § 75.2(ee) of this part, unless:
(A) The trading desk documents how and why a particular trading desk or other organizational unit of the entity should be treated as a client, customer, or counterparty of the trading desk for purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(B) The purchase or sale by the trading desk is conducted anonymously on an exchange or similar trading facility that permits trading on behalf of a broad range of market participants.
(ii) [Reserved]
(4)
Definition of financial exposure.
For purposes of this section,
financial exposure
means the aggregate risks of one or more financial instruments and any associated loans, commodities, or foreign exchange or currency, held by a banking entity or its affiliate and managed by a particular trading desk as part of the trading desk's market making-related activities.
(5)
Definition of market-maker positions.
For the purposes of this section,
market-maker positions
means all of the positions in the financial instruments for which the trading desk stands ready to make a market in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, that are managed by the trading desk, including the trading desk's open positions or exposures arising from open transactions.
(c)
Rebuttable presumption of compliance
—(1)
Internal limits.
(i) A banking entity shall be presumed to meet the requirement in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section with respect to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument if the banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and enforces the internal limits for the relevant trading desk as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii)(A) With respect to underwriting activities conducted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the presumption described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall be available to each trading desk that establishes, implements, maintains, and enforces internal limits that should take into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of securities and are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, based on the nature and amount of the trading desk's underwriting activities, on the:
(
1
) Amount, types, and risk of its underwriting position;
(
2
) Level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its underwriting position; and
(
3
) Period of time a security may be held.
(B) With respect to market making-related activities conducted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the presumption described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall be available to each trading desk that establishes, implements, maintains, and enforces internal limits that should take into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments and are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, based on the nature and amount of the trading desk's market-making related activities, that address the:
(
1
) Amount, types, and risks of its market-maker positions;
(
2
) Amount, types, and risks of the products, instruments, and exposures the trading desk may use for risk management purposes;
(
3
) Level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its financial exposure; and
(
4
) Period of time a financial instrument may be held.
(2)
Supervisory review and oversight.
The limits described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be subject to supervisory review and oversight by the CFTC on an ongoing basis.
(3)
Limit Breaches and Increases.
(i) With respect to any limit set pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, a banking entity shall maintain and make available to the CFTC upon request records regarding:
(A) Any limit that is exceeded; and
(B) Any temporary or permanent increase to any limit(s), in each case in the form and manner as directed by the CFTC.
(ii) In the event of a breach or increase of any limit set pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, the presumption described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall continue to be available only if the banking entity:
(A) Takes action as promptly as possible after a breach to bring the trading desk into compliance; and
(B) Follows established written authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that exceeds a trading desk's limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk's limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval.
(4)
Rebutting the presumption.
The presumption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section may be rebutted by the CFTC if the CFTC determines, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments and based on all relevant facts and circumstances, that a trading desk is engaging in activity that is not based on the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. The CFTC's rebuttal of the presumption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section must be made in accordance with the notice and response procedures in subpart D of this part.
[84 FR 62205, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 75.5
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
(a)
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
The prohibition contained in § 75.3(a) does not apply to the risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity in connection with and related to individual or aggregated positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity and designed to reduce the specific risks to the banking entity in connection with and related to such positions, contracts, or other holdings.
(b)
Requirements.
(1) The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity that has significant trading assets and liabilities are permitted under paragraph (a) of this section only if:
(i) The banking entity has established and implements, maintains and enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of this section, including:
(A) Reasonably designed written policies and procedures regarding the positions, techniques and strategies that may be used for hedging, including documentation indicating what positions, contracts or other holdings a particular trading desk may use in its risk-mitigating hedging activities, as well as position and aging limits with respect to such positions, contracts or other holdings;
(B) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring, management, and authorization procedures, including relevant escalation procedures; and
(C) The conduct of analysis and independent testing designed to ensure that the positions, techniques and strategies that may be used for hedging may reasonably be expected to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risk(s) being hedged;
(ii) The risk-mitigating hedging activity:
(A) Is conducted in accordance with the written policies, procedures, and internal controls required under this section;
(B) At the inception of the hedging activity, including, without limitation, any adjustments to the hedging activity, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate one or more specific, identifiable risks, including market risk, counterparty or other credit risk, currency or foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, basis risk, or similar risks, arising in connection with and related to identified positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the identified underlying and hedging positions, contracts or other holdings and the risks and liquidity thereof;
(C) Does not give rise, at the inception of the hedge, to any significant new or additional risk that is not itself hedged contemporaneously in accordance with this section;
(D) Is subject to continuing review, monitoring and management by the banking entity that:
(
1
) Is consistent with the written hedging policies and procedures required under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(
2
) Is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks that develop over time from the risk-mitigating hedging activities undertaken under this section and the underlying positions, contracts, and other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the underlying and hedging positions, contracts and other holdings of the banking entity and the risks and liquidity thereof; and
(
3
) Requires ongoing recalibration of the hedging activity by the banking entity to ensure that the hedging activity satisfies the requirements set out in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section and is not prohibited proprietary trading; and
(iii) The compensation arrangements of persons performing risk-mitigating hedging activities are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading.
(2) The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity that does not have significant trading assets and liabilities are permitted under paragraph (a) of this section only if the risk-mitigating hedging activity:
(i) At the inception of the hedging activity, including, without limitation, any adjustments to the hedging activity, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate one or more specific, identifiable risks, including market risk, counterparty or other credit risk, currency or foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, basis risk, or similar risks, arising in connection with and related to identified positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the identified underlying and hedging positions, contracts or other holdings and the risks and liquidity thereof; and
(ii) Is subject, as appropriate, to ongoing recalibration by the banking entity to ensure that the hedging activity satisfies the requirements set out in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and is not prohibited proprietary trading.
(c)
Documentation requirement.
(1) A banking entity that has significant trading assets and liabilities must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, unless the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section are met, with respect to any purchase or sale of financial instruments made in reliance on this section for risk-mitigating hedging purposes that is:
(i) Not established by the specific trading desk establishing or responsible for the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings the risks of which the hedging activity is designed to reduce;
(ii) Established by the specific trading desk establishing or responsible for the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings the risks of which the purchases or sales are designed to reduce, but that is effected through a financial instrument, exposure, technique, or strategy that is not specifically identified in the trading desk's written policies and procedures established under paragraph (b)(1) of this section or under § 75.4(b)(2)(iii)(B) as a product, instrument, exposure, technique, or strategy such trading desk may use for hedging; or
(iii) Established to hedge aggregated positions across two or more trading desks.
(2) In connection with any purchase or sale identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a banking entity must, at a minimum, and contemporaneously with the purchase or sale, document:
(i) The specific, identifiable risk(s) of the identified positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity that the purchase or sale is designed to reduce;
(ii) The specific risk-mitigating strategy that the purchase or sale is designed to fulfill; and
(iii) The trading desk or other business unit that is establishing and responsible for the hedge.
(3) A banking entity must create and retain records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section for a period that is no less than five years in a form that allows the banking entity to promptly produce such records to the Commission on request, or such longer period as required under other law or this part.
(4) The requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section do not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section if:
(i) The financial instrument purchased or sold is identified on a written list of pre-approved financial instruments that are commonly used by the trading desk for the specific type of hedging activity for which the financial instrument is being purchased or sold; and
(ii) At the time the financial instrument is purchased or sold, the hedging activity (including the purchase or sale of the financial instrument) complies with written, pre-approved limits for the trading desk purchasing or selling the financial instrument for hedging activities undertaken for one or more other trading desks. The limits shall be appropriate for the:
(A) Size, types, and risks of the hedging activities commonly undertaken by the trading desk;
(B) Financial instruments purchased and sold for hedging activities by the trading desk; and
(C) Levels and duration of the risk exposures being hedged.
[79 FR 6048, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62207, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 75.6
Other permitted proprietary trading activities.
(a)
Permitted trading in domestic government obligations.
The prohibition contained in § 75.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale by a banking entity of a financial instrument that is:
(1) An obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the United States;
(2) An obligation, participation, or other instrument of, or issued or guaranteed by, an agency of the United States, the Government National Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, a Federal Home Loan Bank, the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation or a Farm Credit System institution chartered under and subject to the provisions of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001
et seq.
);
(3) An obligation of any State or any political subdivision thereof, including any municipal security; or
(4) An obligation of the FDIC, or any entity formed by or on behalf of the FDIC for purpose of facilitating the disposal of assets acquired or held by the FDIC in its corporate capacity or as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(b)
Permitted trading in foreign government obligations
—(1)
Affiliates of foreign banking entities in the United States.
The prohibition contained in § 75.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument that is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, a foreign sovereign (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of such foreign sovereign, by a banking entity, so long as:
(i) The banking entity is organized under or is directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of a foreign sovereign and is not directly or indirectly controlled by a top-tier banking entity
that is organized under the laws of the United States;
(ii) The financial instrument is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the foreign sovereign under the laws of which the foreign banking entity referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section is organized (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign; and
(iii) The purchase or sale as principal is not made by an insured depository institution.
(2)
Foreign affiliates of a U.S. banking entity.
The prohibition contained in § 75.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument that is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, a foreign sovereign (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign, by a foreign entity that is owned or controlled by a banking entity organized or established under the laws of the United States or any State, so long as:
(i) The foreign entity is a foreign bank, as defined in § 211.2(j) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.2(j)), or is regulated by the foreign sovereign as a securities dealer;
(ii) The financial instrument is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the foreign sovereign under the laws of which the foreign entity is organized (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign; and
(iii) The financial instrument is owned by the foreign entity and is not financed by an affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(c)
Permitted trading on behalf of customers
—(1)
Fiduciary transactions.
The prohibition contained in § 75.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity acting as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity, so long as:
(i) The transaction is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, a customer; and
(ii) The banking entity does not have or retain beneficial ownership of the financial instruments.
(2)
Riskless principal transactions.
The prohibition contained in § 75.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity acting as riskless principal in a transaction in which the banking entity, after receiving an order to purchase (or sell) a financial instrument from a customer, purchases (or sells) the financial instrument for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to (or purchase from) the customer.
(d)
Permitted trading by a regulated insurance company.
The prohibition contained in § 75.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity that is an insurance company or an affiliate of an insurance company if:
(1) The insurance company or its affiliate purchases or sells the financial instruments solely for:
(i) The general account of the insurance company; or
(ii) A separate account established by the insurance company;
(2) The purchase or sale is conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the insurance company investment laws, regulations, and written guidance of the State or jurisdiction in which such insurance company is domiciled; and
(3) The appropriate Federal banking agencies, after consultation with the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the relevant insurance commissioners of the States and foreign jurisdictions, as appropriate, have not jointly determined, after notice and comment, that a particular law, regulation, or written guidance described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section is insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the covered banking entity, or the financial stability of the United States.
(e)
Permitted trading activities of foreign banking entities.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 75.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity if:
(i) The banking entity is not organized or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii) The purchase or sale by the banking entity is made pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act; and
(iii) The purchase or sale meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) A purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity is made pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act for purposes of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section only if:
(i) The purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section; and
(ii)(A) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization, the banking entity meets the qualifying foreign banking organization requirements of § 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c) or (e)), as applicable; or
(B) With respect to a banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization, the banking entity is not organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and the banking entity, on a fully-consolidated basis, meets at least two of the following requirements:
(
1
) Total assets of the banking entity held outside of the United States exceed total assets of the banking entity held in the United States;
(
2
) Total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceed total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States; or
(
3
) Total net income derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceeds total net income derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States.
(3) A purchase or sale by a banking entity is permitted for purposes of this paragraph (e) if:
(i) The banking entity engaging as principal in the purchase or sale (including relevant personnel) is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii) The banking entity (including relevant personnel) that makes the decision to purchase or sell as principal is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(iii) The purchase or sale, including any transaction arising from risk-mitigating hedging related to the instruments purchased or sold, is not accounted for as principal directly or on a consolidated basis by any branch or affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(4) For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is considered to be located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(f)
Permitted trading activities of qualifying foreign excluded funds.
The prohibition contained in § 75.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument by a qualifying foreign excluded fund. For purposes of this paragraph (f), a qualifying foreign excluded fund means a banking entity that:
(1) Is organized or established outside the United States, and the ownership interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(2)(i) Would be a covered fund if the entity were organized or established in the United States, or
(ii) Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in financial instruments for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in financial instruments;
(3) Would not otherwise be a banking entity except by virtue of the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in, sponsorship of, or relationship with the entity, by another banking entity that meets the following:
(i) The banking entity is not organized, or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized, under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(ii) The banking entity's acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in or sponsorship of the fund meets the
requirements for permitted covered fund activities and investments solely outside the United States, as provided in § 75.13(b);
(4) Is established and operated as part of a bona fide asset management business; and
(5) Is not operated in a manner that enables the banking entity that sponsors or controls the qualifying foreign excluded fund, or any of its affiliates, to evade the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part.
[79 FR 6048, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62208, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46516, July 31, 2020]
§ 75.7
Limitations on permitted proprietary trading activities.
(a) No transaction, class of transactions, or activity may be deemed permissible under §§ 75.4 through 75.6 if the transaction, class of transactions, or activity would:
(1) Involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties;
(2) Result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy; or
(3) Pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States.
(b)
Definition of material conflict of interest.
(1) For purposes of this section, a material conflict of interest between a banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties exists if the banking entity engages in any transaction, class of transactions, or activity that would involve or result in the banking entity's interests being materially adverse to the interests of its client, customer, or counterparty with respect to such transaction, class of transactions, or activity, and the banking entity has not taken at least one of the actions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) Prior to effecting the specific transaction or class or type of transactions, or engaging in the specific activity, the banking entity:
(i)
Timely and effective disclosure.
(A) Has made clear, timely, and effective disclosure of the conflict of interest, together with other necessary information, in reasonable detail and in a manner sufficient to permit a reasonable client, customer, or counterparty to meaningfully understand the conflict of interest; and
(B) Such disclosure is made in a manner that provides the client, customer, or counterparty the opportunity to negate, or substantially mitigate, any materially adverse effect on the client, customer, or counterparty created by the conflict of interest; or
(ii)
Information barriers.
Has established, maintained, and enforced information barriers that are memorialized in written policies and procedures, such as physical separation of personnel, or functions, or limitations on types of activity, that are reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of the banking entity's business, to prevent the conflict of interest from involving or resulting in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty. A banking entity may not rely on such information barriers if, in the case of any specific transaction, class or type of transactions or activity, the banking entity knows or should reasonably know that, notwithstanding the banking entity's establishment of information barriers, the conflict of interest may involve or result in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty.
(c)
Definition of high-risk asset and high-risk trading strategy.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
High-risk asset
means an asset or group of related assets that would, if held by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(2)
High-risk trading strategy
means a trading strategy that would, if engaged in by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
§§ 75.8-75.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Covered Fund Activities and Investments
§ 75.10
Prohibition on acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in and having certain relationships with a covered fund.
(a)
Prohibition.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a banking entity may not, as principal, directly or indirectly, acquire or retain any ownership interest in or sponsor a covered fund.
(2) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not include acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in a covered fund by a banking entity:
(i) Acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian, so long as;
(A) The activity is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, a customer; and
(B) The banking entity and its affiliates do not have or retain beneficial ownership of such ownership interest;
(ii) Through a deferred compensation, stock-bonus, profit-sharing, or pension plan of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) that is established and administered in accordance with the law of the United States or a foreign sovereign, if the ownership interest is held or controlled directly or indirectly by the banking entity as trustee for the benefit of persons who are or were employees of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof);
(iii) In the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith, provided that the banking entity divests the ownership interest as soon as practicable, and in no event may the banking entity retain such ownership interest for longer than such period permitted by the Commission; or
(iv) On behalf of customers as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity for a customer that is not a covered fund, so long as:
(A) The activity is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, the customer; and
(B) The banking entity and its affiliates do not have or retain beneficial ownership of such ownership interest.
(b)
Definition of covered fund.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, covered fund means:
(i) An issuer that would be an investment company, as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
),
but for
section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) or (7));
(ii) Any commodity pool under section 1a(10) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(10)) for which:
(A) The commodity pool operator has claimed an exemption under § 4.7 of this chapter; or
(B) (
1
) A commodity pool operator is registered with the CFTC as a commodity pool operator in connection with the operation of the commodity pool;
(
2
) Substantially all participation units of the commodity pool are owned by qualified eligible persons defined under § 4.7(a)(6)(i) and (ii) of this chapter; and
(
3
) Participation units of the commodity pool have not been publicly offered to persons who are not qualified eligible persons defined under § 4.7(a)(6)(i) and (ii) of this chapter; or
(iii) For any banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, an entity that:
(A) Is organized or established outside the United States and the ownership interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(B) Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities; and
(C) (
1
) Has as its sponsor that banking entity (or an affiliate thereof); or
(
2
) Has issued an ownership interest that is owned directly or indirectly by that banking entity (or an affiliate thereof).
(2) An issuer shall not be deemed to be a covered fund under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section if, were the issuer subject to U.S. securities laws, the issuer could rely on an exclusion or
exemption from the definition of “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) other than the exclusions contained in section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of that Act.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, unless the appropriate Federal banking agencies, the SEC, and the CFTC jointly determine otherwise, a covered fund does not include:
(1)
Foreign public funds.
(i) Subject to paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, an issuer that:
(A) Is organized or established outside of the United States; and
(B) Is authorized to offer and sell ownership interests, and such interests are offered and sold, through one or more public offerings.
(ii) With respect to a banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and any issuer for which such banking entity acts as sponsor, the sponsoring banking entity may not rely on the exemption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section for such issuer unless more than 75 percent of the ownership interests in the issuer are sold to persons other than:
(A) Such sponsoring banking entity;
(B) Such issuer;
(C) Affiliates of such sponsoring banking entity or such issuer; and
(D) Directors and senior executive officers as defined in § 225.71(c) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.71(c)) of such entities.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the term “public offering” means a distribution (as defined in § 75.4(a)(3)) of securities in any jurisdiction outside the United States to investors, including retail investors, provided that:
(A) The distribution is subject to substantive disclosure and retail investor protection laws or regulations;
(B) With respect to an issuer for which the banking entity serves as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, or sponsor, the distribution complies with all applicable requirements in the jurisdiction in which such distribution is being made;
(C) The distribution does not restrict availability to investors having a minimum level of net worth or net investment assets; and
(D) The issuer has filed or submitted, with the appropriate regulatory authority in such jurisdiction, offering disclosure documents that are publicly available.
(2)
Wholly-owned subsidiaries.
An entity, all of the outstanding ownership interests of which are owned directly or indirectly by the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof), except that:
(i) Up to five percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests, less any amounts outstanding under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, may be held by employees or directors of the banking entity or such affiliate (including former employees or directors if their ownership interest was acquired while employed by or in the service of the banking entity); and
(ii) Up to 0.5 percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests may be held by a third party if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by the third party for the purpose of establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns.
(3)
Joint ventures.
A joint venture between a banking entity or any of its affiliates and one or more unaffiliated persons,
provided that
the joint venture:
(i) Is composed of no more than 10 unaffiliated co-venturers;
(ii) Is in the business of engaging in activities that are permissible for the banking entity or affiliate, other than investing in securities for resale or other disposition; and
(iii) Is not, and does not hold itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in
securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities.
(4)
Acquisition vehicles.
An issuer:
(i) Formed solely for the purpose of engaging in a
bona fide
merger or acquisition transaction; and
(ii) That exists only for such period as necessary to effectuate the transaction.
(5)
Foreign pension or retirement funds.
A plan, fund, or program providing pension, retirement, or similar benefits that is:
(i) Organized and administered outside the United States;
(ii) A broad-based plan for employees or citizens that is subject to regulation as a pension, retirement, or similar plan under the laws of the jurisdiction in which the plan, fund, or program is organized and administered; and
(iii) Established for the benefit of citizens or residents of one or more foreign sovereigns or any political subdivision thereof.
(6)
Insurance company separate accounts.
A separate account, provided that no banking entity other than the insurance company participates in the account's profits and losses.
(7)
Bank owned life insurance.
A separate account that is used solely for the purpose of allowing one or more banking entities to purchase a life insurance policy for which the banking entity or entities is beneficiary, provided that no banking entity that purchases the policy:
(i) Controls the investment decisions regarding the underlying assets or holdings of the separate account; or
(ii) Participates in the profits and losses of the separate account other than in compliance with applicable requirements regarding bank owned life insurance.
(8)
Loan securitizations
—(i)
Scope.
An issuing entity for asset-backed securities that satisfies all the conditions of this paragraph (c)(8) and the assets or holdings of which are composed solely of:
(A) Loans as defined in § 75.2(t);
(B) Rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to holders of such securities and rights or other assets that are related or incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring and holding the loans, provided that each asset that is a security (other than special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(v) of this section) meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iii) of this section;
(C) Interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section;
(D) Special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates that meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(v) of this section; and
(E) Debt securities, other than asset-backed securities and convertible securities, provided that:
(
1
) The aggregate value of such debt securities does not exceed five percent of the aggregate value of loans held under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(A) of this section, cash and cash equivalents held under paragraph (c)(8)(iii)(A) of this section, and debt securities held under this paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E); and
(
2
) The aggregate value of the loans, cash and cash equivalents, and debt securities for purposes of this paragraph is calculated at par value at the most recent time any such debt security is acquired, except that the issuing entity may instead determine the value of any such loan, cash equivalent, or debt security based on its fair market value if:
(
i
) The issuing entity is required to use the fair market value of such assets for purposes of calculating compliance with concentration limitations or other similar calculations under its transaction agreements, and
(
ii
) The issuing entity's valuation methodology values similarly situated assets consistently.
(ii)
Impermissible assets.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(8), except as permitted under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section, the assets or holdings of the issuing entity shall not include any of the following:
(A) A security, including an asset-backed security, or an interest in an equity or debt security other than as permitted in paragraphs (c)(8)(iii), (iv), or (v) of this section;
(B) A derivative, other than a derivative that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section; or
(C) A commodity forward contract.
(iii)
Permitted securities.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(8)(ii)(A) of this section, the issuing entity may hold securities, other than debt securities permitted under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section, if those securities are:
(A) Cash equivalents—which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the securitization's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to either the underlying loans or the asset-backed securities—for purposes of the rights and assets in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section; or
(B) Securities received in lieu of debts previously contracted with respect to the loans supporting the asset-backed securities.
(iv)
Derivatives.
The holdings of derivatives by the issuing entity shall be limited to interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that satisfy all of the following conditions:
(A) The written terms of the derivatives directly relate to the loans, the asset-backed securities, the contractual rights or other assets described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section, or the debt securities described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section; and
(B) The derivatives reduce the interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks related to the loans, the asset-backed securities, the contractual rights or other assets described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section, or the debt securities described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section.
(v)
Special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates.
The assets or holdings of the issuing entity may include collateral certificates and special units of beneficial interest issued by a special purpose vehicle, provided that:
(A) The special purpose vehicle that issues the special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate meets the requirements in this paragraph (c)(8);
(B) The special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate is used for the sole purpose of transferring to the issuing entity for the loan securitization the economic risks and benefits of the assets that are permissible for loan securitizations under this paragraph (c)(8) and does not directly or indirectly transfer any interest in any other economic or financial exposure;
(C) The special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate is created solely to satisfy legal requirements or otherwise facilitate the structuring of the loan securitization; and
(D) The special purpose vehicle that issues the special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate and the issuing entity are established under the direction of the same entity that initiated the loan securitization.
(9)
Qualifying asset-backed commercial paper conduits.
(i) An issuing entity for asset-backed commercial paper that satisfies all of the following requirements:
(A) The asset-backed commercial paper conduit holds only:
(
1
) Loans and other assets permissible for a loan securitization under paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section; and
(
2
) Asset-backed securities supported solely by assets that are permissible for loan securitizations under paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section and acquired by the asset-backed commercial paper conduit as part of an initial issuance either directly from the issuing entity of the asset-backed securities or directly from an underwriter in the distribution of the asset-backed securities;
(B) The asset-backed commercial paper conduit issues only asset-backed securities, comprised of a residual interest and securities with a legal maturity of 397 days or less; and
(C) A regulated liquidity provider has entered into a legally binding commitment to provide full and unconditional liquidity coverage with respect to all of the outstanding asset-backed securities issued by the asset-backed commercial paper conduit (other than any residual interest) in the event that funds are required to redeem maturing asset-backed securities.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (c)(9) of this section, a regulated liquidity provider means:
(A) A depository institution, as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c));
(B) A bank holding company, as defined in section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)), or a subsidiary thereof;
(C) A savings and loan holding company, as defined in section 10a of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a), provided all or substantially all of the holding company's activities are permissible for a financial holding company under section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)), or a subsidiary thereof;
(D) A foreign bank whose home country supervisor, as defined in § 211.21(q) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(q)), has adopted capital standards consistent with the Capital Accord for the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended, and that is subject to such standards, or a subsidiary thereof; or
(E) The United States or a foreign sovereign.
(10)
Qualifying covered bonds
—(i)
Scope.
An entity owning or holding a dynamic or fixed pool of loans or other assets as provided in paragraph (c)(8) of this section for the benefit of the holders of covered bonds, provided that the assets in the pool are composed solely of assets that meet the conditions in paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section.
(ii)
Covered bond.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(10) of this section, a covered bond means:
(A) A debt obligation issued by an entity that meets the definition of foreign banking organization, the payment obligations of which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by an entity that meets the conditions set forth in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section; or
(B) A debt obligation of an entity that meets the conditions set forth in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section, provided that the payment obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by an entity that meets the definition of foreign banking organization and the entity is a wholly-owned subsidiary, as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, of such foreign banking organization.
(11)
SBICs and public welfare investment funds.
An issuer:
(i) That is a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662), or that has received from the Small Business Administration notice to proceed to qualify for a license as a small business investment company, which notice or license has not been revoked, or that has voluntarily surrendered its license to operate as a small business investment company in accordance with 13 CFR 107.1900 and does not make any new investments (other than investments in cash equivalents, which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the issuer's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to the issuer's assets) after such voluntary surrender;
(ii) The business of which is to make investments that are:
(A) Designed primarily to promote the public welfare, of the type permitted under paragraph (11) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. 24), including the welfare of low- and moderate-income communities or families (such as providing housing, services, or jobs) and including investments that qualify for consideration under the regulations implementing the Community Reinvestment Act (12 U.S.C. 2901
et seq.
); or
(B) Qualified rehabilitation expenditures with respect to a qualified rehabilitated building or certified historic structure, as such terms are defined in section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or a similar State historic tax credit program;
(iii) That has elected to be regulated or is regulated as a rural business investment company, as described in 15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b)(8)(A) or (B), or that has terminated its participation as a rural business investment company in accordance with 7 CFR 4290.1900 and does not make any new investments (other than investments in cash equivalents, which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the issuer's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to the issuer's assets) after such termination; or
(iv) That is a qualified opportunity fund, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1400Z-2(d).
(12)
Registered investment companies and excluded entities.
An issuer:
(i) That is registered as an investment company under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), or that is formed and operated pursuant to a written plan to become a registered investment company as described in § 75.20(e)(3) and that complies with the requirements of section 18 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-18);
(ii) That may rely on an exclusion or exemption from the definition of “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) other than the exclusions contained in section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of that Act; or
(iii) That has elected to be regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54(a) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-53) and has not withdrawn its election, or that is formed and operated pursuant to a written plan to become a business development company as described in § 75.20(e)(3) and that complies with the requirements of section 61 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-60).
(13)
Issuers in conjunction with the FDIC's receivership or conservatorship operations.
An issuer that is an entity formed by or on behalf of the FDIC for the purpose of facilitating the disposal of assets acquired in the FDIC's capacity as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(14)
Other excluded issuers.
(i) Any issuer that the appropriate Federal banking agencies, the SEC, and the CFTC jointly determine the exclusion of which is consistent with the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act.
(ii) A determination made under paragraph (c)(14)(i) of this section will be promptly made public.
(15)
Credit funds.
Subject to paragraphs (c)(15)(iii), (iv), and (v) of this section, an issuer that satisfies the asset and activity requirements of paragraphs (c)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i)
Asset requirements.
The issuer's assets must be composed solely of:
(A) Loans as defined in § 75.2(t);
(B) Debt instruments, subject to paragraph (c)(15)(iv) of this section;
(C) Rights and other assets that are related or incidental to acquiring, holding, servicing, or selling such loans or debt instruments, provided that:
(
1
) Each right or asset held under this paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) that is a security is either:
(
i
) A cash equivalent (which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the issuer's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to either the underlying loans or the debt instruments);
(
ii
) A security received in lieu of debts previously contracted with respect to such loans or debt instruments; or
(
iii
) An equity security (or right to acquire an equity security) received on customary terms in connection with such loans or debt instruments; and
(
2
) Rights or other assets held under this paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) of this section may not include commodity forward contracts or any derivative; and
(D) Interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives, if:
(
1
) The written terms of the derivative directly relate to the loans, debt instruments, or other rights or assets described in paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) of this section; and
(
2
) The derivative reduces the interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks related to the loans, debt instruments, or other rights or assets described in paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) of this section.
(ii)
Activity requirements.
To be eligible for the exclusion of paragraph (c)(15) of this section, an issuer must:
(A) Not engage in any activity that would constitute proprietary trading under § 75.3(b)(l)(i), as if the issuer were a banking entity; and
(B) Not issue asset-backed securities.
(iii)
Requirements for a sponsor, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor.
A banking entity that acts as a sponsor, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor to an issuer that meets the conditions in paragraphs (c)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section may not rely on this exclusion unless the banking entity:
(A) Provides in writing to any prospective and actual investor in the issuer the disclosures required under § 75.11(a)(8) of this subpart, as if the issuer were a covered fund;
(B) Ensures that the activities of the issuer are consistent with safety and soundness standards that are substantially similar to those that would apply if the banking entity engaged in the activities directly; and
(C) Complies with the limitations imposed in § 75.14, as if the issuer were a covered fund, except the banking entity may acquire and retain any ownership interest in the issuer.
(iv)
Additional Banking Entity Requirements.
A banking entity may not rely on this exclusion with respect to an issuer that meets the conditions in paragraphs (c)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section unless:
(A) The banking entity does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the issuer or of any entity to which such issuer extends credit or in which such issuer invests; and
(B) Any assets the issuer holds pursuant to paragraphs (c)(15)(i)(B) or (i)(C)(
l
)(
iii
) of this section would be permissible for the banking entity to acquire and hold directly under applicable federal banking laws and regulations.
(v)
Investment and Relationship Limits.
A banking entity's investment in, and relationship with, the issuer must:
(A) Comply with the limitations imposed in § 75.15, as if the issuer were a covered fund; and
(B) Be conducted in compliance with, and subject to, applicable banking laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(16)
Qualifying venture capital funds.
(i) Subject to paragraphs (c)(16)(ii) through (iv) of this section, an issuer that:
(A) Is a venture capital fund as defined in 17 CFR 275.203(l)-1; and
(B) Does not engage in any activity that would constitute proprietary trading under § 75.3(b)(1)(i), as if the issuer were a banking entity.
(ii) A banking entity that acts as a sponsor, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor to an issuer that meets the conditions in paragraph (c)(16)(i) of this section may not rely on this exclusion unless the banking entity:
(A) Provides in writing to any prospective and actual investor in the issuer the disclosures required under § 75.11(a)(8), as if the issuer were a covered fund;
(B) Ensures that the activities of the issuer are consistent with safety and soundness standards that are substantially similar to those that would apply if the banking entity engaged in the activities directly; and
(C) Complies with the restrictions in § 75.14 as if the issuer were a covered fund (except the banking entity may acquire and retain any ownership interest in the issuer).
(iii) The banking entity must not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the issuer.
(iv) A banking entity's ownership interest in or relationship with the issuer must:
(A) Comply with the limitations imposed in § 75.15, as if the issuer were a covered fund; and
(B) Be conducted in compliance with, and subject to, applicable banking laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(17)
Family wealth management vehicles.
(i) Subject to paragraph (c)(17)(ii) of this section, any entity that is not, and does not hold itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities, and:
(A) If the entity is a trust, the grantor(s) of the entity are all family customers; and
(B) If the entity is not a trust:
(
1
) A majority of the voting interests in the entity are owned (directly or indirectly) by family customers;
(
2
) A majority of the interests in the entity are owned (directly or indirectly) by family customers;
(
3
) The entity is owned only by family customers and up to 5 closely related persons of the family customers; and
(C) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(17)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, up
to an aggregate 0.5 percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests may be acquired or retained by one or more entities that are not family customers or closely related persons if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by such parties for the purpose of and to the extent necessary for establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns.
(ii) A banking entity may rely on the exclusion in paragraph (c)(17)(i) of this section with respect to an entity provided that the banking entity (or an affiliate):
(A) Provides bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services to the entity;
(B) Does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of such entity;
(C) Complies with the disclosure obligations under § 75.11(a)(8), as if such entity were a covered fund, provided that the content may be modified to prevent the disclosure from being misleading and the manner of disclosure may be modified to accommodate the specific circumstances of the entity;
(D) Does not acquire or retain, as principal, an ownership interest in the entity, other than as described in paragraph (c)(17)(i)(C) of this section;
(E) Complies with the requirements of §§ 75.14(b) and 75.15, as if such entity were a covered fund; and
(F) Except for riskless principal transactions as defined in paragraph (d)(11) of this section, complies with the requirements of 12 CFR 223.15(a), as if such banking entity and its affiliates were a member bank and the entity were an affiliate thereof.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(17) of this section, the following definitions apply:
(A)
Closely related person
means a natural person (including the estate and estate planning vehicles of such person) who has longstanding business or personal relationships with any family customer.
(B)
Family customer
means:
(
1
) A family client, as defined in Rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1(d)(4) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (17 CFR 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1(d)(4)); or
(
2
) Any natural person who is a father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law of a family client, or a spouse or a spousal equivalent of any of the foregoing.
(18)
Customer facilitation vehicles.
(i) Subject to paragraph (c)(18)(ii) of this section, an issuer that is formed by or at the request of a customer of the banking entity for the purpose of providing such customer (which may include one or more affiliates of such customer) with exposure to a transaction, investment strategy, or other service provided by the banking entity.
(ii) A banking entity may rely on the exclusion in paragraph (c)(18)(i) of this section with respect to an issuer provided that:
(A) All of the ownership interests of the issuer are owned by the customer (which may include one or more of its affiliates) for whom the issuer was created;
(B) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(18)(ii)(A) of this section, up to an aggregate 0.5 percent of the issuer's outstanding ownership interests may be acquired or retained by one or more entities that are not customers if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by such parties for the purpose of and to the extent necessary for establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns; and
(C) The banking entity and its affiliates:
(
1
) Maintain documentation outlining how the banking entity intends to facilitate the customer's exposure to such transaction, investment strategy, or service;
(
2
) Do not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of such issuer;
(
3
) Comply with the disclosure obligations under § 75.11(a)(8), as if such issuer were a covered fund, provided that the content may be modified to prevent the disclosure from being misleading and the manner of disclosure may be modified to accommodate the specific circumstances of the issuer;
(
4
) Do not acquire or retain, as principal, an ownership interest in the issuer, other than as described in paragraph (c)(18)(ii)(B) of this section;
(
5
) Comply with the requirements of §§ 75.14(b) and 75.15, as if such issuer were a covered fund; and
(
6
) Except for riskless principal transactions as defined in paragraph (d)(11) of this section, comply with the requirements of 12 CFR 223.15(a), as if such banking entity and its affiliates were a member bank and the issuer were an affiliate thereof.
(d)
Definition of other terms related to covered funds.
For purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Applicable accounting standards
means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or such other accounting standards applicable to a banking entity that the Commission determines are appropriate and that the banking entity uses in the ordinary course of its business in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
(2)
Asset-backed security
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(79) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79)).
(3)
Director
has the same meaning as provided in § 215.2(d)(1) of the Board's Regulation O (12 CFR 215.2(d)(1)).
(4)
Issuer
has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(22) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(22)).
(5)
Issuing entity
means with respect to asset-backed securities the special purpose vehicle that owns or holds the pool assets underlying asset-backed securities and in whose name the asset-backed securities supported or serviced by the pool assets are issued.
(6)
Ownership interest
—(i)
Ownership interest
means any equity, partnership, or other similar interest. An “other similar interest” means an interest that:
(A) Has the right to participate in the selection or removal of a general partner, managing member, member of the board of directors or trustees, investment manager, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor of the covered fund, excluding:
(
1
) The rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event; and
(
2
) The right to participate in the removal of an investment manager for “cause” or participate in the selection of a replacement manager upon an investment manager's resignation or removal. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A)(
2
), “cause” for removal of an investment manager means one or more of the following events:
(i)
The bankruptcy, insolvency, conservatorship or receivership of the investment manager;
(ii)
The breach by the investment manager of any material provision of the covered fund's transaction agreements applicable to the investment manager;
(iii)
The breach by the investment manager of material representations or warranties;
(iv)
The occurrence of an act that constitutes fraud or criminal activity in the performance of the investment manager's obligations under the covered fund's transaction agreements;
(v)
The indictment of the investment manager for a criminal offense, or the indictment of any officer, member, partner or other principal of the investment manager for a criminal offense materially related to his or her investment management activities;
(vi)
A change in control with respect to the investment manager;
(vii)
The loss, separation or incapacitation of an individual critical to the operation of the investment manager or primarily responsible for the management of the covered fund's assets; or
(viii)
Other similar events that constitute “cause” for removal of an investment manager, provided that such events are not solely related to the performance of the covered fund or the investment manager's exercise of investment discretion under the covered fund's transaction agreements;
(B) Has the right under the terms of the interest to receive a share of the income, gains or profits of the covered fund;
(C) Has the right to receive the underlying assets of the covered fund after all other interests have been redeemed and/or paid in full (excluding the rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event);
(D) Has the right to receive all or a portion of excess spread (the positive difference, if any, between the aggregate interest payments received from the underlying assets of the covered fund and the aggregate interest paid to the holders of other outstanding interests);
(E) Provides under the terms of the interest that the amounts payable by the covered fund with respect to the interest could be reduced based on losses arising from the underlying assets of the covered fund, such as allocation of losses, write-downs or charge-offs of the outstanding principal balance, or reductions in the amount of interest due and payable on the interest;
(F) Receives income on a pass-through basis from the covered fund, or has a rate of return that is determined by reference to the performance of the underlying assets of the covered fund; or
(G) Any synthetic right to have, receive, or be allocated any of the rights in paragraphs (d)(6)(i)(A) through (F) of this section.
(ii) Ownership interest does not include:
(A) Restricted profit interest, which is an interest held by an entity (or an employee or former employee thereof) in a covered fund for which the entity (or employee thereof) serves as investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or other service provider, so long as:
(
1
) The sole purpose and effect of the interest is to allow the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) to share in the profits of the covered fund as performance compensation for the investment management, investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services provided to the covered fund by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof), provided that the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) may be obligated under the terms of such interest to return profits previously received;
(
2
) All such profit, once allocated, is distributed to the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) promptly after being earned or, if not so distributed, is retained by the covered fund for the sole purpose of establishing a reserve amount to satisfy contractual obligations with respect to subsequent losses of the covered fund and such undistributed profit of the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) does not share in the subsequent investment gains of the covered fund;
(
3
) Any amounts invested in the covered fund, including any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining the restricted profit interest, are within the limits of § 75.12 of this subpart; and
(
4
) The interest is not transferable by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) except to an affiliate thereof (or an employee of the banking entity or affiliate), to immediate family members, or through the intestacy, of the employee or former employee, or in connection with a sale of the business that gave rise to the restricted profit interest by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) to an unaffiliated party that provides investment management, investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the fund.
(B) Any senior loan or senior debt interest that has the following characteristics:
(
1
) Under the terms of the interest the holders of such interest do not have the right to receive a share of the income, gains, or profits of the covered fund, but are entitled to receive only:
(
i
) Interest at a stated interest rate, as well as commitment fees or other fees, which are not determined by reference to the performance of the underlying assets of the covered fund; and
(
ii
) Repayment of a fixed principal amount, on or before a maturity date, in a contractually-determined manner (which may include prepayment premiums intended solely to reflect, and compensate holders of the interest for, forgone income resulting from an early prepayment);
(
2
) The entitlement to payments under the terms of the interest are absolute and could not be reduced based on losses arising from the underlying assets of the covered fund, such as allocation of losses, write-downs or charge-offs of the outstanding principal balance, or reductions in the amount of interest due and payable on the interest; and
(
3
) The holders of the interest are not entitled to receive the underlying assets of the covered fund after all other interests have been redeemed or paid in full (excluding the rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event).
(7)
Prime brokerage transaction
means any transaction that would be a covered transaction, as defined in section 23A(b)(7) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c(b)(7)), that is provided in connection with custody, clearance and settlement, securities borrowing or lending services, trade execution, financing, or data, operational, and administrative support.
(8)
Resident of the United States
means a person that is a “U.S. person” as defined in rule 902(k) of the SEC's Regulation S (17 CFR 230.902(k)).
(9)
Sponsor
means, with respect to a covered fund:
(i) To serve as a general partner, managing member, or trustee of a covered fund, or to serve as a commodity pool operator with respect to a covered fund as defined in (b)(1)(ii) of this section;
(ii) In any manner to select or to control (or to have employees, officers, or directors, or agents who constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees, or management of a covered fund; or
(iii) To share with a covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes, the same name or a variation of the same name, except as permitted under § 75.11(a)(6).
(10)
Trustee.
(i) For purposes of paragraph (d)(9) of this section and § 75.11, a trustee does
not
include:
(A) A trustee that does not exercise investment discretion with respect to a covered fund, including a trustee that is subject to the direction of an unaffiliated named fiduciary who is not a trustee pursuant to section 403(a)(1) of the Employee's Retirement Income Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1103(a)(1)); or
(B) A trustee that is subject to fiduciary standards imposed under foreign law that are substantially equivalent to those described in paragraph (d)(10)(i)(A) of this section;
(ii) Any entity that directs a person described in paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section, or that possesses authority and discretion to manage and control the investment decisions of a covered fund for which such person serves as trustee, shall be considered to be a trustee of such covered fund.
(11)
Riskless principal transaction.
Riskless principal transaction means a transaction in which a banking entity, after receiving an order from a customer to buy (or sell) a security, purchases (or sells) the security in the secondary market for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to (or purchase from) the customer.
[79 FR 6048, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35021, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 62208, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46516, July 31, 2020; 85 FR 60355, Sept. 25, 2020; 89 FR 78814, Sept. 26, 2024]
§ 75.11
Permitted organizing and offering, underwriting, and market making with respect to a covered fund.
(a)
Organizing and offering a covered fund in general.
Notwithstanding § 75.10(a), a banking entity is not prohibited from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or acting as sponsor to, a covered fund in connection with, directly or indirectly, organizing and offering a covered fund, including serving as a general partner, managing member, trustee, or commodity pool operator of the covered fund and in any manner selecting or controlling (or having employees, officers, directors, or agents who constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees, or management of the covered fund, including any necessary expenses for the foregoing, only if:
(1) The banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) provides
bona fide
trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services;
(2) The covered fund is organized and offered only in connection with the provision of
bona fide
trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services and only to persons that are customers of such services of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof), pursuant to a written plan or similar documentation outlining how the banking entity or such affiliate intends to provide advisory or similar services to its customers through organizing and offering such fund;
(3) The banking entity and its affiliates do not acquire or retain an ownership interest in the covered fund except as permitted under § 75.12;
(4) The banking entity and its affiliates comply with the requirements of § 75.14;
(5) The banking entity and its affiliates do not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund invests;
(6) The covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes:
(i) Does not share the same name or a variation of the same name with the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof), except that a covered fund may share the same name or a variation of the same name with a banking entity that is an investment adviser to the covered fund if:
(A) The investment adviser is not an insured depository institution, a company that controls an insured depository institution, or a company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(B) The investment adviser does not share the same name or a variation of the same name as an insured depository institution, a company that controls an insured depository institution, or a company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(ii) Does not use the word “bank” in its name;
(7) No director or employee of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) takes or retains an ownership interest in the covered fund, except for any director or employee of the banking entity or such affiliate who is directly engaged in providing investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the covered fund at the time the director or employee takes the ownership interest; and
(8) The banking entity:
(i) Clearly and conspicuously discloses, in writing, to any prospective and actual investor in the covered fund (such as through disclosure in the covered fund's offering documents):
(A) That “any losses in [such covered fund] will be borne solely by investors in [the covered fund] and not by [the banking entity] or its affiliates; therefore, [the banking entity's] losses in [such covered fund] will be limited to losses attributable to the ownership interests in the covered fund held by [the banking entity] and any affiliate in its capacity as investor in the [covered fund] or as beneficiary of a restricted profit interest held by [the banking entity] or any affiliate”;
(B) That such investor should read the fund offering documents before investing in the covered fund;
(C) That the “ownership interests in the covered fund are not insured by the FDIC, and are not deposits, obligations of, or endorsed or guaranteed in any way, by any banking entity” (unless that happens to be the case); and
(D) The role of the banking entity and its affiliates and employees in sponsoring or providing any services to the covered fund; and
(ii) Complies with any additional rules of the appropriate Federal banking agencies, the SEC, or the CFTC, as provided in section 13(b)(2) of the BHC Act, designed to ensure that losses in such covered fund are borne solely by investors in the covered fund and not by the covered banking entity and its affiliates.
(b)
Organizing and offering an issuing entity of asset-backed securities.
(1) Notwithstanding § 75.10(a), a banking entity is not prohibited from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or acting as sponsor to, a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities in connection with, directly or indirectly, organizing and offering that issuing entity, so long as the banking entity and its affiliates comply with all of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(3) through (a)(8) of this section.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, organizing and offering a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities means acting as the securitizer, as that term is used in section 15G(a)(3) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11(a)(3)) of the
issuing entity, or acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in the issuing entity as required by section 15G of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder.
(c)
Underwriting and market making in ownership interests of a covered fund.
The prohibition contained in § 75.10(a) of this subpart does not apply to a banking entity's underwriting activities or market making-related activities involving a covered fund so long as:
(1) Those activities are conducted in accordance with the requirements of § 75.4(a) or (b) of subpart B, respectively; and
(2) With respect to any banking entity (or any affiliate thereof) that: Acts as a sponsor, investment adviser or commodity trading advisor to a particular covered fund or otherwise acquires and retains an ownership interest in such covered fund in reliance on paragraph (a) of this section; or acquires and retains an ownership interest in such covered fund and is either a securitizer, as that term is used in section 15G(a)(3) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11(a)(3)), or is acquiring and retaining an ownership interest in such covered fund in compliance with section 15G of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder each as permitted by paragraph (b) of this section, then in each such case any ownership interests acquired or retained by the banking entity and its affiliates in connection with underwriting and market making related activities for that particular covered fund are included in the calculation of ownership interests permitted to be held by the banking entity and its affiliates under the limitations of § 75.12(a)(2)(ii); § 75.12(a)(2)(iii), and § 75.12(d) of this subpart.
[79 FR 6048, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35022, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 62208, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 75.12
Permitted investment in a covered fund.
(a)
Authority and limitations on permitted investments in covered funds.
(1) Notwithstanding the prohibition contained in § 75.10(a), a banking entity may acquire and retain an ownership interest in a covered fund that the banking entity or an affiliate thereof organizes and offers pursuant to § 75.11, for the purposes of:
(i)
Establishment.
Establishing the fund and providing the fund with sufficient initial equity for investment to permit the fund to attract unaffiliated investors, subject to the limits contained in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(iii) of this section; or
(ii)
De minimis investment.
Making and retaining an investment in the covered fund subject to the limits contained in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (a)(2)(iii) of this section.
(2)
Investment limits
—(i)
Seeding period.
With respect to an investment in any covered fund made or held pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the banking entity and its affiliates:
(A) Must actively seek unaffiliated investors to reduce, through redemption, sale, dilution, or other methods, the aggregate amount of all ownership interests of the banking entity in the covered fund to the amount permitted in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section; and
(B) Must, no later than 1 year after the date of establishment of the fund (or such longer period as may be provided by the Board pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section), conform its ownership interest in the covered fund to the limits in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section;
(ii)
Per-fund limits.
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, an investment by a banking entity and its affiliates in any covered fund made or held pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may not exceed 3 percent of the total number or value of the outstanding ownership interests of the fund.
(B) An investment by a banking entity and its affiliates in a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities may not exceed 3 percent of the total fair market value of the ownership interests of the fund measured in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, unless a greater percentage is retained by the banking entity and its affiliates in compliance with the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act (15
U.S.C. 78
o
-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder, in which case the investment by the banking entity and its affiliates in the covered fund may not exceed the amount, number, or value of ownership interests of the fund required under section 15G of the Exchange Act and the implementing regulations issued thereunder.
(iii)
Aggregate limit.
The aggregate value of all ownership interests of the banking entity and its affiliates in all covered funds acquired or retained under this section may not exceed 3 percent of the tier 1 capital of the banking entity, as provided under paragraph (c) of this section, and shall be calculated as of the last day of each calendar quarter.
(iv)
Date of establishment.
For purposes of this section, the date of establishment of a covered fund shall be:
(A)
In general.
The date on which the investment adviser or similar entity to the covered fund begins making investments pursuant to the written investment strategy for the fund;
(B)
Issuing entities of asset-backed securities.
In the case of an issuing entity of asset-backed securities, the date on which the assets are initially transferred into the issuing entity of asset-backed securities.
(b)
Rules of construction
—(1)
Attribution of ownership interests to a covered banking entity.
(i) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the amount and value of a banking entity's permitted investment in any single covered fund shall include any ownership interest held under § 75.12 directly by the banking entity, including any affiliate of the banking entity.
(ii)
Treatment of registered investment companies, SEC-regulated business development companies, and foreign public funds.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, a registered investment company, SEC-regulated business development companies, or foreign public fund as described in § 75.10(c)(1) will not be considered to be an affiliate of the banking entity so long as:
(A) The banking entity, together with its affiliates, does not own, control, or hold with the power to vote 25 percent or more of the voting shares of the company or fund; and
(B) The banking entity, or an affiliate of the banking entity, provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, administrative, and other services to the company or fund in compliance with the limitations under applicable regulation, order, or other authority.
(iii)
Covered funds.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, a covered fund will not be considered to be an affiliate of a banking entity so long as the covered fund is held in compliance with the requirements of this subpart.
(iv)
Treatment of employee and director investments financed by the banking entity.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires an ownership interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the ownership interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(2)
Calculation of permitted ownership interests in a single covered fund.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) or (4) of this section, for purposes of determining whether an investment in a single covered fund complies with the restrictions on ownership interests under paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (ii)(A) of this section:
(i) The aggregate number of the outstanding ownership interests held by the banking entity shall be the total number of ownership interests held under this section by the banking entity in a covered fund divided by the total number of ownership interests held by all entities in that covered fund, as of the last day of each calendar quarter (both measured without regard to committed funds not yet called for investment);
(ii) The aggregate value of the outstanding ownership interests held by the banking entity shall be the aggregate fair market value of all investments in and capital contributions made to the covered fund by the banking entity, divided by the value of all
investments in and capital contributions made to that covered fund by all entities, as of the last day of each calendar quarter (all measured without regard to committed funds not yet called for investment). If fair market value cannot be determined, then the value shall be the historical cost basis of all investments in and contributions made by the banking entity to the covered fund;
(iii) For purposes of the calculation under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, once a valuation methodology is chosen, the banking entity must calculate the value of its investment and the investments of all others in the covered fund in the same manner and according to the same standards.
(3)
Issuing entities of asset-backed securities.
In the case of an ownership interest in an issuing entity of asset-backed securities, for purposes of determining whether an investment in a single covered fund complies with the restrictions on ownership interests under paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section:
(i) For securitizations subject to the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11), the calculations shall be made as of the date and according to the valuation methodology applicable pursuant to the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder; or
(ii) For securitization transactions completed prior to the compliance date of such implementing regulations (or as to which such implementing regulations do not apply), the calculations shall be made as of the date of establishment as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(B) of this section or such earlier date on which the transferred assets have been valued for purposes of transfer to the covered fund, and thereafter only upon the date on which additional securities of the issuing entity of asset-backed securities are priced for purposes of the sales of ownership interests to unaffiliated investors.
(iii) For securitization transactions completed prior to the compliance date of such implementing regulations (or as to which such implementing regulations do not apply), the aggregate value of the outstanding ownership interests in the covered fund shall be the fair market value of the assets transferred to the issuing entity of the securitization and any other assets otherwise held by the issuing entity at such time, determined in a manner that is consistent with its determination of the fair market value of those assets for financial statement purposes.
(iv) For purposes of the calculation under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the valuation methodology used to calculate the fair market value of the ownership interests must be the same for both the ownership interests held by a banking entity and the ownership interests held by all others in the covered fund in the same manner and according to the same standards.
(4)
Multi-tier fund investments
—(i)
Master-feeder fund investments.
If the principal investment strategy of a covered fund (the “feeder fund”) is to invest substantially all of its assets in another single covered fund (the “master fund”), then for purposes of the investment limitations in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the banking entity's permitted investment in such funds shall be measured only by reference to the value of the master fund. The banking entity's permitted investment in the master fund shall include any investment by the banking entity in the master fund, as well as the banking entity's pro-rata share of any ownership interest in the master fund that is held through the feeder fund; and
(ii)
Fund-of-funds investments.
If a banking entity organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § 75.11 for the purpose of investing in other covered funds (a “fund of funds”) and that fund of funds itself invests in another covered fund that the banking entity is permitted to own, then the banking entity's permitted investment in that other fund shall include any investment by the banking entity in that other fund, as well as the banking entity's pro-rata share of any ownership interest in the fund that is held through the fund of funds. The investment of the banking entity may not represent more than 3 percent of the amount or value of any single covered fund.
(5)
Parallel Investments and Co-Investments.
(i) A banking entity shall not be required to include in the calculation of the investment limits under paragraph (a)(2) of this section any investment the banking entity makes alongside a covered fund as long as the investment is made in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(ii) A banking entity shall not be restricted under this section in the amount of any investment the banking entity makes alongside a covered fund as long as the investment is made in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(c)
Aggregate permitted investments in all covered funds.
(1)(i) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the aggregate value of all ownership interests held by a banking entity shall be the sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity in connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in covered funds (together with any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining a restricted profit interest under § 75.10(d)(6)(ii)), on a historical cost basis;
(ii) Treatment of employee and director restricted profit interests financed by the banking entity. For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires a restricted profit interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the restricted profit interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(2)
Calculation of tier 1 capital.
For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section:
(i)
Entities that are required to hold and report tier 1 capital.
If a banking entity is required to calculate and report tier 1 capital, the banking entity's tier 1 capital shall be equal to the amount of tier 1 capital of the banking entity as of the last day of the most recent calendar quarter, as reported to its primary financial regulatory agency; and
(ii) If a banking entity is not required to calculate and report tier 1 capital, the banking entity's tier 1 capital shall be determined to be equal to:
(A) In the case of a banking entity that is controlled, directly or indirectly, by a depository institution that calculates and reports tier 1 capital, be equal to the amount of tier 1 capital reported by such controlling depository institution in the manner described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) In the case of a banking entity that is not controlled, directly or indirectly, by a depository institution that calculates and reports tier 1 capital:
(
1
)
Bank holding company subsidiaries.
If the banking entity is a subsidiary of a bank holding company or company that is treated as a bank holding company, be equal to the amount of tier 1 capital reported by the top-tier affiliate of such covered banking entity that calculates and reports tier 1 capital in the manner described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section; and
(
2
)
Other holding companies and any subsidiary or affiliate thereof.
If the banking entity is not a subsidiary of a bank holding company or a company that is treated as a bank holding company, be equal to the total amount of shareholders' equity of the top-tier affiliate within such organization as of the last day of the most recent calendar quarter that has ended, as determined under applicable accounting standards.
(iii)
Treatment of foreign banking entities
—(A)
Foreign banking entities.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, with respect to a banking entity that is not itself, and is not controlled directly or indirectly by, a banking entity that is located or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, the tier 1 capital of the banking entity shall be the consolidated tier 1 capital of the entity as calculated under applicable home country standards.
(B)
U.S. affiliates of foreign banking entities.
With respect to a banking entity that is located or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and is controlled by a foreign
banking entity identified under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, the banking entity's tier 1 capital shall be as calculated under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(d)
Capital treatment for a permitted investment in a covered fund.
For purposes of calculating compliance with the applicable regulatory capital requirements, a banking entity shall deduct from the banking entity's tier 1 capital (as determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section) the greater of:
(1)(i) The sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity in connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest (together with any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining a restricted profit interest under § 75.10(d)(6)(ii) of subpart C of this part), on a historical cost basis, plus any earnings received; and
(ii) The fair market value of the banking entity's ownership interests in the covered fund as determined under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) or (b)(3) of this section (together with any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining a restricted profit interest under § 75.10(d)(6)(ii) of subpart C of this part), if the banking entity accounts for the profits (or losses) of the fund investment in its financial statements.
(2) Treatment of employee and director restricted profit interests financed by the banking entity. For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires a restricted profit interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the restricted profit interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(e)
Extension of time to divest an ownership interest
—(1)
Extension period.
Upon application by a banking entity, the Board may extend the period under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for up to 2 additional years if the Board finds that an extension would be consistent with safety and soundness and not detrimental to the public interest.
(2)
Application requirements.
An application for extension must:
(i) Be submitted to the Board at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the applicable time period;
(ii) Provide the reasons for application, including information that addresses the factors in paragraph (e)(3) of this section; and
(iii) Explain the banking entity's plan for reducing the permitted investment in a covered fund through redemption, sale, dilution or other methods as required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(3)
Factors governing the Board determinations.
In reviewing any application under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the Board may consider all the facts and circumstances related to the permitted investment in a covered fund, including:
(i) Whether the investment would result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies;
(ii) The contractual terms governing the banking entity's interest in the covered fund;
(iii) The date on which the covered fund is expected to have attracted sufficient investments from investors unaffiliated with the banking entity to enable the banking entity to comply with the limitations in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
(iv) The total exposure of the covered banking entity to the investment and the risks that disposing of, or maintaining, the investment in the covered fund may pose to the banking entity and the financial stability of the United States;
(v) The cost to the banking entity of divesting or disposing of the investment within the applicable period;
(vi) Whether the investment or the divestiture or conformance of the investment would involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and unaffiliated parties, including clients, customers, or counterparties to which it owes a duty;
(vii) The banking entity's prior efforts to reduce through redemption,
sale, dilution, or other methods its ownership interests in the covered fund, including activities related to the marketing of interests in such covered fund;
(viii) Market conditions; and
(ix) Any other factor that the Board believes appropriate.
(4)
Authority to impose restrictions on activities or investment during any extension period.
The Board may impose such conditions on any extension approved under paragraph (e)(1) of this section as the Board determines are necessary or appropriate to protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity or the financial stability of the United States, address material conflicts of interest or other unsound banking practices, or otherwise further the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act and this part.
(5)
Consultation.
In the case of a banking entity that is primarily regulated by another Federal banking agency, the SEC, or the CFTC, the Board will consult with such agency prior to acting on an application by the banking entity for an extension under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
[79 FR 6048, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 46520, July 31, 2020]
§ 75.13
Other permitted covered fund activities and investments.
(a)
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 75.10(a) of this subpart does not apply with respect to an ownership interest in a covered fund acquired or retained by a banking entity that is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks to the banking entity in connection with:
(i) A compensation arrangement with an employee of the banking entity or an affiliate thereof that directly provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory or other services to the covered fund; or
(ii) A position taken by the banking entity when acting as intermediary on behalf of a customer that is not itself a banking entity to facilitate the exposure by the customer to the profits and losses of the covered fund.
(2) The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity are permitted under this paragraph (a) only if:
(i) The banking entity has established and implements, maintains and enforces an internal compliance program in accordance with subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of this section, including:
(A) Reasonably designed written policies and procedures; and
(B) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring, management, and authorization procedures, including relevant escalation procedures; and
(ii) The acquisition or retention of the ownership interest:
(A) Is made in accordance with the written policies, procedures, and internal controls required under this section;
(B) At the inception of the hedge, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate one or more specific, identifiable risks arising:
(
1
) Out of a transaction conducted solely to accommodate a specific customer request with respect to the covered fund; or
(
2
) In connection with the compensation arrangement with the employee that directly provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the covered fund;
(C) Does not give rise, at the inception of the hedge, to any significant new or additional risk that is not itself hedged contemporaneously in accordance with this section; and
(D) Is subject to continuing review, monitoring and management by the banking entity.
(iii) With respect to risk-mitigating hedging activity conducted pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the compensation arrangement relates solely to the covered fund in which the banking entity or any affiliate has acquired an ownership interest pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) and such compensation arrangement provides that any losses incurred by the banking entity on such ownership interest will be offset by corresponding decreases in amounts payable under such compensation arrangement.
(b)
Certain permitted covered fund activities and investments outside of the United States.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 75.10(a) does not apply to the
acquisition or retention of any ownership interest in, or the sponsorship of, a covered fund by a banking entity only if:
(i) The banking entity is not organized or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States;
(ii) The activity or investment by the banking entity is pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act;
(iii) No ownership interest in the covered fund is offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States; and
(iv) The activity or investment occurs solely outside of the United States.
(2) An activity or investment by the banking entity is pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section only if:
(i) The activity or investment is conducted in accordance with the requirements of this section; and
(ii)(A) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization, the banking entity meets the qualifying foreign banking organization requirements of § 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c) or (e)), as applicable; or
(B) With respect to a banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization, the banking entity is not organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States and the banking entity, on a fully-consolidated basis, meets at least two of the following requirements:
(
1
) Total assets of the banking entity held outside of the United States exceed total assets of the banking entity held in the United States;
(
2
) Total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceed total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States; or
(
3
) Total net income derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceeds total net income derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States.
(3) An ownership interest in a covered fund is not offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section only if it is not sold and has not been sold pursuant to an offering that targets residents of the United States in which the banking entity or any affiliate of the banking entity participates. If the banking entity or an affiliate sponsors or serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor to a covered fund, then the banking entity or affiliate will be deemed for purposes of this paragraph (b)(3) to participate in any offer or sale by the covered fund of ownership interests in the covered fund.
(4) An activity or investment occurs solely outside of the United States for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section only if:
(i) The banking entity acting as sponsor, or engaging as principal in the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in the covered fund, is not itself, and is not controlled directly or indirectly by, a banking entity that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii) The banking entity (including relevant personnel) that makes the decision to acquire or retain the ownership interest or act as sponsor to the covered fund is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(iii) The investment or sponsorship, including any transaction arising from risk-mitigating hedging related to an ownership interest, is not accounted for as principal directly or indirectly on a consolidated basis by any branch or affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(5) For purposes of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign bank, or any subsidiary thereof, is located in the United States; however, a foreign bank of which that branch, agency, or subsidiary is a part is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operation of the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(c)
Permitted covered fund interests and activities by a regulated insurance company.
The prohibition contained in § 75.10(a) of this subpart does not apply to the acquisition or retention by an insurance company, or an affiliate thereof, of any ownership interest in, or the sponsorship of, a covered fund only if:
(1) The insurance company or its affiliate acquires and retains the ownership interest solely for the general account of the insurance company or for one or more separate accounts established by the insurance company;
(2) The acquisition and retention of the ownership interest is conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the insurance company investment laws and regulations of the State or jurisdiction in which such insurance company is domiciled; and
(3) The appropriate Federal banking agencies, after consultation with the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the relevant insurance commissioners of the States and foreign jurisdictions, as appropriate, have not jointly determined, after notice and comment, that a particular law or regulation described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity, or the financial stability of the United States.
(d)
Permitted covered fund activities and investments of qualifying foreign excluded funds.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 75.10(a) does not apply to a qualifying foreign excluded fund.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (d), a qualifying foreign excluded fund means a banking entity that:
(i) Is organized or established outside the United States, and the ownership interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(ii)(A) Would be a covered fund if the entity were organized or established in the United States, or
(B) Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in financial instruments for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in financial instruments;
(iii) Would not otherwise be a banking entity except by virtue of the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in, sponsorship of, or relationship with the entity, by another banking entity that meets the following:
(A) The banking entity is not organized, or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized, under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(B) The banking entity's acquisition of an ownership interest in or sponsorship of the fund by the foreign banking entity meets the requirements for permitted covered fund activities and investments solely outside the United States, as provided in § 75.13(b);
(iv) Is established and operated as part of a bona fide asset management business; and
(v) Is not operated in a manner that enables the banking entity that sponsors or controls the qualifying foreign excluded fund, or any of its affiliates, to evade the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part.
[79 FR 6048, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62208, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46521, July 31, 2020]
§ 75.14
Limitations on relationships with a covered fund.
(a)
Relationships with a covered fund.
(1) Except as provided for in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, no banking entity that serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or sponsor to a covered fund, that organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § 75.11, or that continues to hold an ownership interest in accordance with § 75.11(b), and no affiliate of such entity, may enter into a transaction with the covered fund, or with any other covered fund that is controlled by such covered fund, that would be a covered transaction as defined in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c(b)(7)), as if such banking entity and the affiliate thereof were a member bank and the covered fund were an affiliate thereof.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a banking entity may:
(i) Acquire and retain any ownership interest in a covered fund in accordance with the requirements of § 75.11, § 75.12, or § 75.13;
(ii) Enter into any prime brokerage transaction with any covered fund in which a covered fund managed, sponsored, or advised by such banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) has taken an ownership interest, if:
(A) The banking entity is in compliance with each of the limitations set forth in § 75.11 with respect to a covered fund organized and offered by such banking entity (or an affiliate thereof);
(B) The chief executive officer (or equivalent officer) of the banking entity certifies in writing annually no later than March 31 to the CFTC (with a duty to update the certification if the information in the certification materially changes) that the banking entity does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund invests; and
(C) The Board has not determined that such transaction is inconsistent with the safe and sound operation and condition of the banking entity; and
(iii) Enter into a transaction with a covered fund that would be an exempt covered transaction under 12 U.S.C. 371c(d) or § 223.42 of the Board's Regulation W (12 CFR 223.42) subject to the limitations specified under 12 U.S.C. 371c(d) or § 223.42 of the Board's Regulation W (12 CFR 223.42), as applicable,
(iv) Enter into a riskless principal transaction with a covered fund; and
(v) Extend credit to or purchase assets from a covered fund, provided:
(A) Each extension of credit or purchase of assets is in the ordinary course of business in connection with payment transactions; settlement services; or futures, derivatives, and securities clearing;
(B) Each extension of credit is repaid, sold, or terminated by the end of five business days; and
(C) The banking entity making each extension of credit meets the requirements of § 223.42(l)(1)(i) and (ii) of the Board's Regulation W (12 CFR 223.42(l)(1)(i) and(ii)), as if the extension of credit was an intraday extension of credit, regardless of the duration of the extension of credit.
(3) Any transaction or activity permitted under paragraphs (a)(2)(iii), (iv) or (v) must comply with the limitations in § 75.15.
(b)
Restrictions on transactions with covered funds.
A banking entity that serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or sponsor to a covered fund, or that organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § 75.11, or that continues to hold an ownership interest in accordance with § 75.11(b), shall be subject to section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c-1), as if such banking entity were a member bank and such covered fund were an affiliate thereof.
(c)
Restrictions on other permitted transactions.
Any transaction permitted under paragraphs (a)(2)(ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section shall be subject to section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c-1) as if the counterparty were an affiliate of the banking entity under section 23B.
[79 FR 6048, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62209, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46522, July 31, 2020]
§ 75.15
Other limitations on permitted covered fund activities.
(a) No transaction, class of transactions, or activity may be deemed permissible under §§ 75.11 through 75.13 if the transaction, class of transactions, or activity would:
(1) Involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties;
(2) Result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy; or
(3) Pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States.
(b)
Definition of material conflict of interest.
(1) For purposes of this section, a material conflict of interest between a banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties exists if the banking entity engages in any transaction, class of transactions, or activity that would involve or result in the banking entity's interests being materially adverse to the interests of its client, customer, or counterparty with respect to such transaction, class of
transactions, or activity, and the banking entity has not taken at least one of the actions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) Prior to effecting the specific transaction or class or type of transactions, or engaging in the specific activity, the banking entity:
(i)
Timely and effective disclosure.
(A) Has made clear, timely, and effective disclosure of the conflict of interest, together with other necessary information, in reasonable detail and in a manner sufficient to permit a reasonable client, customer, or counterparty to meaningfully understand the conflict of interest; and
(B) Such disclosure is made in a manner that provides the client, customer, or counterparty the opportunity to negate, or substantially mitigate, any materially adverse effect on the client, customer, or counterparty created by the conflict of interest; or
(ii)
Information barriers.
Has established, maintained, and enforced information barriers that are memorialized in written policies and procedures, such as physical separation of personnel, or functions, or limitations on types of activity, that are reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of the banking entity's business, to prevent the conflict of interest from involving or resulting in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty. A banking entity may not rely on such information barriers if, in the case of any specific transaction, class or type of transactions or activity, the banking entity knows or should reasonably know that, notwithstanding the banking entity's establishment of information barriers, the conflict of interest may involve or result in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty.
(c)
Definition of high-risk asset and high-risk trading strategy.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
High-risk asset
means an asset or group of related assets that would, if held by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(2)
High-risk trading strategy
means a trading strategy that would, if engaged in by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
§ 75.16
Ownership of interests in and sponsorship of issuers of certain collateralized debt obligations backed by trust-preferred securities.
(a) The prohibition contained in § 75.10(a)(1) does not apply to the ownership by a banking entity of an interest in, or sponsorship of, any issuer if:
(1) The issuer was established, and the interest was issued, before May 19, 2010;
(2) The banking entity reasonably believes that the offering proceeds received by the issuer were invested primarily in Qualifying TruPS Collateral; and
(3) The banking entity acquired such interest on or before December 10, 2013 (or acquired such interest in connection with a merger with or acquisition of a banking entity that acquired the interest on or before December 10, 2013).
(b) For purposes of this § 75.16,
Qualifying TruPS Collateral
shall mean any trust preferred security or subordinated debt instrument issued prior to May 19, 2010 by a depository institution holding company that, as of the end of any reporting period within 12 months immediately preceding the issuance of such trust preferred security or subordinated debt instrument, had total consolidated assets of less than $15,000,000,000 or issued prior to May 19, 2010 by a mutual holding company.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(3) of this section, a banking entity may act as a market maker with respect to the interests of an issuer described in paragraph (a) of this section in accordance with the applicable provisions of §§ 75.4 and 75.11.
(d) Without limiting the applicability of paragraph (a) of this section, the Board, the FDIC and the OCC will make public a non-exclusive list of issuers that meet the requirements of paragraph (a). A banking entity may
rely on the list published by the Board, the FDIC and the OCC.
[79 FR 5228, Jan. 31, 2014]
§§ 75.17-75.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Compliance Program Requirement; Violations
§ 75.20
Program for compliance; reporting.
(a)
Program requirement.
Each banking entity (other than a banking entity with limited trading assets and liabilities or a qualifying foreign excluded fund under section 75.6(f) or 75.13(d)) shall develop and provide for the continued administration of a compliance program reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and covered fund activities and investments set forth in section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. The terms, scope, and detail of the compliance program shall be appropriate for the types, size, scope, and complexity of activities and business structure of the banking entity.
(b)
Banking entities with significant trading assets and liabilities.
With respect to a banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities, the compliance program required by paragraph (a) of this section, at a minimum, shall include:
(1) Written policies and procedures reasonably designed to document, describe, monitor and limit trading activities subject to subpart B of this part (including those permitted under §§ 75.3 to 75.6), including setting, monitoring and managing required limits set out in §§ 75.4 and 75.5, and activities and investments with respect to a covered fund subject to subpart C of this part (including those permitted under §§ 75.11 through 75.14) conducted by the banking entity to ensure that all activities and investments conducted by the banking entity that are subject to section 13 of the BHC Act and this part comply with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part;
(2) A system of internal controls reasonably designed to monitor compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and to prevent the occurrence of activities or investments that are prohibited by section 13 of the BHC Act and this part;
(3) A management framework that clearly delineates responsibility and accountability for compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and includes appropriate management review of trading limits, strategies, hedging activities, investments, incentive compensation and other matters identified in this part or by management as requiring attention;
(4) Independent testing and audit of the effectiveness of the compliance program conducted periodically by qualified personnel of the banking entity or by a qualified outside party;
(5) Training for trading personnel and managers, as well as other appropriate personnel, to effectively implement and enforce the compliance program; and
(6) Records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part, which a banking entity must promptly provide to the Commission upon request and retain for a period of no less than 5 years or such longer period as required by the Commission.
(c)
CEO attestation.
The CEO of a banking entity that has significant trading assets and liabilities must, based on a review by the CEO of the banking entity, attest in writing to the CFTC, each year no later than March 31, that the banking entity has in place processes to establish, maintain, enforce, review, test and modify the compliance program required by paragraph (b) of this section in a manner reasonably designed to achieve compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. In the case of a U.S. branch or agency of a foreign banking entity, the attestation may be provided for the entire U.S. operations of the foreign banking entity by the senior management officer of the U.S. operations of the foreign banking entity who is located in the United States.
(d)
Reporting requirements under appendix A to this part.
(1) A banking entity (other than a qualifying foreign excluded fund under section 75.6(f) or 75.13(d)) engaged in proprietary trading activity permitted under subpart B
shall comply with the reporting requirements described in appendix A to this part, if:
(i) The banking entity has significant trading assets and liabilities; or
(ii) The CFTC notifies the banking entity in writing that it must satisfy the reporting requirements contained in appendix A to this part.
(2) Frequency of reporting: Unless the CFTC notifies the banking entity in writing that it must report on a different basis, a banking entity subject to appendix A to this part shall report the information required by appendix A for each quarter within 30 days of the end of the quarter.
(e)
Additional documentation for covered funds.
A banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities (other than a qualifying foreign excluded fund under section 75.6(f) or 75.13(d)) shall maintain records that include:
(1) Documentation of the exclusions or exemptions other than sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 relied on by each fund sponsored by the banking entity (including all subsidiaries and affiliates) in determining that such fund is not a covered fund;
(2) For each fund sponsored by the banking entity (including all subsidiaries and affiliates) for which the banking entity relies on one or more of the exclusions from the definition of covered fund provided by § 75.10(c)(1), (5), (8), (9), or (10), documentation supporting the banking entity's determination that the fund is not a covered fund pursuant to one or more of those exclusions;
(3) For each seeding vehicle described in § 75.10(c)(12)(i) or (iii) that will become a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business development company, a written plan documenting the banking entity's determination that the seeding vehicle will become a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business development company; the period of time during which the vehicle will operate as a seeding vehicle; and the banking entity's plan to market the vehicle to third-party investors and convert it into a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business development company within the time period specified in § 75.12(a)(2)(i)(B);
(4) For any banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, if the aggregate amount of ownership interests in foreign public funds that are described in § 75.10(c)(1) owned by such banking entity (including ownership interests owned by any affiliate that is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State) exceeds $50 million at the end of two or more consecutive calendar quarters, beginning with the next succeeding calendar quarter, documentation of the value of the ownership interests owned by the banking entity (and such affiliates) in each foreign public fund and each jurisdiction in which any such foreign public fund is organized, calculated as of the end of each calendar quarter, which documentation must continue until the banking entity's aggregate amount of ownership interests in foreign public funds is below $50 million for two consecutive calendar quarters; and
(5) For purposes of paragraph (e)(4) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(f)
Simplified programs for less active banking entities
—(1)
Banking entities with no covered activities.
A banking entity that does not engage in activities or investments pursuant to subpart B or subpart C of this part (other than trading activities permitted pursuant to § 75.6(a)) may satisfy the requirements of this section by establishing the required compliance program prior to becoming engaged in such activities or making such investments (other than trading activities permitted pursuant to § 75.6(a)).
(2)
Banking entities with moderate trading assets and liabilities.
A banking entity with moderate trading assets and liabilities may satisfy the requirements
of this section by including in its existing compliance policies and procedures appropriate references to the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and adjustments as appropriate given the activities, size, scope, and complexity of the banking entity.
(g)
Rebuttable presumption of compliance for banking entities with limited trading assets and liabilities
—(1)
Rebuttable presumption.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, a banking entity with limited trading assets and liabilities shall be presumed to be compliant with subpart B and subpart C of this part and shall have no obligation to demonstrate compliance with this part on an ongoing basis.
(2)
Rebuttal of presumption.
If upon examination or audit, the CFTC determines that the banking entity has engaged in proprietary trading or covered fund activities that are otherwise prohibited under subpart B or subpart C of this part, the CFTC may require the banking entity to be treated under this part as if it did not have limited trading assets and liabilities. The CFTC's rebuttal of the presumption in this paragraph must be made in accordance with the notice and response procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.
(h)
Reservation of authority.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the CFTC retains its authority to require a banking entity without significant trading assets and liabilities to apply any requirements of this part that would otherwise apply if the banking entity had significant or moderate trading assets and liabilities if the CFTC determines that the size or complexity of the banking entity's trading or investment activities, or the risk of evasion of subpart B or subpart C, of this part does not warrant a presumption of compliance under paragraph (g) of this section or treatment as a banking entity with moderate trading assets and liabilities, as applicable. The CFTC's exercise of this reservation of authority must be made in accordance with the notice and response procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i)
Notice and response procedures
—(1)
Notice.
The CFTC will notify the banking entity in writing of any determination requiring notice under this part and will provide an explanation of the determination.
(2)
Response.
The banking entity may respond to any or all items in the notice described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section. The response should include any matters that the banking entity would have the CFTC consider in deciding whether to make the determination. The response must be in writing and delivered to the designated CFTC official within 30 days after the date on which the banking entity received the notice. The CFTC may shorten the time period when, in the opinion of the CFTC, the activities or condition of the banking entity so requires, provided that the banking entity is informed of the time period at the time of notice, or with the consent of the banking entity. In its discretion, the CFTC may extend the time period for good cause.
(3)
Waiver.
Failure to respond within 30 days or such other time period as may be specified by the CFTC shall constitute a waiver of any objections to the CFTC's determination.
(4)
Decision.
The CFTC will notify the banking entity of the decision in writing. The notice will include an explanation of the decision.
[79 FR 6048, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62209, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46522, July 31, 2020]
§ 75.21
Termination of activities or investments; penalties for violations.
(a) Any banking entity that engages in an activity or makes an investment in violation of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, or acts in a manner that functions as an evasion of the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, including through an abuse of any activity or investment permitted under subparts B or C of this part, or otherwise violates the restrictions and requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, shall, upon discovery, promptly terminate the activity and, as relevant, dispose of the investment.
(b) Whenever the Commission finds reasonable cause to believe any banking entity has engaged in an activity or made an investment in violation of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, or engaged in any activity or made any
investment that functions as an evasion of the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, the Commission may take any action permitted by law to enforce compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part, including directing the banking entity to restrict, limit, or terminate any or all activities under this part and dispose of any investment.
Pt. 75, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 75—Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements for Covered Trading Activities

# I. Purpose
a. This appendix sets forth reporting and recordkeeping requirements that certain banking entities must satisfy in connection with the restrictions on proprietary trading set forth in subpart B (“proprietary trading restrictions”). Pursuant to § 75.20(d), this appendix applies to a banking entity that, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, has significant trading assets and liabilities. These entities are required to (i) furnish periodic reports to the CFTC regarding a variety of quantitative measurements of their covered trading activities, which vary depending on the scope and size of covered trading activities, and (ii) create and maintain records documenting the preparation and content of these reports. The requirements of this appendix must be incorporated into the banking entity's internal compliance program under § 75.20.
b. The purpose of this appendix is to assist banking entities and the CFTC in:
(1) Better understanding and evaluating the scope, type, and profile of the banking entity's covered trading activities;
(2) Monitoring the banking entity's covered trading activities;
(3) Identifying covered trading activities that warrant further review or examination by the banking entity to verify compliance with the proprietary trading restrictions;
(4) Evaluating whether the covered trading activities of trading desks engaged in market making-related activities subject to § 75.4(b) are consistent with the requirements governing permitted market making-related activities;
(5) Evaluating whether the covered trading activities of trading desks that are engaged in permitted trading activity subject to § 75.4, 75.5, or 75.6(a) and (b) (
i.e.,
underwriting and market making-related activity, risk-mitigating hedging, or trading in certain government obligations) are consistent with the requirement that such activity not result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies;
(6) Identifying the profile of particular covered trading activities of the banking entity, and the individual trading desks of the banking entity, to help establish the appropriate frequency and scope of examination by CFTC of such activities; and
(7) Assessing and addressing the risks associated with the banking entity's covered trading activities.
c. Information that must be furnished pursuant to this appendix is not intended to serve as a dispositive tool for the identification of permissible or impermissible activities.
d. In addition to the quantitative measurements required in this appendix, a banking entity may need to develop and implement other quantitative measurements in order to effectively monitor its covered trading activities for compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and to have an effective compliance program, as required by § 75.20. The effectiveness of particular quantitative measurements may differ based on the profile of the banking entity's businesses in general and, more specifically, of the particular trading desk, including types of instruments traded, trading activities and strategies, and history and experience (e.g., whether the trading desk is an established, successful market maker or a new entrant to a competitive market). In all cases, banking entities must ensure that they have robust measures in place to identify and monitor the risks taken in their trading activities, to ensure that the activities are within risk tolerances established by the banking entity, and to monitor and examine for compliance with the proprietary trading restrictions in this part.
e. On an ongoing basis, banking entities must carefully monitor, review, and evaluate all furnished quantitative measurements, as well as any others that they choose to utilize in order to maintain compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. All measurement results that indicate a heightened risk of impermissible proprietary trading, including with respect to otherwise-permitted activities under §§ 75.4 through 75.6(a) and (b), or that result in a material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies, must be escalated within the banking entity for review, further analysis, explanation to CFTC, and remediation, where appropriate. The quantitative measurements discussed in this appendix should be helpful to banking entities in identifying and managing the risks related to their covered trading activities.

# II. Definitions
The terms used in this appendix have the same meanings as set forth in §§ 75.2 and 75.3.
In addition, for purposes of this appendix, the following definitions apply:
Applicability
identifies the trading desks for which a banking entity is required to calculate and report a particular quantitative measurement based on the type of covered trading activity conducted by the trading desk.
Calculation period
means the period of time for which a particular quantitative measurement must be calculated.
Comprehensive profit
and loss means the net profit or loss of a trading desk's material sources of trading revenue over a specific period of time, including, for example, any increase or decrease in the market value of a trading desk's holdings, dividend income, and interest income and expense.
Covered trading activity
means trading conducted by a trading desk under § 75.4, § 75.5, § 75.6(a), or § 75.6(b). A banking entity may include in its covered trading activity trading conducted under § 75.3(d), § 75.6(c), § 75.6(d) or § 75.6(e).
Measurement frequency
means the frequency with which a particular quantitative metric must be calculated and recorded.
Trading day
means a calendar day on which a trading desk is open for trading.

# III. Reporting and Recordkeeping

# a. Scope of Required Reporting
1. Quantitative measurements. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 75.20 must furnish the following quantitative measurements, as applicable, for each trading desk of the banking entity engaged in covered trading activities and calculate these quantitative measurements in accordance with this appendix:
i. Internal Limits and Usage;
ii. Value-at-Risk;
iii. Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution;
iv. Positions; and
v. Transaction Volumes.
2. Trading desk information. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 75.20 must provide certain descriptive information, as further described in this appendix, regarding each trading desk engaged in covered trading activities.
3. Quantitative measurements identifying information. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 75.20 must provide certain identifying and descriptive information, as further described in this appendix, regarding its quantitative measurements.
4. Narrative statement. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 75.20 may provide an optional narrative statement, as further described in this appendix.
5. File identifying information. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 75.20 must provide file identifying information in each submission to the CFTC pursuant to this appendix, including the name of the banking entity, the RSSD ID assigned to the top-tier banking entity by the Board, and identification of the reporting period and creation date and time.

# b. Trading Desk Information
1. Each banking entity must provide descriptive information regarding each trading desk engaged in covered trading activities, including:
i. Name of the trading desk used internally by the banking entity and a unique identification label for the trading desk;
ii. Identification of each type of covered trading activity in which the trading desk is engaged;
iii. Brief description of the general strategy of the trading desk;
v. A list identifying each Agency receiving the submission of the trading desk;
2. Indication of whether each calendar date is a trading day or not a trading day for the trading desk; and
3. Currency reported and daily currency conversion rate.

# c. Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information
Each banking entity must provide the following information regarding the quantitative measurements:
1. An Internal Limits Information Schedule that provides identifying and descriptive information for each limit reported pursuant to the Internal Limits and Usage quantitative measurement, including the name of the limit, a unique identification label for the limit, a description of the limit, the unit of measurement for the limit, the type of limit, and identification of the corresponding risk factor attribution in the particular case that the limit type is a limit on a risk factor sensitivity and profit and loss attribution to the same risk factor is reported; and
2. A Risk Factor Attribution Information Schedule that provides identifying and descriptive information for each risk factor attribution reported pursuant to the Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution quantitative measurement, including the name of the risk factor or other factor, a unique identification label for the risk factor or other factor, a description of the risk factor or other factor, and the risk factor or other factor's change unit.

# d. Narrative Statement
Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 75.20 may submit in a separate electronic document a Narrative Statement to the CFTC with any information the banking entity views as relevant for assessing the information reported. The Narrative Statement may include further description of or
changes to calculation methods, identification of material events, description of and reasons for changes in the banking entity's trading desk structure or trading desk strategies, and when any such changes occurred.

# e. Frequency and Method of Required Calculation and Reporting
A banking entity must calculate any applicable quantitative measurement for each trading day. A banking entity must report the Trading Desk Information, the Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information, and each applicable quantitative measurement electronically to the CFTC on the reporting schedule established in § 75.20 unless otherwise requested by the CFTC. A banking entity must report the Trading Desk Information, the Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information, and each applicable quantitative measurement to the CFTC in accordance with the XML Schema specified and published on the CFTC's website.

# f. Recordkeeping
A banking entity must, for any quantitative measurement furnished to the CFTC pursuant to this appendix and § 75.20(d), create and maintain records documenting the preparation and content of these reports, as well as such information as is necessary to permit the CFTC to verify the accuracy of such reports, for a period of five years from the end of the calendar year for which the measurement was taken. A banking entity must retain the Narrative Statement, the Trading Desk Information, and the Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information for a period of five years from the end of the calendar year for which the information was reported to the CFTC.

# IV. Quantitative Measurements

# a. Risk-Management Measurements

# 1. Internal Limits and Usage
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Internal Limits are the constraints that define the amount of risk and the positions that a trading desk is permitted to take at a point in time, as defined by the banking entity for a specific trading desk. Usage represents the value of the trading desk's risk or positions that are accounted for by the current activity of the desk. Internal limits and their usage are key compliance and risk management tools used to control and monitor risk taking and include, but are not limited to, the limits set out in §§ 75.4 and 75.5. A trading desk's risk limits, commonly including a limit on “Value-at-Risk,” are useful in the broader context of the trading desk's overall activities, particularly for the market making activities under § 75.4(b) and hedging activity under § 75.5. Accordingly, the limits required under §§ 75.4(b)(2)(iii)(C) and 75.5(b)(1)(i)(A) must meet the applicable requirements under §§ 75.4(b)(2)(iii)(C) and 75.5(b)(1)(i)(A) and also must include appropriate metrics for the trading desk limits including, at a minimum, “Value-at-Risk” except to the extent the “Value-at-Risk” metric is demonstrably ineffective for measuring and monitoring the risks of a trading desk based on the types of positions traded by, and risk exposures of, that desk.
A. A banking entity must provide the following information for each limit reported pursuant to this quantitative measurement: The unique identification label for the limit reported in the Internal Limits Information Schedule, the limit size (distinguishing between an upper and a lower limit), and the value of usage of the limit.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks engaged in covered trading activities.

# 2. Value-at-Risk
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) is the measurement of the risk of future financial loss in the value of a trading desk's aggregated positions at the ninety-nine percent confidence level over a one-day period, based on current market conditions.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks engaged in covered trading activities.

# b. Source-of-Revenue Measurements

# 1. Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution is an analysis that attributes the daily fluctuation in the value of a trading desk's positions to various sources. First, the daily profit and loss of the aggregated positions is divided into two categories: (i) Profit and loss attributable to a trading desk's existing positions that were also positions held by the trading desk as of the end of the prior day (“existing positions”); and (ii) profit and loss attributable to new positions resulting from the current day's trading activity (“new positions”).
A. The comprehensive profit and loss associated with existing positions must reflect changes in the value of these positions on the applicable day. The comprehensive profit and loss from existing positions must be further attributed, as applicable, to (i) changes in the specific risk factors and other factors that are monitored and managed as part of the trading desk's overall risk management policies and procedures; and (ii) any other applicable elements, such as cash flows,
carry, changes in reserves, and the correction, cancellation, or exercise of a trade.
B. For the attribution of comprehensive profit and loss from existing positions to specific risk factors and other factors, a banking entity must provide the following information for the factors that explain the preponderance of the profit or loss changes due to risk factor changes: The unique identification label for the risk factor or other factor listed in the Risk Factor Attribution Information Schedule, and the profit or loss due to the risk factor or other factor change.
C. The comprehensive profit and loss attributed to new positions must reflect commissions and fee income or expense and market gains or losses associated with transactions executed on the applicable day. New positions include purchases and sales of financial instruments and other assets/liabilities and negotiated amendments to existing positions. The comprehensive profit and loss from new positions may be reported in the aggregate and does not need to be further attributed to specific sources.
D. The portion of comprehensive profit and loss from existing positions that is not attributed to changes in specific risk factors and other factors must be allocated to a residual category. Significant unexplained profit and loss must be escalated for further investigation and analysis.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks engaged in covered trading activities.

# c. Positions and Transaction Volumes Measurements

# 1. Positions
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Positions is the value of securities and derivatives positions managed by the trading desk. For purposes of the Positions quantitative measurement, do not include in the Positions calculation for “securities” those securities that are also “derivatives,” as those terms are defined under subpart A; instead, report those securities that are also derivatives as “derivatives.”
1227
A banking entity must separately report the trading desk's market value of long securities positions, short securities positions, derivatives receivables, and derivatives payables.
1227
See
§ 75.2(h), (aa). For example, under this part, a security-based swap is both a “security” and a “derivative.” For purposes of the Positions quantitative measurement, security-based swaps are reported as derivatives rather than securities.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks that rely on § 75.4(a) or (b) to conduct underwriting activity or market-making-related activity, respectively.

# 2. Transaction Volumes
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Transaction Volumes measures three exclusive categories of covered trading activity conducted by a trading desk. A banking entity is required to report the value and number of security and derivative transactions conducted by the trading desk with: (i) Customers, excluding internal transactions; (ii) non-customers, excluding internal transactions; and (iii) trading desks and other organizational units where the transaction is booked into either the same banking entity or an affiliated banking entity. For securities, value means gross market value. For derivatives, value means gross notional value. For purposes of calculating the Transaction Volumes quantitative measurement, do not include in the Transaction Volumes calculation for “securities” those securities that are also “derivatives,” as those terms are defined under subpart A; instead, report those securities that are also derivatives as “derivatives.”
1228
Further, for purposes of the Transaction Volumes quantitative measurement, a customer of a trading desk that relies on § 75.4(a) to conduct underwriting activity is a market participant identified in § 75.4(a)(7), and a customer of a trading desk that relies on § 75.4(b) to conduct market making-related activity is a market participant identified in § 75.4(b)(3).
1228
See
§ 75.2(h), (aa).
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks that rely on § 75.4(a) or (b) to conduct underwriting activity or market-making-related activity, respectively.
[84 FR 62210, Nov. 14, 2019]
Pt. 100

# PART 100—DELIVERY PERIOD REQUIRED

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7a(a)(4) and 12a.
§ 100.1
Delivery period required with respect to certain grains.
A period of seven business days is required during which contracts for future delivery in the current delivery month of wheat, corn, oats, barley, rye, or flaxseed may be settled by delivery of the actual cash commodity after trading in such contracts has ceased, for each delivery month after May 1938, on all contract markets on which there is trading in futures in any of such
commodities, and such contract markets, and each of them, are directed to provide therefor.
[41 FR 3211, Jan. 21, 1976]
Pt. 140

# PART 140—ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND PROCEDURES OF THE COMMISSION

# Subpart A—Organization
Sec.
140.1
Headquarters office.
140.2
Regional office—Regional Administrator.

# Subpart B—Functions
140.10
The Commission.
140.11
Emergency action by the senior Commissioner available.
140.12
Disposition of business by seriatim Commission consideration.
140.13
Vacancy in position of Chairman.
140.14
Delegation of authority to the Secretary of the Commission.
140.20
Designation of senior official to oversee Commission use of national security information.
140.21
Definitions.
140.22
Procedures.
140.23
General access requirements.
140.24
Control and accountability procedures.
140.61
[Reserved]
140.72
Delegation of authority to disclose confidential information to a registered entity, swap execution facility, swap data repository, registered futures association or self-regulatory organization.
140.73
Delegation of authority to disclose information to United States, States, and foreign government agencies and foreign futures authorities.
140.74
Delegation of authority to issue special calls for Series 03 Reports.
140.75
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and to the Director of the Market Participants Division.
140.76
Delegation of authority to disclose information in a receivership or bankruptcy proceeding.
140.77
Delegation of authority to determine that applications for contract market designation, swap execution facility registration, or swap data repository registration are materially incomplete.
140.80
Disclosure of information pursuant to a subpoena or summons.
140.81
[Reserved]
140.91
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and to the Market Participants Division.
140.92
Delegation of authority to grant registrations and renewals thereof.
140.93
Delegation of authority to the Director of theMarket Participants Division.
140.94
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Market Participants Division and to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk.
140.95
Delegation of authority with respect to withdrawals from registration.
140.96
Delegation of authority to publish in the Federal Register.
140.97
[Reserved]
140.98
Publication of no-action, interpretative and exemption letters and other written communications.
140.99
Requests for exemptive, no-action and interpretative letters.

# Subpart C—Regulation Concerning Conduct of Members and Employees and Former Members and Employees of the Commission
140.735-1
Authority and purpose.
140.735-2
Prohibited transactions.
140.735-2a
Prohibited interests.
140.735-3
Non-governmental employment and other outside activity.
140.735-4
Receipt and disposition of foreign gifts and decorations.
140.735-5
Disclosure of information.
140.735-6
Practice by former members and employees of the Commission.
140.735-7
Statutory violations applicable to conduct of Commission members and employees.
140.735-8
Interpretative and advisory service.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2(a)(12), 12a, 13(c), 13(d), 13(e), and 16(b).

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 140 appear at 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024.

# Subpart A—Organization
§ 140.1
Headquarters office.
(a)
General.
The headquarters office of the Commission is located at Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW., Washington, DC 20581.
(b) [Reserved]
[48 FR 2734, Jan. 21, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 49335, Sept. 25, 1995]
§ 140.2
Regional office—Regional Administrator.
Each of the Regional offices described herein functions as set forth in this section under the direction of a Regional Administrator who, as a collateral duty, oversees the administration of the office and represents the
Commission in negotiations with employee union officials and in interactions with external parties. Each regional office has delegated authority for the enforcement of the Act and administration of the programs of the Commission in the particular regions.
(a) The Eastern Regional Office is located at 290 Broadway, 6th Floor, New York, NY 10007 and is responsible for enforcement of the Act and administration of programs of the Commission in the States of Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, and West Virginia.
(b) The Central Regional Office is located at 77 W. Jackson Blvd., Suite 800, Chicago, IL 60604 and is responsible for enforcement of the Act and administration of programs of the Commission in the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin.
(c) The Southwestern Regional Office is located at 2600 Grand Blvd, Suite 210, Kansas City, MO 64108, and is responsible for enforcement of the Act and administration of the programs of the Commission in the States of Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.
[69 FR 41426, July 9, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 16269, Apr. 4, 2007; 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]

# Subpart B—Functions
§ 140.10
The Commission.
The Commission is composed of a Chairman and four other Commissioners, not more than three of whom may be members of the same political party, who are appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, for 5-year terms, one term ending each year. The Commission is assisted by a staff, which includes lawyers, economists, accountants, investigators and examiners, as well as administrative and clerical employees.
[41 FR 28474, July 12, 1976]
§ 140.11
Emergency action by the senior Commissioner available.
(a)
Authority of senior Commissioner.
When it is not feasible to convene a quorum of the Commission, the Senior Commissioner present at the Commission headquarters (or, during non-business hours, available in the Washington, DC area) may take emergency action on behalf of and in the name of the Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section. Members of the Commission shall be considered senior in the following order: the Chairman and other Commissioners in order of their length of service on the Commission. Where two or more Commissioners have commenced their service on the same date, the Commissioner whose unexpired term in office is the longest will be considered senior.
(b)
Exercise of authority.
Subject to the right of the Commission to review any emergency action taken as hereinafter provided, the Senior Commissioner may act on behalf of and in the name of the Commission with respect to all of the functions of the Commission except general rulemaking functions:
Provided, however,
That the Senior Commissioner shall not exercise any authority on behalf of the Commission (1) without consultation with such other member of the Commission as may at the time be present at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters, and without a reasonable attempt to consult, by telephone, with other members of the Commission; and (2) unless, in the opinion of the Senior Commissioner (after consulting with the General Counsel or his deputy or associate, and such other members of the Commission staff as the Senior Commissioner deems appropriate) the public interest requires that action be taken prior to the next scheduled meeting of the Commission.
(c)
Report to the Commission.
The exercise of Senior Commissioner authority shall be reported to the Commission within one business day thereafter either by the Senior Commissioner or at their direction, and shall be recorded
by the Secretariat in the Minute Record of all official actions of the Commission. The Secretariat shall promptly notify any directly affected person of the action taken and that it was the Senior Commissioner available, rather than the Commission as a whole, who took the action.
(d)
Review by the Commission.
The Commission may, in the following circumstances, review any action taken under Senior Commissioner authority and may affirm, modify, alter or set aside the decision:
(1) Upon the request of any member of the Commission, any action taken by a Senior Commissioner shall be reviewed by the Commission.
(2) In the event action by a Senior Commissioner suspends, denies or revokes or otherwise directly and adversely affects any license, right or privilege of any person, that person may in writing request review by the Commission and shall be entitled to have the action of the Senior Commissioner reviewed by the Commission.
(3) The Commission may, in its discretion, review any action taken by a Senior Commissioner upon petition by any other person.
(e)
Final effect of action by Senior Commissioner.
In any matter, the action taken under Senior Commissioner authority shall be deemed the action of the Commission unless and until the Commission shall otherwise direct.
[41 FR 28474, July 12, 1976, as amended at 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024, § 140.11 was amended by removing text “General Counsel or his deputy” and adding in its place “General Counsel or their deputy”. However, the amendment could not be incorporated due to an error that misidentified the paragraph number.
§ 140.12
Disposition of business by seriatim Commission consideration.
(a) Whenever the Chairman of the Commission is of the opinion that joint deliberation among the members of the Commission upon any matter is unnecessary in light of the nature of the matter, impracticable, or would impede the orderly disposition of agency business, but is of the view that such matter should be the subject of a vote of the Commission, such matter may be disposed of by circulation of any relevant materials concerning the matter. The relevant materials shall be circulated to each member of the Commission, unless a member is unavailable or has determined not to participate in the matter. A written record of the vote of each participating Commission member shall be reported to the Secretariat who shall retain it in the records of the Commission.
(b) Whenever any member of the Commission so requests, any matter circulated for disposition pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be withdrawn from circulation and scheduled instead for a Commission meeting.
[43 FR 43452, Sept. 26, 1978]
§ 140.13
Vacancy in position of Chairman.
At any time that a vacancy exists in the position of Chairman of the Commission the remaining members of the Commission shall elect a member to serve as acting Chairman who shall exercise the executive and administrative functions of the Commission that would otherwise be exercised by a Chairman in accordance with section 2(a)(6) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, until a new Chairman has been appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate:
Provided, however,
That if the President shall appoint a new Chairman from among the existing members of the Commission, that Commissioner shall serve as acting Chairman for these purposes until such time as their appointment as Chairman has been confirmed or rejected by the Senate.
[43 FR 50167, Oct. 27, 1978, 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 140.14
Delegation of authority to the Secretary of the Commission.
After the Commission has formally reached a decision or taken other action on a matter, has agreed upon the language of the document which embodies the Commission decision or other action, including, but not limited to, a rule, regulation or order, and has directed that the document be issued, the Secretary of the Commission (or a person designated in writing by the Secretary) shall sign the document on
behalf of the Commission. Signature by the Secretary shall be a ministerial function and shall not be discretionary. The delegation to the Secretary of the authority to sign documents on the Commission's behalf shall not affect any other delegation which the Commission has made, or may make, which authorizes any other officer or employee of the Commission to take action and to sign documents on the Commission's behalf. In addition, the Commission reserves the authority to provide for signature on its behalf by the Chairman or any other member of the Commission in particular circumstances.
[44 FR 33677, June 12, 1979]
§ 140.20
Designation of senior official to oversee Commission use of national security information.
(a) The Executive Director is hereby designated to oversee the Commission's program to ensure the safeguarding of national security information received by the Commission from other agencies, to chair a Commission committee composed of members of the staff selected by him with authority to act on all suggestions and complaints with respect to the Commission administration of its information security program, and, in conjunction with the Security Officer of the Commission, to ensure that practices for safeguarding national security information are systematically reviewed and that those practices which are duplicative or unnecessary are eliminated.
(b) The Executive Director may submit any matter for which he has been designated under paragraph (a) of this section to the Commission for its consideration.
[44 FR 65736, Nov. 15, 1979, as amended at 61 FR 21955, May 13, 1996]
§ 140.21
Definitions.
(a)
Classified information.
Information or material that is:
(1) Owned by, produced for or by, or under control of the United States Government, and
(2) Determined pursuant to Executive Order 12356 or prior or succeeding orders to require protection against unauthorized disclosure, and
(3) So designated.
(b)
Compromise.
The disclosure of classified information to persons not authorized access thereto.
(c)
Custodians.
An individual who has possession of or is otherwise charged with the responsibility for safeguarding or accounting for classified information.
(d)
Classification levels.
Refers to Top Secret “(TS)”, Secret “(S)”, and Confidential “(C)” levels used to identify national security information. Markings “For Official Use Only,” and “Limited Official Use” shall not be used to identify national security information.
[48 FR 15464, Apr. 11, 1983]
§ 140.22
Procedures.
(a)
Original classification.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has no original classification authority.
(b)
Derivative classification.
Personnel of the Commission shall respect the original classification markings assigned to information they receive from other agencies.
(c)
Declassification and downgrading.
Since the Commission does no original classification of material, declassification and downgrading of sensitive material is not applicable.
(d)
Dissemination.
All classified national security information which the Commission receives from any agency will be cared for and returned in accordance with the particular agency's policy guidelines and may not be disseminated to any other agency without the consent of the originating agency.
[48 FR 15464, Apr. 11, 1983]
§ 140.23
General access requirements.
(a)
Determination of trustworthiness.
No person shall be given access to classified information unless a favorable determination has been made as to the person's trustworthiness. The determination of eligibility, referred to as a security clearance, shall be based on such investigations as the Commission may require in accordance with the applicable Office of Personnel Management standards and criteria.
(b)
Determination of need-to-know.
A person is not entitled to receive classified information solely by virtue of having been granted a security clearance. A person must also have a need for access to the particular classified information sought in connection with the performance of official government duties or contractual obligations. The determination of that need shall be made by officials having responsibility for the classified information.
[48 FR 15464, Apr. 11, 1983]
§ 140.24
Control and accountability procedures.
Persons entrusted with classified information shall be responsible for providing protection and accountability for such information at all times and for locking classified information in approved security equipment whenever it is not in use or under direct supervision of authorized persons.
(a)
General safeguards.
(1) Classified material must not be left in unoccupied rooms or be left inadequately protected in an occupied office, or one occupied by other than security cleared employees. Under no circumstances shall classified material be placed in desk drawers or anywhere other than in approved storage containers.
(2) Employees using classified material shall take every precaution to prevent deliberate or casual inspection of it by unauthorized persons. Classified material shall be kept under constant surveillance and face down or covered when not in use.
(3) All copies of classified documents and any informal material such as memoranda, rough drafts, shorthand notes, carbon copies, carbon paper, typewriter ribbons, recording discs, spools and tapes shall be given the same classification and secure handling as the classified information they contain.
(4) Commission personnel authorized to use classified materials will obtain them from the Executive Director or their designee on the day required and return them to the Executive Director or their designee before the close of business on the same day.
(5) Classified information shall not be revealed in telephone or telecommunications conversations.
(6) Any person who has knowledge of the loss or possible compromise of classified information shall immediately report the circumstances either to the Security Officer or to the Executive Director or their designee in consultation with the General Counsel or their designee. The Executive Director or his delegee shall initiate a preliminary inquiry to determine the circumstances surrounding an actual or possible compromise, and to determine what corrective measures and administrative, disciplinary, or legal action is necessary.
(b)
Reproduction controls.
(1) The number of copies of documents containing classified information must be kept to the minimum required by operational necessity to decrease the risk of compromise and reduce storage costs.
(2) Top Secret documents, except for the controlled initial distribution of information processed or received electrically, shall not be reproduced without the consent of the originator.
(3) Unless restricted by the originating agency, Secret and Confidential documents may be reproduced to the extent required by operational needs.
(4) Reproduced copies of classified documents shall be subject to the same accountability and controls as the original documents.
(5) Classified reproduction shall be controlled by persons with the proper level of security clearance.
(6) Records shall be maintained to show the number and distribution of reproduced copies to all Top Secret documents, of all classified documents covered by special access programs distributed outside the originating agency, and of all Secret and Confidential documents which are marked with special dissemination and reproduction limitations.
(7) Unauthorized reproduction of classified material will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
(c)
Storage of classified material.
(1) All classified material in the custody of the Commission will be stored in accordance with the guidelines set forth in 32 CFR 2001.43.
(2) In addition, the Commission remains subject to the provisions of 32 CFR part 2001,
et seq.,
insofar as they
are applicable to classified materials held by the Commission.
[48 FR 15464, Apr. 11, 1983, as amended at 61 FR 21955, May 13, 1996; 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 140.61
[Reserved]
§ 140.72
Delegation of authority to disclose confidential information to a registered entity, swap execution facility, swap data repository, registered futures association or self-regulatory organization.
(a) Pursuant to the authority granted under sections 2(a)(11), 8a(5) and 8a(6) of the Act, the Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Executive Director, the Director of the Market Participants Division, the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, the Chief Accountant, the General Counsel, the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, the Director of the Division of Data, the Director of the Division of Enforcement, the Chief Economist of the Office of the Chief Economist, the Director of the Office of International Affairs, or such other employee or employees as the General Counsel, Directors, Chief Accountant or Chief Economist each may designate, the authority to disclose to an official of any registered entity, swap execution facility, swap data repository, registered futures association, or self-regulatory organization as defined in section 3(a)(26) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, any information necessary or appropriate to effectuate the purposes of the Act, including, but not limited to, the full facts concerning any transaction or market operation, including the names of the parties thereto. This authority to disclose shall be based on a determination that the transaction or market operation disrupts or tends to disrupt any market or is otherwise harmful or against the best interests of producers, consumers, or investors or that disclosure is necessary or appropriate to effectuate the purposes of the Act.
(b) Disclosure under this section shall only be made to a registered entity, swap execution facility, swap data repository, registered futures association or self-regulatory organization official who is named in a list filed with the Commission by the chief executive officer of the registered entity, swap execution facility, swap data repository, registered futures association or self-regulatory organization, which sets forth the official's name, business address and telephone number. The chief executive officer shall thereafter notify the Commission of any deletions or additions to the list of officials authorized to receive disclosures under this section. The original list and any supplemental list required by this paragraph shall be filed with the Secretary of the Commission, and a copy thereof shall also be filed with the Regional Administrator for the region in which the registered entity, swap execution facility, or swap data repository is located or in which the registered futures association or self-regulatory organization has its principal office.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, in any case in which a Commission employee delegated authority under this section believes it appropriate, he or she may submit to the Commission for its consideration the question of whether disclosure of information should be made.
(d) For purposes of this section, the term “official” shall mean any officer or member of a committee of a registered entity, swap execution facility, swap data repository, registered futures association or self-regulatory organization who is specifically charged with market surveillance or audit or investigative responsibilities, or their duly authorized representative or agent, who is named on the list filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section or any supplement thereto.
(e) For the purposes of this section, the term “self-regulatory organization” shall mean the same as that defined in section 3(a) (26) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(f) Any registered entity, swap execution facility, swap data repository, registered futures association or self-regulatory organization receiving information from the Commission under these provisions shall not disclose such information except that disclosure may be
made in any self-regulatory action or proceeding.
[48 FR 22134, May 17, 1983, as amended at 57 FR 20638, May 14, 1992; 61 FR 1709, Jan. 23, 1996; 66 FR 1576, Jan. 9, 2001; 67 FR 62352, Oct. 7, 2002; 73 FR 79609, Dec. 30, 2008; 77 FR 66346, Nov. 2, 2012; 78 FR 21523, Apr. 11, 2013; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 82 FR 28769, June 26, 2017; 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 140.73
Delegation of authority to disclose information to United States, States, and foreign government agencies and foreign futures authorities.
(a) Pursuant to sections 2(a)(11), 8a(5) and 8(e) of the Act, the Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the General Counsel, the Director of the Division of Enforcement, the Director of the Division of Data, the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, the Director of the Market Participants Division, the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, the Chief Economist of the Office of the Chief Economist, the Director of the Office of International Affairs, or such other employee or employees as the General Counsel, Chief Economist or Directors listed in this section each may designate the authority to furnish information in the possession of the Commission obtained in connection with the administration of the Act, upon written request, to:
(1) Any department or agency of the United States, including for this purpose an independent regulatory agency, acting within the scope of its jurisdiction;
(2) Any department or agency of any State or any political subdivision thereof, acting within the scope of its jurisdiction; or
(3) Any foreign futures authority, as defined in section 1a(10) of the Act, or any department or agency of any foreign government or political subdivision thereof, acting within the scope of its jurisdiction, provided that the Commission official making the disclosure is satisfied that the information will not be disclosed except in connection with an adjudicatory action or proceeding brought under the laws of such foreign government or political subdivision to which such foreign government or political subdivision or any department or agency thereof, or foreign futures authority is a party.
(b) Any disclosure made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be made with the concurrence of the Director of the Division of Enforcement or in their absence a Deputy Director of the Division of Enforcement. Provided, however, that no such concurrence is necessary for the Director of Market Oversight or in their absence each Deputy Director of the Division to release information under paragraph (a)(1) of this section concerning current or on-going market transactions or operations.
(c) In furnishing information under this delegation pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, the Commission official making the disclosure shall remind the department or agency involved that section 8(e) of the Act prohibits the disclosure by such department or agency of information that would separately disclose the business transactions or market positions of any person and trade secrets or names of customers except in an action or proceeding under the laws of the United States, the State, or a political subdivision thereof to which the department or the agency of either the state or political subdivision, the Commission, or the United States is a party.
(d) This delegation shall not affect any other delegation which the Commission has made or may make, which authorizes any other officer or employee of the Commission to furnish information to governmental bodies on the Commission's behalf.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, in any case in which any employee delegated authority therein believes it appropriate the matter may be submitted to the Commission for its consideration. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Commission from exercising the authority delegated in paragraph (a) of this section.
[48 FR 22135, May 17, 1983, as amended at 57 FR 20638, May 14, 1992; 61 FR 1709, Jan. 23, 1996; 66 FR 1576, Jan. 9, 2001; 67 FR 62352, Oct. 7, 2002; 73 FR 79609, Dec. 30, 2008; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 82 FR 28770, June 26, 2017; 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 140.74
Delegation of authority to issue special calls for Series 03 Reports.
(a) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Enforcement, or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, the authority to issue special calls for series 03 reports under § 18.00 of this chapter.
(b) The Director of the Division of Enforcement may submit any matter which has been delegated to the Director under this section to the Commission for its consideration.
(c) Nothing in this section may prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Enforcement under paragraph (a) of this section.
[82 FR 28770, June 26, 2017]
§ 140.75
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and to the Director of the Market Participants Division.
Pursuant to sections 2(a)(11), 8a(5) and 8(g) of the Act, the Commission hereby delegates to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and to the Director of the Market Participants Division and to such members of the Commission's staff acting under their direction as either Director may designate, the authority to disclose any registration information contained in the registration applications filed by Commission registrants or any compilation of such information maintained by the Commission to any department or agency of any State or any political subdivision thereof. Disclosure under this section may be made upon reasonable request made to the Commission or without request whenever the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, the Director of the Market Participants Division, or any Commission employee designated by either Director to make disclosures under this section determines that such information may be appropriate for use by any department or agency of a State or political subdivision thereof. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, in any case in which the Director of Division of Clearing and Risk and Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight deems it appropriate, or in any case in which the Commission so requests, the Director may submit matter to the Commission for its consideration.
[48 FR 22136, May 17, 1983, as amended at 67 FR 62352, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013]

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024, § 140.75 was amended by removing text “Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight” and adding in its place “Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk or the Director of the Market Participants Division”. However, the amendment could not be incorporated due to an error in the amendatory instruction.
§ 140.76
Delegation of authority to disclose information in a receivership or bankruptcy proceeding.
(a) Pursuant to sections 2(a)(11) and 8(b) of the Act, the Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Enforcement, the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, the Director of the Market Participants Division, the General Counsel, or any Commission employee under their direction as they may designate Commission employee under their direction as they may designate, the authority to disclose data and information that would separately disclose the business transactions or market positions of any person and trade secrets or names of customers, when such disclosure is made in any receivership proceeding involving a receiver appointed in a judicial proceeding brought under the Act, or in any bankruptcy proceeding in which the Commission has intervened or in which the Commission has the right to appear and be heard under title 11 of the United States Code.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a), in any case in which the Director of the Division of Enforcement, the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, the Director of the Market Participants Division, the General Counsel, or any employee designated by them to make disclosures
pursuant to this section believes it appropriate, the matter may be submitted to the Commission for consideration. In addition, the Commission reserves to itself the authority to determine whether to grant a request for information in any particular case.
[49 FR 4464, Feb. 7, 1984, as amended at 67 FR 62352, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 140.77
Delegation of authority to determine that applications for contract market designation, swap execution facility registration, or swap data repository registration are materially incomplete.
(a) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or the Director's designees, the authority to determine that an application for contract market designation, swap execution facility registration, or swap data repository registration is materially incomplete under section 6 of the Commodity Exchange Act and to so notify the applicant.
(b) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit any matter which has been delegated to the director under paragraph (a) of this section to the Commission for its consideration.
(c) Nothing in this section may prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight under paragraph (a) of this section.
[48 FR 34946, Aug. 2, 1983, as amended at 57 FR 20638, May 14, 1992; 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 77 FR 66347, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 140.80
Disclosure of information pursuant to a subpoena or summons.
The Commission shall provide notice to any person who has submitted information to the Commission when a summons or subpoena seeking the submitted information is received by the Commission. Notice ordinarily will be provided by mailing a copy of the summons or subpoena to the last known home or business address of the person who submitted the information. However, under circumstances which would make notice by mail unduly burdensome or costly, notice of the existence of the summons or subpoena may be affected by alternative means such as publication in the
Federal Register.
The Commission will not disclose such information until the expiration of at least fourteen days from the date of mailing, or such other notice as is given. This section shall not apply to (a) Congressional subpoenas or Congressional requests for information, (b) information which is considered by the Commission to be public information, or (c) information as to which the submitter has waived the notice provision of this section.
[49 FR 4464, Feb. 7, 1984]
§ 140.81
[Reserved]
§ 140.91
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and to the Market Participants Division.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and to the Director of the Market Participants Division and to such members of the Commission's staff acting under their direction as they may designate:
(1) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 1.10 of this chapter, except for those relating to nonpublic treatment of reports set forth in § 1.10(g) of this chapter;
(2) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 1.12 of this chapter;
(3) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 1.14 of this chapter;
(4) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 1.15 of this chapter;
(5) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 1.16 of this chapter; and
(6) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 1.17 of this chapter, except for those relating to non-enumerated cover cases set forth in § 1.17(j)(3) of this chapter.
(7) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 1.20 of this chapter.
(8) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 1.25 of this chapter.
(9) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 1.26 of this chapter.
(10) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 1.52 of this chapter.
(11) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 23.100-106 of this chapter, except for those related to the revocation of a swap dealer's or major swap participant's approval to use internal models to compute capital requirements under § 23.102 of this chapter, those related to the Commission's order under § 23.104 of this chapter, and the issuance of Capital Comparability Determinations under § 23.106 of this chapter.
(12) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 30.7 of this chapter.
(13) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 41.41 of this chapter. Any action taken pursuant to the delegation of authority under this paragraph (a)(13) shall be made with the concurrence of the General Counsel or, in their absence, a Deputy General Counsel.
(b) The Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and the Director of the Market Participants Division may submit any matter which has been delegated to them under paragraph (a) of this section to the Commission for its consideration.
[44 FR 13460, Mar. 12, 1979, as amended at 60 FR 8195, Feb. 13, 1995; 66 FR 43087, Aug. 17, 2001; 66 FR 53523, Oct. 23, 2001; 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 78 FR 68655, Nov. 14, 2013; 79 FR 44126, July 30, 2014; 85 FR 57570, Sept. 15, 2020; 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 140.92
Delegation of authority to grant registrations and renewals thereof.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and to the Director of the Market Participants Division and to such members of the Commission's staff acting under their direction as they may designate, the authority to grant registrations and renewals thereof.
(b) The Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and the Director of the Market Participants Division may submit any matter which has been delegated to them under paragraph (a) of this section to the Commission for its consideration.
(c) Nothing in this section may prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and to the Director of the Market Participants Division under paragraph (a) of this section.
[45 FR 20785, Mar. 31, 1980, as amended at 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013]
§ 140.93
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Market Participants Division.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and to the Director of the Market Participants Division and to such members of the Commission's staff acting under their direction as they may designate:
(1) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 4.12(a) of this chapter.
(2) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 4.22(g)(3) of this chapter.
(3) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 4.20(a) of this chapter.
(4) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 4.5(c)(2)(ii) of this chapter.
(5) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 4.6(b) of this chapter.
(6) All functions reserved to the Commission in §§ 23.150 through 23.161 of this chapter.
(b) The Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and the Director of the Market Participants Division may submit any matter which has been delegated to them under paragraph (a) of this section to the Commission for its consideration.
(c) Nothing in this section may prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and the Director of the Market Participants Division under paragraph (a) of this section.
[46 FR 26023, May 8, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 34311, July 1, 1981; 50 FR 15884, Apr. 23, 1985; 52 FR 41986, Nov. 2, 1987; 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 70 FR 2566, Jan. 14, 2005; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 81 FR 704, Jan. 6, 2016]
§ 140.94
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Market Participants Division and to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the Director of the Market Participants Division and to such members of the Commission's staff acting under their direction as they may designate:
(1) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 5.7 of this chapter;
(2) All function reserved to the Commission in § 5.10 of this chapter;
(3) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 5.11 of this chapter;
(4) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 5.12 of this chapter, except for those relating to nonpublic treatment of reports set forth in § 5.12(i) of this chapter; and
(5) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 5.14 of this chapter.
(b) The Director of the Market Participants Divisionmay submit any matter which has been delegated to him or her under paragraph (a) of this section to the Commission for its consideration.
(c) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and to such members of the Commission's staff actingunder their direction as they may designate:
(1) The authority to review applications for registration as a derivatives clearing organization filed with the Commission under § 39.3(a)(1) of this chapter, to determine that an application is materially complete pursuant to § 39.3(a)(2) of this chapter, to request additional information in support of an application pursuant to § 39.3(a)(4) of this chapter, to extend the review period for an application pursuant to § 39.3(a)(7) of this chapter, to stay the running of the 180-day review period if an application is incomplete pursuant to § 39.3(b)(1) of this chapter, to review requests for amendments to orders of registration filed with the Commission under § 39.3(d)(1) of this chapter, to request additional information in support of a request for an amendment to an order of registration pursuant to § 39.3(d)(2) of this chapter, and to request additional information in support of a rule submission pursuant to § 39.3(g)(3) of this chapter;
(2) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 39.4(a) of this chapter;
(3) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 39.5(b)(2), (b)(3)(ix), (c)(1), and (d)(3) of this chapter;
(4) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 39.6 of this chapter, except for the authority to:
(i) Grant an exemption under § 39.6(a) of this chapter;
(ii) Prescribe conditions to an exemption under § 39.6(b) of this chapter;
(iii) Modify or terminate an exemption under § 39.6(f)(4) of this chapter; and
(iv) Terminate an exemption under § 39.6(g)(3) of this chapter.
(5) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 39.10(c)(4)(iv) of this chapter;
(6) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 39.11(b)(1)(v), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1) and (3), and (f)(1), and (2) of this chapter;
(7) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 39.12(a)(5)(iii) of this chapter;
(8) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 39.13(g)(8)(ii), (h)(1)(i)(C), (h)(1)(ii), (h)(3)(i) and (ii), and (h)(5)(i)(C) of this chapter;
(9) The authority to request additional information in support of a rule submission under §§ 39.13(i)(2) and 39.15(b)(2)(iii) of this chapter;
(10) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 39.19(a), (b)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3)(iv), and (c)(5) of this chapter;
(11) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 39.20(a)(5) of this chapter;
(12) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 39.21(c) of this chapter;
(13) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 39.31 of this chapter; and
(14) The authority to approve the requests described in §§ 39.34(d) and 39.39(f) of this chapter.
(15) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 39.51 of this chapter, except for the authority to:
(i) Grant registration under § 39.51(a) of this chapter;
(ii) Prescribe conditions to registration under § 39.51(b) of this chapter; and
(iii) Modify registration under § 39.51(d)(4) of this chapter.
(d) The Director of Clearing and Risk may submit any matter which has been delegated to them under paragraph (c) of this section to the Commission for its consideration.
(e) Nothing in this section may prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the Director of the Market Participants Division under paragraph (a) or to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk under paragraph (c) of this section.
[78 FR 22420, Apr. 16, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 72514, Dec. 2, 2013; 85 FR 4900, Jan. 27, 2020; 85 FR 67189, Oct. 21, 2020; 86 FR 968, Jan. 7, 2021; 88 FR 53698, Aug. 8, 2023]
§ 140.95
Delegation of authority with respect to withdrawals from registration.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and to the Director of the Market Participants Division and to such members of the Commission's staff acting under their direction as they may designate, the authority to review, postpone, condition, deny, or otherwise act upon a request for withdrawal from registration.
(b) The Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and the Director of the Market Participants Division may submit any matter which has been delegated to them under paragraph (a) of this section to the Commission for its consideration.
(c) Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and to the Director of the Market Participants Division under paragraph (a) of this section.
[46 FR 48918, Oct. 5, 1981, as amended at 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013]
§ 140.96
Delegation of authority to publish in the Federal Register.
(a) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or the Director's designee, or the Director of the Division of Data or the Director's designee, with the concurrence of the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee, the authority to publish in the
Federal Register
notice of the availability for comment of the proposed terms and conditions of applications for contract market designation, swap execution facility and swap data repository registration, and to determine to publish, and to publish, requests for public comment on proposed exchange, swap execution facility, or swap data repository rules, and rule amendments, when there exists novel or complex issues that require additional time to analyze, an inadequate explanation by the submitting registered entity, or a potential inconsistency with the Act, including regulations under the Act.
(b) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or the Director's designee, and to the Director of the Director of the Market Participants Division or the Director's designee, and to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk or the Director's designee, with the concurrence of the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee, the authority to determine to publish, and to publish, in the
Federal Register,
requests for public comment on proposed rule amendments by a derivatives clearing organization, designated contract market, swap data repository, swap execution facility, or registered futures association when publication of the proposed rule amendment is in the public interest and will assist the Commission in considering the views of interested persons.
(c) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight or the Director of the Market Participants Division or the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk or the Director of the Division of Data may submit any matter which has been delegated to such Director under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section to the Commission for its consideration.
(d) Nothing in this section may prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or to the Director of the Market Participants Division or to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk or to the Director of the Division of Data under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[50 FR 47532, Nov. 19, 1985, as amended at 55 FR 35897, Sept. 4, 1990; 57 FR 20638, May 14, 1992; 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 7 FR 66347, Nov. 2, 2012; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013]
§ 140.97
[Reserved]
§ 140.98
Publication of no-action, interpretative and exemption letters and other written communications.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and except for applications for orders granting exemptions submitted pursuant to section 4(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act and any written responses thereto, each written response by the Commission or its staff to a letter or other written communication requesting:
(1) Interpretative legal advice with respect to the Commodity Exchange Act or any rule, regulation or order issued or adopted by the Commission thereunder;
(2) A statement that, on the basis of the facts stated in such letter or other communication, the staff would not recommend that the Commission take any enforcement action; or
(3) An exemption, on the basis of the facts stated in such letter or other communication, from the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act or any rules, or regulations or orders issued or adopted by the Commission thereunder; shall be made available, together with the letter or other written communication making the request, for inspection and copying by any person as soon as practicable after the response has been sent or given to the person requesting it.
(b) Any person submitting a letter or other written communication making such a request may also submit therewith a request that the letter or other written communication, as well as any Commission or staff response thereto, be accorded confidential treatment for a specified period of time, not exceeding 120 days from the date of the response thereto, together with a statement setting forth the considerations upon which the request for such treatment is based. If the staff determines that the request is reasonable and appropriate it will be granted and the letter or other written communication as well as the response thereto will not be made available for public inspection or copying until the expiration of the specified period. If it appears to the staff that the request for confidential treatment should be denied, the staff shall so advise the person making the request and such person may withdraw the letter or other written communication within 30 days thereafter. In such case, no response will be sent or given and the letter or other written communication shall remain in the Commission's files but will not be made public pursuant to this section. If such letter or other written communication is not so withdrawn, it shall be deemed to be available for public inspection and copying together with any written response thereto.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, no portion of a letter or other written communication received by the Commission or its staff of the type described in paragraph (a) of this section, or any written response thereto, shall be made available for inspection and copying or otherwise published which would separately disclose the business transactions or market positions of any person and trade secrets or names of customers, except in accordance with the provisions of section 8 of the Commodity Exchange Act.
[57 FR 61291, Dec. 24, 1992]
§ 140.99
Requests for exemptive, no-action and interpretative letters.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section:
(1)
Exemptive letter
means a written grant of relief issued by the staff of a Division of the Commission from the applicability of a specific provision of the Act or of a rule, regulation or order issued thereunder by the Commission. An exemptive letter may only be issued by staff of a Division when the Commission itself has exemptive authority
and that authority has been delegated by the Commission to the Division in question. An exemptive letter binds the Commission and its staff with respect to the relief provided therein. Only the Beneficiary may rely upon the exemptive letter.
(2)
No-action letter
means a written statement issued by the staff of a Division of the Commission or of the Office of the General Counsel that it will not recommend enforcement action to the Commission for failure to comply with a specific provision of the Act or of a Commission rule, regulation or order if a proposed transaction is completed or a proposed activity is conducted by the Beneficiary. A no-action letter represents the position only of the Division that issued it, or the Office of the General Counsel if issued thereby. A no-action letter binds only the issuing Division or the Office of the General Counsel, as applicable, and not the Commission or other Commission staff. Only the Beneficiary may rely upon the no-action letter.
(3)
Interpretative letter
means written advice or guidance issued by the staff of a Division of the Commission or the Office of the General Counsel. An interpretative letter binds only the issuing Division or the Office of the General Counsel, as applicable, and does not bind the Commission or other Commission staff. An interpretative letter may be relied upon by persons in addition to the Beneficiary.
(4)
Letter
means an exemptive, no-action or interpretative letter.
(5)
Division
means the Market Participants Division, the Division of Clearing and Risk, the Division of Market Oversight, the Division of Data, or the Office of the General Counsel, or any successor divisions or organizational units, as the context requires.
(b)
General requirements.
(1) Issuance of a Letter is entirely within the discretion of Commission staff.
(2) Each request for a Letter must comply with the requirements of this section. Commission staff may reject or decline to respond to a request that does not comply with the requirements of this section.
(3) The request must relate to a proposed transaction or a proposed activity. Absent extraordinary circumstances, Commission staff will not issue a Letter based upon transactions or activities that have been completed or activities that have been conducted prior to the date upon which the request is filed with the Commission.
(4) The request must be made by or on behalf of the person whose activities or transactions are the subject of the request. Commission staff will not respond to a request for a Letter that is made by or on behalf of an unidentified person.
(5)(i) The request must set forth as completely as possible all material facts and circumstances giving rise to the request.
(ii) Commission staff will not respond to a request based on a hypothetical situation. However, a requester may set forth one or more alternative structures or fact situations for a proposed transaction or activity;
Provided,
That the request complies with this section with respect to each alternative structure or fact situation.
(c)
Information requirements.
Each request for a Letter must comply with the following information requirements:
(1)(i) A request made by the person on whose behalf the Letter is sought must contain:
(A) The name, main business address, main telephone number and, if applicable, the National Futures Association registration identification number of such person; and
(B) The name and, if applicable, the National Futures Association registration identification number of each other person for whose benefit the person is seeking the Letter.
(ii) When made by a requester other than the person on whose behalf the Letter is sought, the request must contain:
(A) The name, main business address and main business telephone number of the requester;
(B) The name and, if applicable, the National Futures Association registration identification number of the person on whose behalf the Letter is sought; and
(C) The name and, if applicable, the National Futures Association registration identification number of each
other person for whose benefit the requester is seeking the Letter.
(iii) The request must provide the name, address and telephone number of a contact person from whom Commission staff may obtain additional information if necessary.
(2) The section number of the particular provision of the Act and/or Commission rules, regulations or orders to which the request relates must be set forth in the upper right-hand corner of the first page of the request.
(3) The request must be accompanied by:
(i) A certification by a person with knowledge of the facts that the material facts as represented in the request are true and complete. The following form of certification is sufficient for this purpose:
I hereby certify that the material facts set forth in the attached letter dated ____ are true and complete to the best of my knowledge.
(name and title)
and
(ii) An undertaking made by the person on whose behalf the Letter is sought or by that person's authorized representative that, if at any time prior to issuance of a Letter, any material representation made in the request ceases to be true and complete, the person who made the undertaking will ensure that Commission staff is informed promptly in writing of all materially changed facts and circumstances. If a material change in facts or circumstances occurs subsequent to issuance of a Letter, the person on whose behalf the Letter is sought (or that person's authorized representative at the time of the change) must promptly so inform Commission staff.
(4) The request must identify the type of relief requested and Letter sought and must clearly state why a Letter is needed. The request must identify all relevant legal and factual issues and discuss the legal and public policy bases supporting issuance of the Letter.
(5) The request must contain references to all relevant authorities, including applicable provisions of the Act, Commission rules, regulations and orders, judicial decisions, administrative decisions, relevant statutory interpretations and policy statements. Adverse authority must be cited and discussed.
(6) The request must identify prior publicly available Letters issued by Commission staff in response to circumstances similar to those surrounding the request (including adverse Letters), and must identify any conditions imposed by prior Letters as prerequisites for the issuance of those Letters. Citation of a representative sample of prior Letters is sufficient where a comprehensive recitation of prior Letters on a given topic would be repetitious or would not assist the staff in considering the request.
(7) Requests may ask that, if the requested exemptive relief, no-action position or interpretative guidance is denied, the staff consider granting alternative relief or adopting an alternative position.
(d)
Filing requirements.
Each request for a Letter must comply with the following filing requirements:
(1) The request must be in writing and signed.
(2)(i)(A) A request for a letter relating to the provisions of the Act or the Commission's rules, regulations, or orders issued thereunder governing designated contract markets, registered swap execution facilities, registered swap data repositories, registered foreign boards of trade, the nature of particular transactions and whether they are exempt or excluded from being required to be traded on one of the foregoing entities, made available for trading determinations, position limits, hedging exemptions, the trading of block trades, or position aggregation treatment shall be filed with the Director, Division of Market Oversight, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(B) A request for a letter regarding the form and manner of data reporting, data standards for reporting, or the content of any trade report or form to be submitted to the Commission, under Parts 15-20, 43, 45, 46, or 49, shall be filed with the Director, Division of Data at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(ii) A request for a Letter relating to the provisions of the Act or the Commission's rules, regulations or orders governing or related to derivatives clearing organizations and other central counterparties, the clearing process, the clearing requirement determination, Commission regulation 1.25 jointly with the Director of the Market Participants Division, risk assessment, financial surveillance, the end user exemption, and bankruptcy shall be filed with the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(iii) A request for a Letter relating to all other provisions of the Act or Commission rules, including Commission regulation 1.25 jointly with the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, shall be filed with the Director of the Market Participants Division at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(iv) The requests described in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section must be submitted electronically using the email address
dmoletters@cftc.gov
(for a request filed with the Division of Market Oversight),
dcrletters@cftc.gov
(for a request filed with the Division of Clearing and Risk), or
dodletters@cftc.gov
(for a request filed with the Division of Data), or
mpdletters@cftc.gov
(for a request filed with the Market Participants Division), as appropriate, and a properly signed paper copy of the request must be provided to the Division of Market Oversight, the Division of Data, the Division of Clearing and Risk, or the Market Participants Division, as appropriate, pursuant to paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable, within ten days for purposes of verification of the electronic submission.
(e)
Form of staff response.
No response to any request governed by this section is effective unless it is in writing, signed by appropriate Commission staff, and transmitted in final form to the recipient. Failure by Commission staff to respond to a request for a Letter does not constitute approval of the request. Nothing in this section shall preclude Commission staff from responding to a request for a Letter by way of endorsement or any other abbreviated, written form of response.
(f)
Withdrawal of requests.
(1) A request for a Letter may be withdrawn by filing with Commission staff a written request for withdrawal, signed by the person on whose behalf the Letter was sought or by that person's authorized representative, that states whether the person on whose behalf the Letter was sought will proceed with the proposed transaction or activity.
(2) Where a request has been submitted by an authorized representative of the person on whose behalf a Letter is sought, the authorized representative may withdraw from representation at any time without explanation,
Provided,
That Commission staff is promptly so notified.
(g)
Failure to pursue a request.
In the event that Commission staff requests additional information or analysis from a requester and the requester does not provide that information or analysis within thirty calendar days, Commission staff generally will issue a denial of the request;
Provided, however,
that Commission staff in its discretion may issue an extension of time to provide the information and or analysis.
(h)
Confidential treatment.
Confidential treatment of a request for a Letter must be requested separately in accordance with § 140.98 or § 145.9 of this chapter, as applicable.
(i)
Applicability to other sections.
The provisions of this section shall not affect the requirements of, or otherwise be applicable to:
(1) Notice filings required to be made to claim relief from the Act or from a Commission rule, regulation, or order including, without limitations, §§ 4.5, 4.7(a), 4.7(b), 4.12(b), 4.13(b) and 4.14(a)(8) of this chapter;
(2) Requests for exemption pursuant to section 4(c) of the Act; or
(3) Requests for exemption pursuant to § 41.33 of this chapter.
[63 FR 68181, Dec. 10, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 47859, Aug. 4, 2000; 66 FR 44967, Aug. 27, 2001; 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 69 FR 41426, July 9, 2004; 77 FR 66347, Nov. 2, 2012; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 80 FR 59578, Oct. 2, 2015; 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]

# Subpart C—Regulation Concerning Conduct of Members and Employees and Former Members and Employees of the Commission

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 4a(f) and (j), 12a(5), and 13, as amended by the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, Appendix E of Pub. L. 106-554, 114 Stat. 2763 (2000).

# Source:
41 FR 27511, July 2, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 140.735-1
Authority and purpose.
This subpart sets forth specific standards of conduct required of Commission members, employees of the Commission, and special government employees as well as regulations concerning former Commissioners, employees, and special government employees of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. These rules are separate from and in addition to the Office of Government Ethics' conduct rules, Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch, 5 CFR part 2635. In addition, this subpart contains references to various statutes governing employee conduct in order to aid Commission members, employees of the Commission and others in their understanding of statutory restrictions and requirements.
1
Absent compelling countervailing reasons, all Commission members and employees are subject to all the terms of this section.
1
These references, however, do not purport to cover all restrictions and requirements, and paraphrased restatements of statutory provisions are not intended to be, and should not be construed as, verbatim quotations of the law. Statutory text should be consulted in any situation in which it might apply.
[67 FR 5939, Feb. 8, 2002]
§ 140.735-2
Prohibited transactions.
(a)
Application.
This section applies to all transactions effected by or on behalf of a Commission member or employee of the Commission, including transactions for the account of other persons effected by the member or employee, directly or indirectly under a power of attorney or otherwise. A member or employee shall be deemed to have a sufficient interest in the transactions of his or her spouse, minor child, or other relative who is a resident of the immediate household of the member or employee so that such transactions must be reported and are subject to all the terms of this section.
(b)
Prohibitions.
Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, no member or employee of the Commission shall:
(1) Participate, directly or indirectly, in any transaction:
(i) In swaps;
(ii) In commodity futures;
(iii) In retail forex transactions, as that term is defined in § 5.1(m) of this chapter;
(iv) Involving any commodity that is of the character of or which is commonly known to the trade as an option, privilege, indemnity, bid, offer, put, call, advance guaranty, or decline guaranty; or
(v) For the delivery of any commodity under a standardized contract commonly known to the trade as a margin account, margin contract, leverage account, or leverage contract, or under any contract, account, arrangement, scheme, or device that the Commission determines serves the same function or functions as such a standardized contract, or is marketed or managed in substantially the same manner as such a standardized contract;
(2) Effect any purchase or sale of a commodity option, futures contract, or swap involving a security or group of securities;
(3) Sell a security which he or she does not own or consummate a sale by the delivery of a security borrowed by or for his or her account;
(4) Participate, directly or indirectly, in any investment transaction in an actual commodity if:
(i) Nonpublic information is used in the investment transaction;
(ii) It is prohibited by rule or regulation of the Commission; or
(iii) It is effected by means of any instrument regulated by the Commission and is not otherwise permitted by an exception under this section;
(5) Purchase or sell any securities of a company which, to his or her knowledge, is involved in any:
(i) Pending investigation by the Commission;
(ii) Proceeding before the Commission or to which the Commission is a party;
(iii) Other matter under consideration by the Commission that could have a direct and predictable effect upon the company; or
(6) Recommend or suggest to another person any transaction in which the member or employee is not permitted to participate in any circumstance where the member or employee could reasonably expect to benefit or where the member or employee has or may have control or substantial influence over such person.
(c)
Exception for farming, ranching, and natural resource operations.
The prohibitions in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), and (iv) of this section shall not apply to a transaction in connection with any farming, ranching, oil and gas, mineral rights, or other natural resource operation in which the member or employee has a financial interest, if he or she is not involved in the decision to engage in, and does not have prior knowledge of, the actual futures, commodity option, or swap transaction and has previously notified the General Counsel
2
in writing of the nature of the operation, the extent of the member's or employee's interest, the types of transactions in which the operation may engage, and the identity of the person or persons who will make trading decisions for the operation;
3
or
2
As used in this subpart, “General Counsel” refers to the General Counsel in his or her capacity as counselor for the Commission and designated agency ethics official for the Commission, and includes his or her designee and the alternate designated agency ethics official appointed by the agency head pursuant to 5 CFR 2638.202.
3
Although not required, if they choose to do so, members or employees may use powers of attorney or other arrangements in order to meet the notice requirements of, and to assure that they have no control or knowledge of, futures, commodity option, or swap transactions permitted under paragraph (c) of this section. A member or employee considering such arrangements should consult with the Office of General Counsel in advance for approval. Should a member or employee gain knowledge of an actual futures, commodity option, or swap transaction entered into by an operation described in paragraph (c) of this section that has already taken place and the market position represented by that transaction remains open, he or she should promptly report that fact and all other details to the General Counsel and seek advice as to what action, including recusal from any particular matter that will have a direct and predictable effect on the financial interest in question, may be appropriate.
(d)
Other exceptions.
The prohibitions in paragraphs (b)(1), (2) and (3) of this section shall not apply to:
(1) A transaction entered into by any publicly-available pooled investment vehicle (such as a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund) other than one operated by a person who is a commodity pool operator with respect to such entity if the direct or indirect ownership interest of the member or employee neither exercises control nor has the ability to exercise control over the transactions entered into by such vehicle;
4
4
Section 9(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act makes it a felony for any member or employee, or agent thereof, to participate, directly or indirectly in,
inter alia,
any transaction in commodity futures, option, leverage transaction, or other arrangement that the Commission determines serves the same function, unless authorized to do so by Commission rule or regulation. 17 CFR 4.5 excludes certain otherwise regulated persons from the definition of “commodity pool operator” with respect to operation of specific investment entities enumerated in the regulation.
(2) The acceptance or exercise of any stock option or similar right granted by an employer as part of a compensation package to a spouse or minor child or other related member of the immediate household of a member or employee, or to the exercise of any stock option or similar right granted to the member or employee by a previous employer prior to commencement of the member's or employee's tenure with the Commission as part of such member's or employee's compensation package from such previous employer;
(3) A transaction by any trust or estate of which the member or employee or the spouse, minor child, or other related member of the immediate household of the member or employee is solely a beneficiary, has no power to control, and does not in fact control or
advise with respect to the investments of the trust or estate;
(4) The exercise of any privilege to convert or exchange securities, of rights accruing unconditionally by virtue of ownership of other securities (as distinguished from a contingent right to acquire securities not subscribed for by others), or of rights in order to round out fractional shares in securities;
(5) The acceptance of stock dividends on securities already owned, the reinvestment of cash dividends on a security already owned, or the participation in a periodic investment plan when the original purchase was otherwise consistent with this rule; or
(6) Investment in any fund established pursuant to the Federal Employees Retirement System.
(e)
No prohibition on stocks or funds.
Nothing in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section shall prohibit a member or employee from purchasing, selling, or retaining any share that represents ownership of a publicly-owned corporation or interest in a publicly-available pooled investment vehicle containing any such shares (such as a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund) other than one operated by a person who is a commodity pool operator with respect to such pooled investment vehicle, regardless of whether any security futures product may at any time be or have been based upon shares of such corporation or pooled investment vehicle, and regardless of whether such pooled investment vehicle may, by design or effect, track or follow any group of securities that also underlies a futures contract.
(f)
Exception applicable to legally separated employees.
This section shall not apply to transactions of a legally separated spouse of a member or employee, including transactions for the benefit of a minor child, if the member or employee has no power to control, and does not, in fact, advise or control with respect to such transactions. If the member or employee has actual or constructive knowledge of such transactions of a legally separated spouse or for the benefit of a minor child, the disqualification provisions of § 140.735-2a(d)(2)(i)-(iii) and 18 U.S.C. 208 are applicable.
[67 FR 5939, Feb. 8, 2002, as amended at 77 FR 66347, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 140.735-2a
Prohibited interests.
(a)
Application.
This section applies to all financial interests of a Commission member or employee of the Commission, including financial interests held by the member or employee for the account of other persons. A member or employee shall be deemed to have a sufficient interest in the financial interests of his or her spouse, minor child, or other relative who is a resident of the immediate household of the member or employee, so that such financial interests must be reported and are subject to all the terms of this section.
(b)
Prohibitions.
Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, no member or employee of the Commission shall:
(1) Have a financial interest, through ownership of securities or otherwise, in any person
5
registered with the Commission (including futures commission merchants, associated persons and agents of futures commission merchants, floor brokers, commodity trading advisors and commodity pool operators, and any other persons required to be registered in a fashion similar to any of the above under the Commodity Exchange Act or pursuant to any rule or regulation promulgated by the Commission), or any contract market, swap execution facility, swap data repository, board of trade, or other trading facility, or any derivatives clearing organization subject to regulation or oversight by the Commission;
6
5
As defined in section 1a(38) of the Commodity Exchange Act and 17 CFR 1.3(u) thereunder, a “person” includes an individual, association, partnership, corporation and a trust.
6
Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 208.
7
[Reserved]
(c)
Exceptions.
The prohibitions in paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to:
(1) A financial interest in any publicly-available pooled investment vehicle (such as a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund) other than one operated by a person who is a commodity pool
operator with respect to such entity if such vehicle does not have invested, or indicate in its prospectus the intent to invest, ten percent or more of its assets in securities of persons described in paragraph (b) of this section and the member or employee neither exercises control nor has the ability to exercise control over the financial interests held in such vehicle;
(2) A financial interest in any corporate parent or affiliate of a person described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the operations of such person provide less than ten percent of the gross revenues of the corporate parent or affiliate;
8
8
It is the member's or employee's responsibility to monitor his or her financial interests and those of a spouse or minor child or other related member of his or her immediate household, to promptly report relevant changes to the General Counsel in writing, and to seek the advice of the General Counsel as to what action may be appropriate. In this regard, attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 208, which bars an employee from participating in any particular matter that will have a direct and predictable effect on the financial interest in question.
(3) A financial interest in any trust or estate of which the member or employee is solely a beneficiary, has no power to control, and does not in fact control or advise with respect to the investments of the trust or estate; except that such interest is subject to the provisions of paragraphs (d) and (f) of this section.
(d)
Retention or passive acquisition of prohibited financial interests.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit a member or employee, or a spouse or minor child or other related member of the immediate household of the member or employee, from:
(1) Retaining a financial interest that was permitted to be retained by the member or employee prior to the adoption of this regulation, was obtained prior to the commencement of employment with the Commission, or was acquired by a spouse prior to marriage to the member or employee; or
(2) Acquiring, retaining, or controlling an otherwise prohibited financial interest, including but not limited to any security or option on a security (but not a security futures product), where the financial interest was acquired by inheritance, gift, stock split, involuntary stock dividend, merger, acquisition, or other change in corporate ownership, exercise of preemptive right, or otherwise without specific intent to acquire the financial interest, or by a spouse or minor child or other related member of the immediate household of the member or employee as part of an employment compensation package;
provided, however,
that retention of any interest allowed by paragraph (c)(3) or (d) of this section is permitted only where the employee:
(i) Makes full disclosure of any such interest on his or her annual financial disclosure (Standard Form 278 or Standard Form 450);
(ii) Makes full written disclosure to the General Counsel within 30 days of commencing employment or, for incumbents, within twenty days of his or her receipt of actual or constructive notice that the interest has been acquired;
9
and
9
Changes in holdings, other than by purchase, which do not affect disqualification, such as those resulting from the automatic reinvestment of dividends, stock splits, stock dividends or reclassifications, may be reported on the annual statement, SF 278 or SF 450, rather than when notification of the transaction is received. Acquisition by, for example, gifts, inheritance, or spinoffs, which may result in additional disqualifications pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section and 18 U.S.C. 208 shall be reported to the General Counsel within 20 days of the receipt of actual or constructive notice thereof.
(iii) Will be disqualified in accordance with 5 CFR part 2635, subpart D, and 18 U.S.C. 208 from participating in any particular matter that will have a direct and predictable effect on the financial interest in question. Any Commission member or employee affected by this section may, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 208(b)(1) and 5 CFR 2640.301-303, request a waiver of the disqualification requirement.

# Note:
With respect to any financial interest retained under paragraph (c)(3) or (d) of this section, Commission members and employees are reminded of their obligations under 18 U.S.C. 208 and 5 CFR part 2635, subpart D, to disqualify themselves from participating in any particular matter in which
they, their spouses or minor children have a financial interest.
(e)
Exception applicable to legally separated employees.
This section shall not apply to the financial interests of a legally separated spouse of a Commission member or employee, including transactions for the benefit of a minor child, if the member or employee has no power to control and does not, in fact, advise or control with respect to such transactions. If the member or employee has actual or constructive knowledge of such financial interests held by a legally separated spouse or for the benefit of a minor child, the disqualification provisions of paragraphs (d)(2)(i)-(iii) of this section and 18 U.S.C. 208 are applicable.
(f)
Divestiture.
Based upon a determination of substantial conflict under 5 CFR 2635.403(b) and 18 U.S.C. 208, the Commission, or its designee, may require in writing that a member or employee, or the spouse or minor child or other related member of the immediate household of a member or employee, divest a financial interest that he or she is otherwise authorized to retain under this section.
10
10
Any evidence of a violation of 18 U.S.C. 208 must be reported by the General Counsel to the Commission, which may refer the matter to the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice and the United States Attorney in whose venue the violations lie.
See
28 U.S.C. 535.
[67 FR 5940, Feb. 8, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 77 FR 66348, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 140.735-3
Non-governmental employment and other outside activity.
A Commission member or employee shall not accept employment or compensation from any person, exchange, swap execution facility, swap data repository or derivatives clearing organization subject to regulation by the Commission. For purposes of this section, a person subject to regulation by the Commission includes but is not limited to a contract market, swap execution facility, swap data repository or derivatives clearing organization or member thereof, a registered futures commission merchant, any person associated with a futures commission merchant or with any agent of a futures commission merchant, floor broker, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator or any person required to be registered in a fashion similar to any of the above or file reports under the Act or pursuant to any rule or regulation promulgated by the Commission.
11
11
Attention is directed to section 2(a)(8) of the Commodity Exchange Act, which provides, among other things, that no Commission member or employee shall accept employment or compensation from any person, exchange or derivatives clearing organization (“clearinghouse”) subject to regulation by the Commission, or participate, directly or indirectly, in any contract market operations or transactions of a character subject to regulation by the Commission.
[ 77 FR 66348, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 140.735-4
Receipt and disposition of foreign gifts and decorations.
(a) For purposes of this section only:
(1)
Commission member
or
employee
means any Commission member or any person employed by or who occupies an office or a position in the Commission; an expert or consultant under contract with the Commission, or in the case of an organization performing services under such contract, any individual involved in the performance of such service; and the spouse, unless the individual and his or her spouse are separated, and any dependent, as defined by section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, of any such person.
(2)
Foreign government
means:
(A) Any unit of foreign governmental authority, including any foreign national, state, local, and municipal government;
(B) Any international or multinational organization whose membership is composed of any unit of foreign government described in paragraph (a)(2)(A) of this section; and
(C) Any agent or representative of any such unit or such organization, while acting as such.
(3)
Gift
means a tangible or intangible present (other than a decoration) tendered by, or received from, a foreign government, except grants and other forms of assistance to which section 108A of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 applies.
(4)
Decoration
means an order, device, medal, badge, insignia, emblem, or award tendered by, or received from, a foreign government.
(5)
Minimal value
means a retail value in the United States at the time of acceptance of $140 or less, except as redefined to reflect changes in the consumer price index at three year intervals by the Administrator of General Services pursuant to authority granted in 5 U.S.C. 7342(a)(5)(A).
(b) Commission members and employees shall not:
(1) Request or otherwise encourage the tender of a gift or decoration;
(2) Accept a gift of currency, except that which has an historical or numismatic value;
(3) Accept gifts of travel or gifts of expenses for travel, such as transportation, food and lodging, from foreign governments, other than those authorized in paragraph (c)(5) of this section; or
(4) Accept any gift or decoration, except as authorized by this section.
(c) Gifts which may be accepted:
(1) Commission members and employees may accept and retain gifts of minimal value tendered or received as a souvenir or mark of courtesy from a foreign government without further approval. If the value of a gift is uncertain, the recipient shall be responsible for establishing that it is of minimal value, as defined in this section. Documentary evidence may be required in support of the valuation.
(2) Commission members and employees may accept, on behalf of the United States, gifts of more than minimal value tendered or received from a foreign government when it appears that to refuse the gift would likely cause offense or embarrassment or otherwise adversely affect the foreign relations of the United States. When a tangible gift of more than minimal value is accepted on behalf of the United States, it becomes the property of the United States.
(3) Commission members and employees may accept a gift of more than minimal value where such gift is in the nature of an educational scholarship or medical treatment.
(4) Within 60 days after accepting a tangible gift of more than minimal value, other than a gift described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, a Commission member or employee shall file a statement with the Executive Director of the Commission which shall include the following information:
(A) The name and position of the Commission member or employee;
(B) A brief description of the gift and the circumstances justify acceptance;
(C) The identity, if known, of the foreign government and the name and position of the individual who presented the gift;
(D) The date of acceptance of the gift;
(E) The estimated value in the United States of the gift at the time of acceptance; and
(F) The disposition or current location of the gift.
(5) Commission members and employees are authorized to accept from a foreign government gifts of travel or gifts of expenses for travel taking place entirely outside the United States, such as transportation, food and lodging, of more than minimal value if the acceptance is approved by the Executive Director, upon a finding that it is consistent with the interests of the Commission. Either prior to or within 30 days after accepting each gift of travel or gift of travel expenses pursuant to this paragraph, the Commission member or employee concerned shall file a statement with the Executive Director containing the following information:
(A) The name and position of the Commission member or employee;
(B) A brief description of the gift and the circumstances justifying acceptance;
(C) The identity, if known, of the foreign government and the name and position of the individual who presented the gift; and
(D) The date of acceptance.
(6) Not later than January 31 of each year the Executive Director shall compile a listing of all statements filed during the preceding year by Commission members and employees pursuant to paragraphs (c)(4) and (c)(5) of this section and shall transmit the listing to the Secretary of State.
(d) Commission members or employees may accept, retain and wear decorations tendered by a foreign government in recognition of active field service in time of combat operations or awarded for other outstanding or unusually meritorious performance, subject to the approval of the Executive Director. Without this approval, the decoration is deemed to have been accepted on behalf of the United States, shall become the property of the United States, and shall be deposited by the employee, within 60 days of acceptance, with the Executive Director for official use or forwarding to the Administrator of General Services for disposal in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. Under normal circumstances, it can be expected that a Commission member or employee will be notified of the intent of a foreign government to award him or her or a spouse or dependent a decoration for outstanding or unusually meritorious service sufficiently in advance so that the approval required can be sought prior to its acceptance. A request for the approval of the Executive Director shall be submitted in writing, stating the nature of the decoration and the reason why it is being awarded. Whenever possible, the request should also be accompanied by a statement from the foreign government, preferably in the form of the citation, which shows the basis for the tender of the award, whether it is in recognition of active field service in time of combat operations or for other outstanding or unusually meritorious performance.
(e) Within 60 days after acceptance of a tangible gift of more than minimal value or a decoration for which the Executive Director has not given approval, a Commission member or employee shall:
(1) Deposit the gift or decoration for disposal with the Executive Director; or
(2) Subject to the approval of the Commission, upon the recommendation of the Executive Director, deposit the gift or decoration with the Commission for official use.
A gift or decoration may be retained for official use if the Commission determines that it can be properly displayed in an area accessible to employees and members of the public. Within 30 days after termination of the official use of a gift, the Executive Director shall forward the gift to the Administrator of General Services in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
(f) Whenever possible, gifts and decorations that have been deposited with the Executive Director for disposal shall be returned to the donor. The Executive Director, in coordination with the Office of the General Counsel, shall examine the circumstances surrounding the donation, assessing whether any adverse effect on the foreign relations of the United States might result from the return of the gift or decoration to the donor. The appropriate Department of State officials shall be consulted if a question of adverse effect on United States foreign relations arises.
(g) Gifts and decorations that have not been returned to the donor, retained for official use, or for which official use has terminated, shall be forwarded by the Executive Director to the Administrator of General Services for transfer, donation, or other disposal in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended, and 5 U.S.C. 7342.
(h) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 7342(h), the U.S. Attorney General may bring a civil action in any United States district court against any Commission member or employee who knowingly solicits or accepts a gift from a foreign government not consented to by the Congress of the United States in 5 U.S.C. 7342, or who fails to deposit or report such gift as required by 5 U.S.C. 7342. The court may assess a penalty against such Commission member or employee in any amount not exceeding the retail value of the gift improperly solicited or received plus $5,000.
(i) A violation of the requirements set forth in this section by a Commission employee may be cause for appropriate disciplinary action which may be in addition to any penalty prescribed by law.
(j)(1) The burden of proving minimal value shall be on the recipient. In the event of a dispute over the value of a
gift, the Executive Director shall arrange for an outside appraiser to determine whether the gift is of more or less than minimal value.
(2) When requested by the Administrator of Government Services, the Executive Director shall arrange for an appraisal of a gift or decoration.
(k) No appropriated funds of the Commission may be used to buy any tangible gift of more than minimal value for any foreign individual, unless the gift has been approved by Congress.
[47 FR 24115, June 3, 1982. Redesignated at 58 FR 52658, Oct. 12, 1993; 63 FR 32733, June 16, 1998]
§ 140.735-5
Disclosure of information.
A Commission employee or former employee shall not divulge, or cause or allow to be divulged, confidential or non-public commercial, economic or official information to any unauthorized person, or release such information in advance of authorization for its release.
9
Except as directed by the Commission or its General Counsel as provided in these regulations, no Commission employee or former employee is authorized to accept service of any subpoena for documentary information contained in or relating to the files of the Commission. Any employee or former employee who is served with a subpoena requiring testimony regarding non-public information or documents shall, unless the Commission authorizes the disclosure of such information, respectfully decline to disclose the information or produce the documents called for, basing his refusal on these regulations.
10
Any employee or former employee who is served with a subpoena calling for information regarding the Commission's business shall promptly advise the General Counsel of the service of such subpoena, the nature of the information or documents sought, and any circumstances which may bear upon the desirability of making such information or document available in the public interest.
11
In any proceeding in which the Commission is not a party, no employee of the Commission shall testify concerning matters related to the business of the Commission unless authorized to do so by the Commission.
9
Attention is directed to section 9(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, which provides that it shall be a felony punishable by a fine of not more than $500,000 or imprisonment for not more than five years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution—(1) for any Commissioner of the Commission or any employee or agent thereof who, by virtue of his employment or position, acquires information which may affect or tend to affect the price of any commodity future or commodity and which information has not been promptly made public, to impart such information with intent to assist another person, directly or indirectly, to participate in any transaction in commodity futures, any transaction in an actual commodity, or in any transaction of the character of or which is commonly known to the trade as an option, privilege, indemnity, bid, offer, put, call, advance guaranty or decline guaranty, or in any transaction for the delivery of any commodity under a standardized contract commonly known to the trade as a margin account, margin contract, leverage account or leverage contract, or under any contract or other arrangement that the Commission determines to serve the same function or is marketed in the same manner as such standardized contract, and (2) for any person to acquire such information from any Commissioner of the Commission or any employee or agent thereof and to use such information in any of the foregoing transactions.
10
No employee shall disclose such information unless directed to do so by the Commission.
11
The prohibitions regarding confidential or nonpublic information stated above are intended to cover the matters addressed in sections 4(c), 8, and 9(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act as well as nonpublic information under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, the rules of the Commission thereunder, 17 CFR part 145, the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, the rules of the Commission thereunder, 17 CFR part 146, and cases where, apart from specific prohibitions in any statute or rule, the disclosure or use of such information would be unethical.
[58 FR 52658, Oct. 12, 1993]
§ 140.735-6
Practice by former members and employees of the Commission.
(a)
Personal and substantial participation or nonpublic knowledge of a particular matter.
No person who has been a member or employee of the Commission shall ever knowingly make, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before the
Commission in connection with any particular matter involving a specific party or parties
12
in which such person, or one participating with him or her in the particular matter, participated personally and substantially, or gained nonpublic knowledge of facts thereof, while with the Commission.
13
12
The phrase “particular matter involving a specific party or parties” does not apply to general rulemaking, general policy and standards formulation or other similar matters.
See
§ 2637.201(c)(1) of the regulations of the Office of Government Ethics, 5 CFR 2637.201(c)(1);
cf.
, memorandum of the Attorney General dealing with the conflict-of-interest provisions prior to amendment by the Ethics in Government Act (reproduced following 18 U.S.C. 201).
13
Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 207(a)(1), as amended, which generally prohibits former Federal officers and employees permanently from knowingly making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before any Federal (or District of Columbia) department, agency or court, or court martial, or any officer or employee thereof, in connection with any particular matter involving a specific party or parties in which the United States (or the District of Columbia) is a party or has a direct and substantial interest and in which the former officer or employee participated personally and substantially while with the government.
(b)
Particular matter under an individual's official responsibility.
No person who has been a member or employee of the Commission shall, within two years after that employment has ceased, knowingly make, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before the Commission in connection with a particular matter involving a specific party or parties which was actually pending under his official responsibility as a member or employee of the Commission at any time within one year prior to the termination of government service.
14
14
Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 207(a)(2), as amended. Section 207(a)(2) generally prohibits former Federal officers and employees, within two years after their Federal employment has ceased, from knowingly making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before any Federal (or District of Columbia) department, agency or court, or court martial, or any officer or employee thereof, in connection with any particular matter involving a specific party or parties in which the United States (or the District of Columbia) is a party or has a direct and substantial interest and which was actually pending under the official responsibility of the former officer or employee within one year prior to the termination of government service.
As used in paragraph (b) of this section, the term “official responsibility” has the meaning assigned to it in 18 U.S.C. 202(b), namely, the “direct administrative or operating authority, whether intermediate or final, and either exercisable alone or with others, and either personally or through subordinates, to approve, disapprove, or otherwise direct Government action.”
(c)
Restrictions on former members and senior employees.
A former member or employee of the Commission who occupied a “senior” position specified in 18 U.S.C. 207(c)(2), as amended, shall not within one year after such “senior” employment has ceased, knowingly make, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before the Commission on behalf of any other person in connection with any matter in which such person seeks official action by the Commission.
15
15
Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 207(c), as amended, which places restrictions on the representational activities of certain senior officers and employees after their departure from a senior position. Section 207(c) generally makes it unlawful for one year after service in a “senior” position terminates for a former “senior” Federal employee to knowingly make, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an employee of a department or agency in which he served in any capacity during the one year period prior to termination from “senior” service, if that communication or appearance is on behalf of any other person (except the United States), in connection with any matter concerning which he seeks official action by that employee.
Note that the one year period is measured from the date when the employee ceases to be a senior employee, not from the termination of Government service, unless the two occur simultaneously. This provision prohibits communications to or appearances before the Government and does not prohibit “behind-the-scenes” assistance. The restriction does not require that the former employee have ever been in any way involved in the matter that is the subject of the communication or appearance. The restriction applies with respect to any matter, whether or not involving a specific party.
(d)
Exceptions.
The prohibitions contained in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of
this section do not apply to communications solely for the purpose of furnishing scientific or technological information if approved by the Commission or generally to giving testimony under oath or making a statement which is subject to penalty or perjury. Further, the prohibition contained in paragraph (c) of this section does not apply to an uncompensated statement in a particular area within the special knowledge of the former Commission member or employee.
16
16
Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 207(j), as amended (listing other exceptions). Self-representation is not prohibited under section 207.
(e)
Reporting requirement.
Any former member or employee of the Commission who, within two years after ceasing to be such, is employed or retained as the representative of any person (except the United States) in connection with a matter in which it is contemplated that he will appear before or communicate with the Commission shall, within ten days of such retainer or employment, or of the time when appearance before or communication with the Commission is first contemplated, file with the General Counsel of the Commission a statement as to the nature thereof together with any desired explanation as to why it is deemed consistent with this section. Employment of a recurrent character may be covered by a single comprehensive statement. Each such statement should include an appropriate caption indicating that it is filed pursuant to this section. The reporting requirement of this paragraph does not apply to communications incidental to court appearances in litigation involving the Commission.
(f)
Definitions.
As used in this section, the phrase “appearance before the Commission” means any formal or informal appearance on behalf of any person (except the United States) before the Commission, or any member or employee thereof with an intent to influence. As used in this section, the phrase “communication with the Commission” means any oral or written communication made to the Commission, or any member or employee thereof, on behalf of any person (except the United States) with an intent to influence.
(g)
Advisory ruling.
Persons in doubt as to the applicability of this section may apply for an advisory ruling by addressing a letter requesting such a ruling to the General Counsel.
(h)
Procedures for administrative enforcement of statutory restrictions on post-government employment conflicts of interest
17
—(1)
Scope.
The provisions of this paragraph prescribe procedures for administrative enforcement of the restrictions which 18 U.S.C. 207 (a), (b), and (c), as amended, place on appearances before or communications with Federal (and District of Columbia) departments, agencies and courts, and other enumerated entities, as well as the officers and employees thereof, by former Commission members and employees.
17
This section does not apply to employees who leave service after December 31, 1990.
(2)
Investigations.
The General Counsel of the Commission, or his or her designee, shall conduct such investigations as he or she deems appropriate to determine whether any former Commission member or employee have violated 18 U.S.C. 207 (a), (b) or (c), as amended. The General Counsel shall report the results of his or her investigations to the Commission and shall recommend to the Commission such action as he or she deems appropriate.
(3)
Hearings.
Hearings required to be held under the provisions of this section shall be held before an Administrative Law Judge, utilizing the procedures prescribed by the Commission's rules of practice for adjudicatory proceedings (17 CFR part 10), except to the extent that those rules are inconsistent with the provisions of this section. Any proceeding brought under the provisions of this section shall be prosecuted by the General Counsel or his or her designee.
(4)
Sanctions.
If the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that a former Commission member or employee has violated 18 U.S.C. 207 (a), (b) or (c), as amended, the Commission may prohibit that person from making, on behalf of any other person (except the United States), any formal or informal appearance before, or with
the intent to influence any oral or written communication to, the Commission on a pending matter of business for a period not to exceed five years, or may take other appropriate disciplinary action.
[58 FR 52658, Oct. 12, 1993; 58 FR 58593, Nov. 2, 1993]
§ 140.735-7
Statutory violations applicable to conduct of Commission members and employees.
A violation of section 2(a)(7), 8 or 9 (c) or (d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, shall be deemed to be a violation of this subpart as well.
[58 FR 52660, Oct. 12, 1993]
§ 140.735-8
Interpretative and advisory service.
(a)
Counselor for the Commission.
The General Counsel, or his or her designee, will serve as Counselor for the Commission and as the Commission's representative to the Office of Government Ethics, on matters covered by this subpart. The General Counsel will also serve as the Commission's designated agency ethics official to review the financial reports filed by high-level Commission officials under title II of the Ethics in Government Act, as well as otherwise to coordinate and manage the Commission's ethics program.
(b)
Duties of the Counselor.
The Counselor shall:
(1) Coordinate the agency's counseling services and assure that counseling and interpretations on questions of conflict of interests and other matters covered by the regulations in this subpart are available as needed to Regional Deputy Counselors, who shall be appointed by the General Counsel, in coordination with the Chairman of the Commission, for each Regional Office of the Commission;
(2) Render authoritative advice and guidance on matters covered by the regulations in this subpart which are presented to him or her by employees in the Washington, DC headquarters office; and
(3) Receive information on, and resolve or forward to the Commission for consideration, any conflict of interests or apparent conflict of interests which appears in the annual financial disclosure (Standard Form 278 or Standard Form 450), or is disclosed to the General Counsel by a member or employee pursuant to § 140.735-2a(d) of this part, or otherwise is made known to the General Counsel.
(i) A conflict of interests or apparent conflict of interests is considered resolved by the General Counsel when the affected member or employee has executed an ethics agreement pursuant to 5 CFR 2634.801
et seq.
to undertake specific actions in order to
resolve
the actual or apparent conflict.
(ii) If, after advice and guidance from the General Counsel, a member or employee does not execute an ethics agreement, the conflict of interests is considered unresolved and must be referred to the Commission for resolution or further action consistent with 18 U.S.C. 208 and 28 U.S.C. 535.
(iii)
Where an unresolved conflict of interests or apparent conflict of interests is to be forwarded to the Commission by the General Counsel,
the General Counsel will promptly notify the affected member or employee in writing of his or her intent to forward the matter to the Commission. Any member or employee so affected will be afforded an opportunity to be heard by the Commission through written submission.
(c)
Regional Deputy Counselors.
Regional Deputy Counselors shall:
(1) Give advice and guidance as requested to the employees assigned to their respective Regional Offices; and
(2) Receive information on and refer to the Director of Human Resources, any conflict of interests or appearance of conflict of interests in Statements of Employment and Financial Interests submitted by employees to whom they are required to give advice and guidance.
(d)
Confidentiality of communications.
Communications between the Counselor and Regional Deputy Counselors and an employee shall be confidential, except as deemed necessary by the Commission or the Counselor to carry out the purposes of this subpart and of the laws of the United States.
18
18
No attorney-client privilege, however, attaches to such communications since the Counselors are counsel to the Commission, not to the employee. Thus, any evidence of
criminal law violations divulged by an employee to the Counselor must be reported by the latter to the Commission, which may refer the matter to the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice and the United States Attorney in whose venue the violations lie.
(e)
Furnishing of conduct regulations.
The Director of Human Resources shall furnish a copy of this Conduct Regulation to each member, employee, and special government employee immediately upon his or her entrance on duty and shall thereafter, annually, and at such other times as circumstances warrant, bring to the attention of each member and employee this Conduct Regulation and all revisions thereof.
(f)
Availability of counseling services.
The Director of Human Resources shall notify each member, employee, and special government employee of the availability of counseling services and of how and where these services are available at the time of entrance on duty and periodically thereafter.
[58 FR 52660, Oct. 12, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 21955, May 13, 1996; 62 FR 13302, Mar. 20, 1997; 67 FR 5941, Feb. 8, 2002]
Pt. 141

# PART 141—SALARY OFFSET
Sec.
141.1
Purpose and scope.
141.2
Definitions.
141.3
Applicability.
141.4
Notice requirements.
141.5
Hearing.
141.6
Written decision.
141.7
Coordinating offset with another Federal agency.
141.8
Procedures for salary offset.
141.9
Refunds.
141.10
Statute of limitations.
141.11
Non-waiver of rights.
141.12
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5514, E.O. 11609 (redesignated E.O. 12197), 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, and 7 U.S.C. 4a(j), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
55 FR 5207, Feb. 14, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 141.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This regulation provides procedures for the collection by administrative offset of a federal employee's salary without his/her consent to satisfy certain debts owed to the federal government. These regulations apply to employees of other federal agencies and current employees of the Commission who owe debts to the Commission and to current employees of the Commission who owe debts to other federal agencies. This regulation does not apply when the employee consents to recovery from his/her current pay account.
(b) This regulation does not apply to debts or claims arising under:
(1) The Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, 26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
;
(2) The Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
;
(3) The tariff laws of the United States; or
(4) Any case where a collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute.
(c) This regulation does not apply to any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's selection of coverage or a change in coverage under a federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less.
(d) This regulation does not preclude the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action where appropriate under the standards implementing the Federal Claims Collection Act, 31 U.S.C. 3711
et seq.
, 4 CFR parts 101 through 105, 45 CFR part 1177.
(e) This regulation does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of an overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774 or 32 U.S.C. 716 or in any way questioning the amount or validity of the debt by submitting a subsequent claim to the General Accounting Office in accordance with General Accounting Office procedures. This regulation does not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver pursuant to other statutory provisions applicable to the particular debt being collected. Neither the requesting of a waiver nor the filing of a claim with the General Accounting Office will affect the amount or validity of the debt being collected until a waiver has been granted or the debt has been determined to be for an incorrect amount or invalid.
(f) Matters not addressed in these regulations should be reviewed in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards at 4 CFR 101.1
et seq.
§ 141.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part the following definitions will apply:
Agency
means an executive agency as defined at 5 U.S.C. 105 including the U.S. Postal Service, the U.S. Postal Commission, a military department as defined at 5 U.S.C. 102, an agency or court in the judicial branch, an agency of the legislative branch including the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives and other independent establishments that are entities of the Federal government.
Creditor agency
means the agency to which the debt is owed.
Debt
means an amount owed to the United States from sources which include loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interests, fines, forfeitures (except those arising under the Uniform Code of Military Justice), and all other similar sources.
Disposable pay
means the amount that remains from an employee's federal pay after required deductions for social security, federal, state or local income tax, health insurance premiums, retirement contributions, life insurance premiums, federal employment taxes, and any other deductions that are required to be withheld by law.
Hearing official
means an individual responsible for conducting any hearing with respect to the existence or amount of a debt claimed, and who renders a decision on the basis of such hearing. A hearing official shall be an impartial member of the Office of the Executive Director not under the supervision or control of the head of the Commission.
Paying agency
means the agency that employs the individual who owes the debt and authorizes the payment of his/her current pay.
Salary offset
means an administrative offset to collect a debt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his/her consent.
§ 141.3
Applicability.
These regulations are to be followed when:
(a) The Commission is owed a debt by an individual currently employed by another federal agency;
(b) The Commission is owed a debt by an individual who is a current employee of the Commission;
(c) The Commission employs an individual who owes a debt to another federal agency.
§ 141.4
Notice requirements.
(a) Deductions shall not be made unless the employee is provided with written notice of the debt at least 30 days before salary offset commences.
(b) The written notice shall contain:
(1) A statement that the debt is owed and an explanation of its nature, and amount;
(2) The agency's intention to collect the debt by deducting from the employee's current disposable pay account;
(3) The amount, frequency, proposed beginning date, and duration of the intended deduction(s);
(4) An explanation of interest, penalties, and administrative charges, including a statement that such charges will be assessed unless excused in accordance with the Federal Claims Collections Standards at 4 CFR 101.1
et seq.
;
(5) The employee's right to inspect, request, and receive a copy of government records relating to the debt;
(6) The opportunity to establish a written schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt;
(7) The right to a hearing conducted by an impartial hearing official;
(8) The methods and time period for petitioning for hearings;
(9) A statement that the timely filing of a petition for a hearing will stay the commencement of collection proceedings;
(10) A statement that a final decision on the hearing will be issued not later than 60 days after the filing of the petition requesting the hearing unless the
employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(11) A statement that knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the employee to:
(i) Disciplinary procedures appropriate under chapter 75 of 5 U.S.C., 5 CFR part 752, or any other applicable statutes or regulations;
(ii) Penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729-3731, or any other applicable statutory authority; or
(iii) Criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 1001, and 1002 or any other applicable statutory authority.
(12) A statement of other rights and remedies available to the employee under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made; and
(13) Unless there are contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, a statement that amounts paid on or deducted for the debt which are later waived or found not owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee.
§ 141.5
Hearing.
(a)
Request for hearing.
(1) An employee must file a petition for a hearing in accordance with the instructions outlined in the Commission's notice to offset.
(2) A hearing may be requested by filing a written petition addressed to the Executive Director stating why the employee disputes the existence or amount of the debt. The petition for a hearing must be received by the Executive Director no later than fifteen (15) calendar days after the date of the notice to offset unless the employee can show good cause for failing to meet the deadline date.
(b)
Hearing procedures.
(1) The hearing will be presided over by an impartial hearing official.
(2) The hearing shall conform to procedures contained in the Federal Claims Collection Standards 4 CFR 102.3(c). The burden shall be on the employee to demonstrate that the existence or the amount of the debt is in error.
§ 141.6
Written decision.
(a) The hearing official shall issue a written opinion no later than 60 days after the hearing.
(b) The written opinion will include a statement of the facts presented to demonstrate the nature and origin of the alleged debt; the hearing official's analysis, findings and conclusions; the amount and validity of the debt, and the repayment schedule.
§ 141.7
Coordinating offset with another Federal agency.
(a)
The Commission as the creditor agency.
When the Commission determines that an employee of another federal agency owes a delinquent debt to the Commission, the Commission shall as appropriate:
(1) Arrange for a hearing upon the proper petitioning by the employee;
(2) Certify to the paying agency in writing that the employee owes the debt, the amount and basis of the debt, the date on which payment is due, the date the Government's right to collect the debt accrued, and that Commission regulations for salary offset have been approved by the Office of Personnel Management;
(3) If collection must be made in installments, the Commission must advise the paying agency of the amount or percentage of disposable pay to be collected in each installment;
(4) Advise the paying agency of the actions taken under 5 U.S.C. 5514(b) and provide the dates on which action was taken unless the employee has consented to salary offset in writing or signed a statement acknowledging that the Commission has complied with the procedures required by law. The written consent or acknowledgment must be sent to the paying agency;
(5) If the employee is in the process of separating, the Commission must submit its debt claim to the paying agency as provided in this part. The paying agency must certify any amounts already collected, notify the employee, and send a copy of the certification and notice of the employee's separation to the Commission. If the paying agency is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund or similar payments, it
must certify to the agency responsible for making such payments the amount of the debt and that the provisions of 5 CFR 550.1108 have been followed; and
(6) If the employee has already separated and all payments due from the paying agency have been paid, the Commission may request, unless otherwise prohibited, that money payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund or other similar funds be collected by administrative offset.
(b)
The Commission as the paying agency.
(1) Upon receipt of a properly certified debt claim from another agency, deductions will be scheduled to begin at the next established pay interval. The employee must receive written notice from the Commission that the Commission has received a certified debt claim from the creditor agency, the amount of the debt, the date salary offset will begin, and the amount of the deduction(s). The Commission shall not review the merits of the creditor agency's determination of the validity or the amount of the certified claim.
(2) If the employee transfers to another agency after the creditor agency has submitted its debt claim to the Commission and before the debt is collected completely, the Commission must certify the total amount collected. One copy of the certification must be furnished to the employee. A copy must be furnished the creditor agency with notice of the employee's transfer.
§ 141.8
Procedures for salary offset.
(a) Deductions to liquidate an employee's debt will be by the method and in the amount stated in the Commission's notice of intention to offset as provided in § 141.4. Debts will be collected in one lump sum where possible. If the employee is financially unable to pay in one lump sum, collection must be made in installments.
(b) Debts will be collected by deduction at officially established pay intervals from an employee's current pay account unless alternative arrangements for repayment are made.
(c) Installment deductions will be made over a period not greater than the anticipated period of employment. The size of installment deductions must bear a reasonable relationship to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. The deduction for the pay intervals for any period must not exceed 15% of disposable pay unless the employee has agreed in writing to a deduction of a greater amount.
(d) Unliquidated debts may be offset against any financial payment due to a separated employee including but not limited to final salary or leave payments in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716.
§ 141.9
Refunds.
(a) The Commission will refund promptly any amounts deducted to satisfy debts owed to the Commission when the debt is waived, found not owed to the Commission or when directed by an administrative or judicial order.
(b) The creditor agency will promptly return any amounts deducted by the Commission to satisfy debts owed to the creditor agency when the debt is waived, found not owed, or when directed by an administrative or judicial order.
(c) Unless required by law, refunds under this subsection shall not bear interest.
§ 141.10
Statute of limitations.
If a debt has been outstanding for more than 10 years after the agency's right to collect the debt first accrued, the agency may not collect by salary offset unless facts material to the Government's right to collect were not known and could not reasonably have been known by the official or officials who were charged with the responsibility for discovery and collection of such debts.
§ 141.11
Non-waiver of rights.
An employee's involuntary payment of all or any part of a debt collected under these regulations will not be construed as a waiver of any rights that employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provision of contract or law unless there are statutes or contract(s) to the contrary.
§ 141.12
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
Charges may be assessed for interest, penalties, and administrative costs in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 4 CFR 102.13.
Pt. 142

# PART 142—INDEMNIFICATION OF CFTC EMPLOYEES
Sec.
142.1
Purpose and scope.
142.2
Policy.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 4a(j).

# Source:
54 FR 25234, June 14, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 142.1
Purpose and scope.
This part sets forth the policy and procedure with respect to the indemnification of Commission employees who are sued in their individual capacities and suffer an adverse judgment as a result of conduct taken within the scope of employment. (For purposes of this part the term Commission employees includes all present and former Commissioners and employees of the Commission). This part is intended to provide indemnification for adverse judgments for constitutional and federal statutory torts excepted from the Federal Tort Claims Act exclusive remedy provision 28 U.S.C. 2679(b) (as amended by the Federal Employees Liability Reform and Tort Compensation Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-694)). In any lawsuit which is filed against the employee alleging a common law tort occurring within the scope of employment, the United States may be substituted for the individual employee and any liability which may be found will be assessed against the government, pursuant to the Federal Employees Liability Reform and Tort Compensation Act of 1988.
§ 142.2
Policy.
(a) The Commission may indemnify its employees by the payment of available funds, in whole, or in part, for any verdict, judgment or other monetary award which is rendered against any employee, provided that the conduct giving rise to the verdict, judgment or award was taken within the scope of his or her employment with the Commission and that such indemnification is in the interest of the United States, as determined by the Commission.
(b) The Commission may settle or compromise a personal damage claim against its employee by the payment of available funds, at any time, provided the alleged conduct giving rise to the personal damage claim was taken within the scope of employment and that such settlement is in the interest of the United States as determined by the Commission in its discretion.
(c) Absent exceptional circumstances, as determined by the Commission, the Commission will not entertain a request either to agree to indemnify or to settle a personal damage claim before entry of an adverse verdict, judgment or monetary award.
(d) When an employee of the Commission becomes aware that an action may be or has been filed against the employee in his or her individual capacity as a result of conduct taken within the scope of his or her employment, the employee should immediately notify the Commission's Office of the General Counsel that such an action is pending or threatened.
(e) The employee may thereafter request either (1) indemnification to satisfy a verdict, judgment or award entered against the employee or (2) payment to satisfy the requirements of a settlement proposal. The employee shall submit a written request, with documentation including copies of the verdict, judgment, award or settlement proposal, as appropriate, to the head of his or her division or office, who thereupon shall submit to the General Counsel, in a timely manner, a recommended disposition of the request. The General Counsel shall also seek the views of the Department of Justice. The General Counsel shall forward the request, the division or office's recommendation and the General Counsel's recommendation to the Commission for decision.
(f) Any payment under this section either to indemnify a Commodity Futures Trading Commission employee or to settle a personal damage claim shall be contingent upon the availability of
appropriated funds of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
[54 FR 25234, June 14, 1989, as amended at 89 FR 71816, Sept. 4, 2024]
Pt. 143

# PART 143—COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES ARISING FROM ACTIVITIES UNDER THE COMMISSION'S JURISDICTION
Sec.
143.1
Purpose.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
143.2
Notice of claim.
143.3
Interest, penalty charges, and administrative costs.
143.4
Collection by offset.
143.5
Collection by compromise.
143.6
Referral for litigation.
143.7
Delegation of authority to the Executive Director.
143.8
Inflation-adjusted civil monetary penalties.

# Subpart B—Administrative Wage Garnishment
143.9
Administrative wage garnishment orders.
143.10
Garnishment hearings.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 9, 9a, 12a(5), 13a, 13a-1(d), 13(a), 13b; 31 U.S.C. 3701-3720E; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note.

# Source:
50 FR 5384, Feb. 8, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 143.1
Purpose.
This part provides procedures that the Commission will use to collect debts owed the United States arising from activities under the Commission's jurisdiction. As applicable, these procedures are based upon, and conform to, the Federal Claims Collection Act, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 3701-3720E; the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 31 CFR Parts 900-905, issued by the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Justice; administrative wage garnishment regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury, 31 CFR 285.11; and other laws applicable to the collection of non-tax debts owed to the United States arising from activities under the Commission's jurisdiction. Subpart A describes procedures for collection by offset against obligations of the United States to the debtor, by compromise, and by referral to the Department of Justice for litigation. It also sets forth the Commission's policy on collecting interest on unpaid claims, the method used in calculating such interest, and the maximum inflation-adjusted civil monetary penalties that may be assessed and enforced for each violation of the Commodity Exchange Act or regulations or orders of the Commission promulgated thereunder. Subpart B describes procedures for collection by administrative garnishment of the debtor's wages.
[69 FR 52997, Aug. 31, 2004]

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 143.2
Notice of claim.
(a) The Commission will send a written notice to any person who owes payment to the United States under this part, stating the basis for the claim, the interest, penalties, and administrative costs that may be imposed for non-payment, and the date full payment is due.
(b) If the claim is disputed, the debtor shall respond to the notice in writing and state the reasons for non-payment. If the claim is not disputed but full payment is not made by the date indicated in the notice, the debtor shall state the reasons for the failure to make full payment.
(c) If no response or an unsatisfactory response is received by the date indicated in the notice, the Commission may take further action as appropriate under the Commodity Exchange Act or regulations thereunder, or under 31 CFR parts 900-905 or the Federal Claims Collection Act as amended, 31 U.S.C. 3701-3720E.
[50 FR 5384, Feb. 8, 1985, as amended at 69 FR 52997, Aug. 31, 2004]
§ 143.3
Interest, penalty charges, and administrative costs.
(a) The Commission will assess interest on unpaid claims. The rate of interest assessed shall be the rate of the current value of funds to the U.S. Treasury (
i.e.,
the Treasury tax and loan account rate) as prescribed and published by the Secretary of the Treasury. The Commission will charge
penalty fees of not more than 6 percent per year on any portion of a claim that is delinquent for more than 90 days. The Commission will also impose actual administrative costs to cover the processing and handling of delinquent claims.
(b) Interest on claims will be charged and will run from the date the notice of claim is mailed if the amount of the claim is not paid within 30 days from that date. Interest will be calculated only on the principal of the claim. The rate of interest charged is the rate in effect on the date from which interest begins to run. The rate will remain fixed for the duration of the indebtedness.
(c) The Commission may waive in whole or in part interest, penalty charges or administrative costs if it finds that:
(1) The debtor is unable to pay any significant sum within a reasonable period of time;
(2) Collection of interest or penalty charges jeopardizes collection of the principal of the claim; or
(3) It is in the best interests of the United States.
§ 143.4
Collection by offset.
(a) Whenever feasible, the Commission will collect claims under this part by means of administrative offset against obligations of the United States to the debtor.
(b) The Commission will notify the debtor in writing of its intent to use offset procedures to collect the debt unless the debtor agrees to repayment. The notice to the debtor shall include the type and amount of the claim and an explanation of the debtor's rights for records and review under 31 U.S.C. 3716(a).
(c) The Commission will seek to coordinate administrative offset with other federal agencies in accordance with 4 CFR part 102.
§ 143.5
Collection by compromise.
The Commission may settle claims not exceeding $100,000 (excluding interest) by compromise at less than the principal amount of the claim if—
(a) The debtor shows an inability to pay the full amount within a reasonable period of time;
(b) The Government would be unable to enforce collection in full through litigation or administrative means within a reasonable period of time;
(c) The cost of collecting the claim in full is not justified by the amount of the claim; or
(d) The Commission's enforcement policy would be served by settlement of the claim for less than the full amount.
[50 FR 5384, Feb. 8, 1985, as amended at 57 FR 61292, Dec. 24, 1992]
§ 143.6
Referral for litigation.
Claims that cannot be collected by the Commission under this part or for which collection action cannot be ended or suspended under 4 CFR part 104 will be referred to the Department of Justice for litigation.
§ 143.7
Delegation of authority to the Executive Director.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Executive Director or to any Commission employee under the Executive Director's supervision as he or she may designate, authority to take action to carry out subpart A and subpart B of this part and the requirements of 31 CFR parts 900-905 and 31 CFR 285.11.
(b) Delegated waivers or compromise under this part shall be with the concurrence of the General Counsel and the Director of the Division of Enforcement or of their respective designees.
[50 FR 5384, Feb. 8, 1985, as amended at 69 FR 52997, Aug. 31, 2004]
§ 143.8
Inflation-adjusted civil monetary penalties.
(a)
Statutory inflation adjustment of civil monetary penalties.
The Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended, requires annual inflation adjustments to the civil monetary penalties imposed under the Commodity Exchange Act for violations that occurred on or after November 2, 2015. The Commission will publish notice of these adjusted penalty amounts in the
Federal Register.
The inflation adjustment is calculated by multiplying the maximum dollar amount of the civil monetary penalty for the previous calendar
year by the cost-of-living inflation adjustment multiplier provided by the Office Management and Budget, which is based on the change in the Consumer Price Index, and rounding the total to the nearest dollar. Set forth in the charts in paragraph (b) of this section are the inflation adjusted penalty amounts for violations occurring on or after November 2, 2015 and the penalty amounts for violations that occurred prior to November 2, 2015. These penalty charts are also available on the Commission's website at:
http://www.cftc.gov/LawRegulation/Enforcement/InflationAdjustedCivilMonetaryPenalties/index.htm.
(b)
2025 Inflation adjustment.
The maximum amount of each civil monetary penalty in the following charts applies to penalties assessed after January 15, 2025:
(1) For violations other than manipulation or attempted manipulation:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)(1)
U.S. Code citation
Civil monetary penalty description
Date of violation and corresponding penalty
10/23/2004
through
10/22/2008
10/23/2008
through
10/22/2012
10/23/2012
through
11/01/2015
11/02/2015
to present
Civil Monetary Penalty Imposed by the Commission in an Administrative Action
7 U.S.C. 9 (Section 6(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act)
For any person other than a registered entity
1
$130,000
$140,000
$140,000
$206,244
7 U.S.C. 13a (Section 6b of the Commodity Exchange Act)
For a registered entity
1
or any of its directors, officers or employees
625,000
675,000
700,000
1,136,100
Civil Monetary Penalty Imposed by a Federal District Court in a Civil Injunctive Action
7 U.S.C. 13a-1 (Section 6c of the Commodity Exchange Act)
Any Person
130,000
140,000
140,000
227,220
1
The term “Registered Entity” is defined in 7 U.S.C. 1a (Section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act).
(2) For manipulation or attempted manipulation violations:
Table 2 to Paragraph (
b
)(2)
U.S. Code citation
Civil monetary penalty description
Date of violation and corresponding penalty
10/23/2004
through
05/21/2008
05/22/2008
through
08/14/2011
08/15/2011
through
11/01/2015
11/02/2015
to present
Civil Monetary Penalty Imposed by the Commission in an Administrative Action
7 U.S.C. 9 (Section 6(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act)
For any person other than a registered entity
1
$130,000
$1,000,000
$1,025,000
$1,487,712
7 U.S.C. 13a (Section 6b of the Commodity Exchange Act)
For a registered entity
1
or any of its directors, officers or employees
625,000
1,000,000
1,025,000
1,487,712
Civil Monetary Penalty Imposed by a Federal District Court in a Civil Injunctive Action
7 U.S.C. 13a-1 (Section 6c of the Commodity Exchange Act)
Any Person
130,000
1,000,000
1,025,000
1,487,712
1
The term “Registered Entity” is defined in 7 U.S.C. 1a (Section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act).
[83 FR 9428, Mar. 6, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 1502, Jan. 11, 2023; 89 FR 4544, Jan. 24, 2024; 90 FR 8113, Jan. 24, 2025]

# Subpart B—Administrative Wage Garnishment

# Source:
69 FR 52997, Aug. 31, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 143.9
Administrative wage garnishment orders.
Whenever an individual owes the United States a delinquent non-tax debt arising from activities under the Commission's jurisdiction, the Commission, or another federal agency collecting the debt on behalf of the Commission, may initiate administrative proceedings to garnish the disposable income of the delinquent debtor in accordance with the requirements of, and the procedures set forth in, 31 CFR 285.11. The Commission's use of other debt-collection measures set forth in subpart A of this part does not preclude the initiation of an administrative wage garnishment proceeding against a delinquent debtor.
§ 143.10
Garnishment hearings.
Any oral or written hearing required to establish the Commission's right to collect a delinquent debt through administrative wage garnishment shall be presided over by a hearing official designated by the Executive Director, with the concurrence of the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee. Any qualified and impartial employee of the Commission designated by the Executive Director may serve as a hearing official. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of, and the procedures set forth in, 31 CFR 285.11(f). All documents presented to the hearing official for his or her consideration shall be marked as exhibits and retained in the record. All testimony given at an oral hearing, either in person or by telephone, shall be under oath or affirmation; a transcript of the hearing shall be prepared and made part of the record. When a debtor requests a hearing, the designated hearing official shall hold the hearing and issue his or her written decision within 60 days of the Commission's receipt of the request, unless otherwise approved, in writing, by the Executive Director.
Pt. 144

# PART 144—PROCEDURES REGARDING THE DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION AND THE TESTIMONY OF PRESENT OR FORMER OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES IN RESPONSE TO SUBPOENAS OR OTHER DEMANDS OF A COURT
Sec.
144.0
Purpose and scope.
144.1
Service upon the Commission.
144.2
Service upon an employee or former employee of the Commission.
144.3
Testimony by present or former Commission employees.
144.4
Production or disclosure of records by present or former employees.
144.5
Procedures when production or disclosure of Commission records or information relating to Commission business is sought.
144.6
Fees.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 4a(j) and 12a(5); 31 U.S.C. 9701, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
50 FR 11149, Mar. 20, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 144.0
Purpose and scope.
(a) The regulations in this part set forth procedures to be followed with respect to the disclosure, in response to a subpoena, order or other demand (collectively “demand”) of a court or other authority of any material contained in the files of the Commission, of any information relating to material contained in the files of the Commission or any information acquired by any person while such person is or was an employee of the Commission as part of the performance of that person's official duties or by virtue of that person's official status. Employee as used in this part includes both members and employees of the Commission. Demand as used in this part does not include requests for the production of documents in compliance with Fed. R. Civ. P. 34.
(b) Nothing in this part affects disclosure of information under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, the Sunshine Act, 552b, or the Commission's implementing regulations in part 145, 17 CFR 145.0,
et seq.,
or pursuant to Congressional subpoena or pursuant to other Commission regulation. Nothing in this part otherwise permits disclosure of information by the Commission except as is provided by statute or other applicable law.
(c) This part is intended to provide guidance for the internal operations of the Commission and is not intended to, does not, and may not be relied upon to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law against the Commission.
§ 144.1
Service upon the Commission.
(a) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, the Secretary of the Commission is the only person authorized to accept service of a demand directed to the Commission or to an employee of the Commission for documentary information contained in or relating to information contained in the files of the Commission.
(b) Any such demand must be addressed to the Secretary of the Commission, at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(c) In the event that any such demand is attempted to be served upon an employee of the Commission other than the Secretary of the Commission, unless otherwise directed by the Commission's General Counsel, that employee shall respectfully decline to accept service on the ground that the employee is without authority to do so.
(d) The Secretary shall promptly advise the General Counsel of any service of any demand, and the General Counsel shall thereafter advise the Commission regarding the matter.
(e) A demand for information contained in the Commission's files concerning the registration of persons or entities for which authority has been delegated to the National Futures Association must be served upon the National Futures Association, 300 S Riverside Plaza, Suite 1800, Chicago, IL 60606, to the attention of the General Counsel.
[50 FR 11149, Mar. 20, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 49335, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71816, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 144.2
Service upon an employee or former employee of the Commission.
(a) Any employee of the Commission who is served or is attempted to be served with a demand of a court or other authority seeking information or documents relating to the business of the Commission shall promptly advise the General Counsel of the service or attempted service of such demand, the nature of the information or documents sought by the demand and any circumstances that may bear upon the desirability in the public interest of disclosure of the information or the production of documents.
(b) Any former employee of the Commission who is served or is attempted to be served with a demand of a court or other authority seeking information or documents relating to the business of the Commission shall promptly advise the General Counsel of the service or the attempted service of such demand, the nature of the information or documents sought by the demand and any circumstances that might bear upon the desirability in the public interest of the disclosure of the information or the production of documents.
(c) After such further inquiry as appropriate, the General Counsel shall advise the Commission concerning the matter.
§ 144.3
Testimony by present or former Commission employees.
(a) In any proceeding to which the Commission is not a party, an employee of the Commission shall not testify concerning matters related to the business of the Commission unless authorized to do so by the Commission upon the advice of the General Counsel.
(b) In any proceeding, an employee or former employee of the Commission shall not testify concerning non-public matters related to the business of the Commission unless authorized to do so by the Commission upon the advice of the General Counsel. See § 140.735-9 of these regulations.
§ 144.4
Production or disclosure of records by present or former employees.
(a) No employee of the Commission shall, in response to a demand by a court or other authority or otherwise in any proceeding in which the Commission is not a party, produce any material contained in the files of the Commission or disclose any information relating to material contained in the files of the Commission or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as part of the performance of the employee's official duties or by virtue of the employee's official status unless authorized to do so by the Commission, provided that Commission authorization shall not be required to comply with a demand solely for Commission documents generally available to the public. In litigation in which the Commission is a party no employee may produce any confidential Commission material without Commission authorization.
(b) No former employee of the Commission shall, in response to a demand by a court or other authority or otherwise in any proceeding in which the Commission is not a party, produce without Commission authorization any material contained in or from the files of the Commission acquired as part of the performance of the former employee's official duties while employed by the Commission. No former employee may in any litigation produce confidential material acquired as part of the performance of the former employee's official duties while employed by the Commission unless authorized to do so by the Commission.
§ 144.5
Procedures when production or disclosure of Commission records or information relating to Commission business is sought.
(a) If in any proceeding oral testimony of an employee or former employee of the Commission is sought concerning matters related to the business of the Commission, an affidavit or, if that is not feasible, a signed statement by the party seeking the testimony or by his attorney, setting forth with particularity a summary of the testimony sought and its relevance to the proceeding, must be furnished to the Commission's General Counsel at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters. When authorization by the Commission is required, any authorization shall be limited to the scope of the demand as summarized in such statement.
(b) If a response to a demand by a court or other authority is required before instructions from the Commission are received, and Commission authorization is required, a Commission attorney shall be designated by the General Counsel to appear and to inform the court or other authority of these regulations and that the subpoena or demand has been referred for prompt consideration by the Commission. The Commission attorney shall request a stay of the demand pending receipt of instructions.
(c) In the event that the court or other authority declines to stay the effect of the demand pending receipt of instructions or in the event that the court rules that there must be compliance with the demand irrespective of instructions not to produce the material or disclose the information sought, the Commission employee or former employee upon whom the demand has been made shall respectfully decline to comply with the demand.
[50 FR 11149, Mar. 20, 1985, as amended at 89 FR 71816, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 144.6
Fees.
The provisions of § 145.8 of these regulations with respect to fees for production of documents pursuant to the FOIA are applicable to this part.
Pt. 145

# PART 145—COMMISSION RECORDS AND INFORMATION
Sec.
145.0
Definitions.
145.1
Information published in the Federal Register.
145.2
Records available for public inspection and copying; documents published and indexed.
145.3
[Reserved]
145.4
Public records available with identifying details deleted; nonpublic records available in abridged or summary form.
145.5
Disclosure of nonpublic records.
145.6
Commission offices to contact for assistance; registration records available.
145.7
Requests for Commission records and copies thereof.
145.8
Fees for records services.
145.9
Petition for confidential treatment of information submitted to the Commission.
Appendix A to Part 145—Compilation of Commission Records Available to the Public
Appendix B to Part 145—Schedule of Fees
Appendix C to Part 145 [Reserved]

# Authority:
Pub. L. 99-570, 100 Stat. 3207; Pub. L. 89-554, 80 Stat. 383; Pub. L. 90-23, 81 Stat. 54; Pub. L. 98-502, 88 Stat. 1561-1564 (5 U.S.C. 552); Sec. 101(a), Pub. L. 93-463, 88 Stat. 1389 (5 U.S.C. 4a(j)); Pub. L. 114-185, 130 Stat. 538; unless otherwise noted.
Section 145.5 is also issued under 5 U.S.C. 552, 5 U.S.C. 552b, and secs. 2(a)(11), 4b, 4f, 4g, 5a, 8a, and 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 2, 4a(j), 6b, 6f, 6g, 7a, 12a, and 21, as amended, 92 Stat. 865
et seq.;
secs. 2(a)(1), 4c(a)-(d), 4d, 4f, 4g, 4k, 4m, 4n, 8a, 15 and 17, Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 4, 6c(a)-(d), 6f, 6g, 6k, 6m, 6n, 12a, 19 and 21; 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552b); secs. 2(a)(11) and 8 of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 4(j) and 12 (1983); secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982); 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552b.
Section 145.6 is also issued under 7 U.S.C. 2, 4, 6, and 12; secs. 2(a)(1), 4c, 4d, 4e, 4f, 4k, 4m, 4n, 4p, 8, 8a and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2 and 4, 6c, 6d, 6e, 6f, 6k, 6m, 6n, 6p, 12, 12a and 23 (1982)); 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552b.
Section 145.8 is also issued under 7 U.S.C. 4a(j) and 16a as amended by Pub. L. 97-444, 96 Stat. 2294 (1983), and 5 U.S.C. 552, 552a and 552b.
§ 145.0
Definitions.
For the purposes of part 145 the following definitions are applicable:
(a)
FOIA Compliance Staff
—refers to the Freedom of Information Act compliance staff assigned to respond to requests for information under the Freedom of Information Act.
(b)
Public records
—in addition to the records described in § 145.1 (material published in the
Federal Register
) and in § 145.2 (records required to be made publicly available under the Freedom of Information Act), includes those records that have been determined by the Commission to be generally available to the public directly upon oral or written request from the Commission office or division responsible for the maintenance of such records. A compilation of Commission records routinely available to the public upon request appears in appendix A to this part 145.
(c)
Nonpublic records
—are records not identified in § 145.1, § 145.2, or appendix A of this part 145. Nonpublic records must be requested, in writing, in accordance with the provisions of § 145.7.
(d)
Record
—is any information or agency record maintained by the Commission in any format, including an electronic format. It includes any document, writing, photograph, sound or magnetic recording, videotape, microfiche, drawing, or computer-stored information or output in the possession of the Commission. The term “record” does not include personal convenience materials over which the Commission has no control, such as appointment calendars and handwritten notes, which may be retained or destroyed at an employee's discretion.
[82 FR 28003, June 20, 2017, as amended at 89 FR 71817, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 145.1
Information published in the Federal Register.
Except as provided in § 145.5, pertaining to nonpublic matters, the following materials shall be published in the
Federal Register
for the guidance of the public:
(a) Description of the Commission's central and field organization and the established place at which, the employees from whom, and the methods
whereby the public may obtain information, make submittals or requests, or obtain decisions;
(b) Statements of the general course and method by which the Commission's functions are channeled and determined, including the nature and requirements of all formal and informal procedures available;
(c) Rules of procedure, descriptions of forms available or the places at which forms may be obtained, and instructions as to the scope and contents of all papers, reports, or examinations;
(d) Substantive rules of general applicability adopted as authorized by law, and statements of general policy or interpretations of general applicability formulated and adopted by the Commission; and
(e) Each amendment, revision, or repeal of the foregoing.
[41 FR 16290, Apr. 16, 1976]
§ 145.2
Records available for public inspection and copying; documents published and indexed.
Except as provided in § 145.5, pertaining to nonpublic matters, and in addition to those documents listed in appendix A to part 145, Compilation of Commission Records Available to the Public, the following materials are available for public inspection and copying during normal business hours at the Commission's Public Reading Room, located at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters and at the regional offices of the Commission:
(a) A guide for requesting records or publicly available information from the Commission which includes:
(1) An index of all publicly available information of the Commission;
(2) A description of major information and record locator systems;
(3) Guidance for obtaining various types and categories of public information from the Commission;
(b) Final opinions and orders of the Commission in the adjudication of cases, including concurring and dissenting opinions;
(c) Statements of policy and interpretations which have been adopted by the Commission and are not published in the
Federal Register
;
(d) Records released in response to FOIA requests that have been, or the Commission anticipates will be, the subject of additional FOIA requests;
(e) Administrative manuals and instructions that affect the public; and
(f) Indices providing identifying information to the public as to the materials made available pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
[62 FR 17069, Apr. 9, 1997, as amended at 89 FR 71817, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 145.3
[Reserved]
§ 145.4
Public records available with identifying details deleted; nonpublic records available in abridged or summary form.
(a) To the extent required to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, the Commission may delete identifying details when it makes available “public records” as defined in § 145.0(b). In such instances, the Commission shall explain the justification for the deletion fully in writing.
(b) Certain “nonpublic records,” as defined in § 145.0(c), may, as authorized by the Commission, be made available for public inspection and copying in an abridged or summary form, with identifying details deleted.
[51 FR 26869, July 28, 1986, as amended at 82 FR 28003, June 20, 2017]
§ 145.5
Disclosure of nonpublic records.
The Commission shall withhold information in “nonpublic records,” as defined in § 145.0(c), only if the Commission reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption described in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section, or if disclosure is prohibited by law. The Commission shall consider whether partial disclosure of information is possible whenever the Commission determines that a full disclosure of the requested record is not possible. The Commission shall take reasonable steps necessary to segregate and release nonexempt information in “nonpublic records” subject to a request under § 145.7 if those portions do not fall within an exemption described in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section.
(a)(1) Specifically authorized under criteria established by an executive
order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy, and (2) are in fact properly classified pursuant to such executive order;
(b) Related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Commission or any other agency of the Government of the United States, including operation rules, guidelines, and manuals of procedure for investigators, auditors, and other employees (other than those rules and practices which establish legal requirements to which members of the public are expected to conform);
(c) Specifically exempted from disclosure by statute, including:
(1) Data and information which would separately disclose the business transactions or market positions of any person and trade secrets or names of customers; and
(2) Any data or information concerning or obtained in connection with any pending investigation of any person;
(d) Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential, including, but not limited to:
(1)(i) Reports of stocks of grain, such as Forms 38, 38C, 38M and 38T required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 1.44;
(ii) Statements of reporting traders on Form 40 required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 18.04;
(iii) Statements concerning special calls on positions required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR part 21;
(iv) Statements concerning identification of special accounts on Form 102 required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 17.01;
(v) Reports required to be filed pursuant to parts 15 through 21 of this chapter;
(vi) Reports concerning option positions of large traders required to be filed pursuant to part 16 of this chapter;
(vii) Form 188; and
(viii) The following reports and statements that are also set forth in paragraph (h) of this section, except as specified in 17 CFR 1.10(g)(2) or 17 CFR 31.13(m): Forms 1-FR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 1.10; FOCUS reports that are filed in lieu of Forms 1-FR pursuant to 17 CFR 1.10(h); Forms 2-FR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 31.13; the accountant's report on material inadequacies filed in accordance with 17 CFR 1.16(c)(5); all reports and statements required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 1.17(c)(6); and
(A)(
1
) The following portions of Form CPO-PQR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 4.27: Schedule A: Question 2, subparts (b) and (d); Question 3, subparts (g) and (h); Question 9; Question 10, subparts (b), (c), (d), (e), and (g); Question 11; Question 12; and Schedules B and C;
(
2
) The following portions of Form CTA-PR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 4.27: Question 2, subparts (c) and (d);
(2) Information contained in reports, summaries, analyses, transcripts, letters or memoranda arising out of, in anticipation of or in connection with an examination or inspection of the books and records of any person or any other formal or informal inquiry or investigation; and
(3) Information for which confidential treatment has been requested and granted in accordance with § 145.9;
(e) Inter-agency or intra-agency memoranda or letters, except those which by law would routinely be made available to a party other than an agency in litigation with the Commission. Exemption 5 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(5)) protects inter-agency or intra-agency communications that are protected by legal privileges, such as the attorney-client privilege, the attorney work-product privilege, and the deliberative process privilege. The deliberative process privilege shall not apply to records created 25 years or more before the date on which the records were requested.
(f) Personnel files, medical files and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, including but not limited to, information of that character contained in:
(1) Files concerning employees of the Commission;
(2) Files concerning persons subject to regulation by the Commission, including files with respect to applications for registration and biographical
supplements submitted with such applications. Examples of the information on the applications and biographical supplements which may be protected are an individual's home address and telephone number, social security number, date and place of birth, fingerprints and, in appropriate cases, the information concerning prior arrests, indictments, criminal convictions or other judgments or sanctions imposed by State or Federal courts or regulatory authorities;
(3) Files concerning information for which confidential treatment has been requested and granted in accordance with § 145.9;
(g) Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes to the extent that the production of such records or information:
(1) Could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement activities undertaken or likely to be undertaken by the Commission or any other authority including, but not limited to, the Department of Justice or any United States Attorney or any Federal, State, local, or foreign governmental authority or any futures or securities industry self-regulatory organization;
(2) Would deprive a person of a right to a fair trail or an impartial adjudication;
(3) Could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(4) Could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of a confidential source including a State, local or foreign agency or authority or any private institution which furnished information on a confidential basis and, in the case of a record or information compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, information furnished by a confidential source;
(5) Would disclose techniques or procedures or would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law; or
(6) Could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual.
(h) Contained in or related to examinations, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of the Commission or any other agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not limited to the following reports and statements that are also set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(viii) of this section, except as specified in 17 CFR 1.10(g)(2) and 17 CFR 31.13(m): Forms 1-FR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 1.10; FOCUS reports that are filed in lieu of Forms 1-FR pursuant to 17 CFR 1.10(h); Forms 2-FR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 31.13; the accountant's report on material inadequacies filed in accordance with 17 CFR 1.16(c)(5); all reports and statements required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 1.17(c)(6); and
(1) The following portions of Form CPO-PQR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 4.27: Schedule A: Question 2, subparts (b) and (d); Question 3, subparts (g) and (h); Question 9; Question 10, subparts (b), (c), (d), (e), and (g); Question 11; Question 12; and Question 13; and Schedules B and C;
(2) The following portions of Form CTA-PR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 4.27: Question 2, subparts (c) and (d); and
(i) Geological and geophysical information and data, including maps, concerning wells.
(5 U.S.C. 552, 5 U.S.C. 552b, and secs. 2(a)(11), 4b, 4f, 4g, 5a, 8a, and 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 2, 4a(j), 6b, 6f, 6g, 7a, 12a, and 21, as amended, 92 Stat. 865
et seq.;
secs. 2(a)(1), 4c(a)-(d), 4d, 4f, 4g, 4k, 4m, 4n, 8a, 15 and 17, Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 4, 6c(a)-(d), 6f, 6g, 6k, 6m, 6n, 12a, 19 and 21; 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552b); secs. 2(a)(11) and 8 of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 4(j) and 12 (1983); secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982); 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552b)
[41 FR 16290, Apr. 16, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 13458, Mar. 12, 1979; 45 FR 2023, Jan. 10, 1980; 46 FR 24943, May 4, 1981; 46 FR 54534, Nov. 3, 1981; 48 FR 35303, Aug. 3, 1983; 49 FR 4464, Feb. 7, 1984; 49 FR 5541, Feb. 13, 1984; 51 FR 26870, July 28, 1986; 53 FR 4613, Feb. 17, 1988; 54 FR 41084, Oct. 5, 1989; 62 FR 4642, Jan. 31, 1997; 64 FR 25, Jan. 4, 1999; 71 FR 5595, Feb. 2, 2006; 75 FR 55449, Sept. 10, 2010; 77 FR 11342, Feb. 24, 2012; 82 FR 28003, June 20, 2017]
§ 145.6
Commission offices to contact for assistance; registration records available.
(a) All requests for non-public records shall be made in writing and shall be addressed or otherwise directed to the Office of the General Counsel at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters, Attn: FOIA Request, or electronically via
foiasubmissions@cftc.gov
. Requests for public records directed to a regional office of the Commission pursuant to § 145.2 should be sent to the Eastern Regional Office, Central Regional Office, or Southwestern Regional Office, as applicable.
(b)(1) The publicly available portions of Form 7-R (application for registration as a futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator or leverage transaction merchant), Form 8-R (application for registration as an associated person, floor broker, floor trader and biographical supplement to application on Form 7-R), Form 3-R (changes and corrections; multiple associations) Form 8-S (certificate of special registration), Form 8-T (notice of termination), Form 7-W (withdrawal from firm registration) and Form 8-W (withdrawal from floor broker or floor trader registration) will be available for public inspection and copying. Such registration forms will be available in the offices of the National Futures Association, 300 S Riverside Plaza, Suite 1800, Chicago, IL 60606. Telephone: (312) 781-1300.
(2) The fingerprint card and any supplementary attachments filed in response to:
(i) Items 6-9, 14-21, the “Personal Information,” or the “Disciplinary Information” sections on Form 8-R;
(ii) Item 3 on Form 8-S;
(iii) Items 3-5, 9-11, the “Withdrawal Reasons,” the “Disciplinary Information,” or the “Matter Information” sections on Form 8-T;
(iv) Items 9-10 on Form 7-R;
(v) Item 7 and the “Additional Customer Information” section on Form 7-W; and
(vi) Item 7 on Form 8-W generally will not be available for public inspection and copying unless such disclosure is required under the Freedom of Information Act. Changes or corrections to those items reported on Form 3-R will be treated similarly. When such fingerprint cards or supplementary attachments are on file, the FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts compliance staff will decide any request for access in accordance with the procedures set forth in §§ 145.7 and 145.9.
(7 U.S.C. 2, 4, 6, and 12; secs. 2(a)(1), 4c, 4d, 4e, 4f, 4k, 4m, 4n, 4p, 8, 8a and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2 and 4, 6c, 6d, 6e, 6f, 6k, 6m, 6n, 6p, 12, 12a and 23 (1982)); 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552b)
[49 FR 39534, Oct. 9, 1984, and 51 FR 26870, July 28, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 8435, Mar. 15, 1988; 54 FR 19886, May 9, 1989; 57 FR 29203, July 1, 1992; 58 FR 19597, Apr. 15, 1993; 60 FR 49335, Sept. 25, 1995; 64 FR 26, Jan. 4, 1999; 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 67 FR 63539, Oct. 15, 2002; 69 FR 41426, July 9, 2004; 72 FR 16269, Apr. 4, 2007; 82 FR 28003, June 20, 2017; 89 FR 71817, 71818, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 145.7
Requests for Commission records and copies thereof.
Requests for Commission records and copies thereof shall specify the preferred form or format (including electronic formats) of the response. The Commission will accommodate requesters as to form or format if the record is readily available in that form or format. When requesters do not specify the form or format of the response, the Commission will respond in the form or format in which the document is most accessible to the Commission.
(a)
Public inquiries and inspection of public records.
Information concerning the nature and extent of available public records may be obtained in person, by telephone, via Internet (
http://www.cftc.gov
), or by writing to the Commission offices designated in §§ 145.2 and 145.6.
(b)
Requests for nonpublic records.
Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section with respect to public records, all requests for records maintained by the Commission shall be in writing, shall be addressed to the Office of the General Counsel of the Commission and shall be clearly marked “Freedom of Information Act Request.”
(c)
Misdirected written requests.
The Commission cannot ensure that a timely or satisfactory response will be
given to requests for records that are directed to the Commission other than in the manner prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. Any misdirected written request for nonpublic records should be promptly forwarded to the Office of the General Counsel of the Commission. Misdirected requests for nonpublic records will be considered to have been received for purposes of this section only when they actually have been received by the Office of the General Counsel.
(d)
Description of requested records.
Each written request for Commission records made under paragraph (b) of this section shall reasonably describe the records sought with sufficient specificity to permit the records to be located among the records maintained by or for the Commission. The Commission staff may communicate with the requester (by telephone when practicable) in an effort to reduce the administrative burden of processing a broad request and to minimize fees for copying and search services.
(e)
Description of requester and intended use of requested records.
In each request for records, requesters shall reasonable identify themselves as a commercial user, educational institution, noncommercial scientific institution, or representative of the news media if one of these categories is applicable. The requester shall describe the use to which the records will be put.
(f)
Request for existing records.
The Commission's response to a request for nonpublic records will encompass all nonpublic records identifiable as responsive to the request that are in existence on the date that the written request is received by the Office of the General Counsel. The Commission need not create a new record in response to a FOIA request.
(g)
Fee agreement.
A request for copies of records pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section must indicate the requester's agreement to pay all fees that are associated with the processing of the request, in accordance with the rates set forth in appendix B to this part, or the requester's intention to limit the fees incurred to a stated amount. If the requester states a fee limitation, no work will be done that will result in fees beyond the stated amount. A requester who seeks a waiver or reduction of fees pursuant to paragraph (b) of appendix B of this part must show that such a waiver or reduction would be in the public interest. If the Office of the General Counsel receives a request for records under paragraph (b) of this section from a requester who has not paid fees from a previous request in accordance with appendix B of this part, the staff will decline to process the request until such fees have been paid.
(h)
Initial determination, denials.
(1) With respect to any request for nonpublic records as defined in § 145.0(c), the FOIA compliance staff of the Commission will forward the request to the Commission divisions or offices likely to maintain records that are responsive to the request. If a responsive record is located, the FOIA compliance staff will, in consultation with the Commission office in which the record was located, determine whether to comply with such request. The FOIA compliance staff may, in their discretion, determine whether to comply with any portion of a request for nonpublic records before considering the remainder of the request. The FOIA compliance staff will inform the requester of the availability of the Commission's FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.
(2) Where it is determined to deny, in whole or in part, a request for nonpublic records, the FOIA compliance staff will notify the requester of the denial, citing applicable exemptions of the Freedom of Information Act or other provisions of law that require or allow the records to be withheld. The FOIA compliance staff's response to the FOIA request should describe in general terms what categories of documents are being withheld under which applicable FOIA exemption or exemptions. The FOIA compliance staff's response will include a statement notifying the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Commission's FOIA Public Liaison and the National Archives and Records Administration's Office of Government Information Services. The FOIA compliance staff, in denying an initial request for records, is not required to
provide the requester with an inventory of those documents determined to be exempt from disclosure.
(3) The FOIA compliance staff will issue an initial determination with respect to a FOIA request within twenty business days after receipt by the Office of the General Counsel. In unusual circumstances, as defined in this paragraph, the prescribed time limit may be extended by written notice to the person making a request for a record or a copy. The notice shall set forth the reasons for the extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be dispatched. Where the extension exceeds ten business days, the FOIA compliance staff will provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative time period for processing the original or modified request. The FOIA compliance staff or the FOIA Public Liaison is available to assist the requester in unusual circumstances. The FOIA compliance staff will notify the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services. As used in this paragraph, “unusual circumstances” means, but only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of a particular request:
(i) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request;
(ii) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request;
(iii) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components in the Commission having substantial subject matter interest therein;
(iv) The need to coordinate a response with several Commission offices;
(v) The need to obtain records currently being used by members of the Commission, the Commission staff, or the public;
(vi) The need to respond to a large number of previously-filed FOIA requests.
(i)
Administrative review.
(1) Any person who has been notified pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section that his request for records has been denied in whole or in part may file an application for review as set forth below.
(2) An application for review must be received by the Office of General the Counsel within 90 days of the date of the denial by the FOIA compliance staff. This 90-day period shall not begin to run until the FOIA compliance staff has issued an initial determination with respect to all portions of the request for nonpublic records. An application for review shall be in writing and shall be marked “Freedom of Information Act Appeal” and be sent to the Commission's Office of the General Counsel. If the appeal involves information as to which the FOIA requester has received a detailed written justification of a request for confidential treatment pursuant to § 145.9(e), the requester must also serve a copy of the appeal on the submitter of the information.
(3) The applicant must attach to the application for review a copy of all correspondence relevant to the request,
i.e.,
the initial request, any correspondence amending or modifying the request, and all correspondence from the staff responding to the request.
(4) The application for review shall state such facts and cite such legal or other authorities as the applicant may consider appropriate. The application may, in addition, include a description of the general benefit to the public from disclosure of that information.
(5) If the appeal involves information that is subject to a petition for confidential treatment filed under § 145.9, the submitter of the information shall have an opportunity to respond in writing to the appeal within 10 business days of the date of filing the appeal. Any response shall be sent to the Commission's Office of the General Counsel. Copies shall be sent to the person requesting the information.
(6) The General Counsel, or his or her designee, shall have the authority to consider all appeals under this section from initial determinations of the
FOIA compliance staff of the Commission. The General Counsel, or his or her designee, may:
(i) Determine either to affirm or to reverse the initial determination in whole or in part;
(ii) Determine to disclose a record, even if exempt, if good cause for doing so either is shown by the application or otherwise appears;
(iii) Remand the matter to the FOIA compliance staff—
(A) To correct a deficiency in the initial processing of the request, or
(B) When an investigation as to which the staff originally claimed exemption from mandatory disclosure on the basis of 5 U.S.C. 555(b)(7)(A) or 7 U.S.C. 12(a) is subsequently closed; or
(iv) Refer the matter to the Commission for a decision.
(7) If the initial denial of the request for nonpublic records is reversed, the Office of the General Counsel shall, in writing, advise the requester that the records will be available on or after a specified date. If, on appeal, the denial of access to a record is affirmed in whole or in part, the person who requested the information shall be notified in writing of:
(i) The reasons for the denial,
(ii) The mediation services offered by the Office of Government Information Services as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation, and
(iii) The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4) providing for judicial review of a determination to withhold records.
(j)
Expedited processing.
A request may be given expedited processing if the requester demonstrates a compelling need for the requested records. For purposes of this provision, the term “compelling need” means: That a failure to obtain requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or with respect to a request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged federal government activity. A requester who seeks expedited processing must demonstrate a compelling need by submitting a statement that is certified by the requester to be true and correct to the best of that person's knowledge and belief. The FOIA compliance staffwill determine whether to provide expedited processing, and notice of the determination will be provided to requester, within ten days after the date of the request. If the request for expedited processing is denied, the requester may file an appeal with the Office of the General Counsel within ten days of the date of the denial by the FOIA compliance staff. The Office of the General Counsel will respond to the appeal within ten days after the date of the appeal.
[51 FR 26870, July 28, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 19307, May 22, 1987; 62 FR 17069, Apr. 9, 1997; 69 FR 67507, Nov. 18, 2004; 82 FR 28003, June 20, 2017; 89 FR 71817, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 145.8
Fees for records services.
A schedule of fees for record services, including locating, and making records available, and copying, appears in appendix B to this part. Copies of the schedule of fees may also be obtained upon request made in person, by telephone or by mail from the FOIA compliance staff or at any regional office of the Commission.
[82 FR 28005, June 20, 2017, as amended at 89 FR 71817, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 145.9
Petition for confidential treatment of information submitted to the Commission.
(a)
Purpose.
This section provides a procedure by which persons submitting information in any form to the Commission can request that the information not be disclosed pursuant to a request under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. This section does not affect the Commission's right, authority, or obligation to disclose information in any other context.
(b)
Scope.
The provisions of this section shall apply only where the Commission has not specified that an alternative procedure be utilized in connection with a particular study, report, investigation, or other matter. See 40.8 for procedures to be utilized in connection with filing information required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR parts 40 and 41.
(c)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this section:
(1)
Submitter.
A “submitter” is any person who submits any information or
material to the Commission or who permits any information or material to be submitted to the Commission. For purposes of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section only, “submitter” includes any person whose information has been submitted to a designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, swap execution facility, swap data repository or registered futures association that in turn has submitted the information to the Commission.
(2)
FOIA requester.
A “FOIA requester” is any person who files with the Commission a request to inspect or copy Commission records or documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552.
(d)
Written request for confidential treatment.
(1) Any submitter may request in writing that the Commission afford confidential treatment under the Freedom of Information Act to any information that he or she submits to the Commission. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, no oral requests for confidential treatment will be accepted by the Commission. The submitter shall specify the grounds on which confidential treatment is being requested but need not provide a detailed written justification of the request unless required to do so under paragraph (e) of this section. Confidential treatment may be requested only on the grounds that disclosure:
(i) Is specifically exempted by a statute that either requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such manner as to leave no discretion on the issue or establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld.
(ii) Would reveal the submitter's trade secrets or confidential commercial or financial information.
(iii) Would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of the submitter's personal privacy.
(iv) Would reveal investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes whose disclosure would deprive the submitter of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication.
(v) Would reveal investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes whose disclosure would constitute an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of the submitter.
(vi) Would reveal investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes when disclosure would interfere with enforcement proceedings or disclose investigative techniques and procedures,
provided,
that the claim may be made only by a designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, swap execution facility, swap data repository or registered futures association with regard to its own investigatory records.
(2) The original of any written request for confidential treatment must be sent to the Office of the General Counsel at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters, Attn: FOIA compliance staff. A copy of any request for confidential treatment shall be sent to the Commission division or office receiving the original of any material for which confidential treatment is being sought.
(3) A request for confidential treatment shall be clearly marked “FOIA Confidential Treatment Request” and shall contain the name, address, and telephone number of the submitter. The submitter is responsible for informing the FOIA compliance staff of any changes in his or her name, address, and telephone number.
(4) A request for confidential treatment should accompany the material for which confidential treatment is being sought. If a request for confidential treatment is filed after the filing of such material, the submitter shall have the burden of showing that it was not possible to request confidential treatment for that material at the time the material was filed. A request for confidential treatment of a future submission will not be processed. All records which contain information for which a request for confidential treatment is made or the appropriate segregable portions thereof should be marked by the person submitting the records with a prominent stamp, typed legend, or other suitable form of notice on each page or segregable portion of each page stating “Confidential Treatment Requested by [name].” If such marking is impractical under the circumstances, a cover sheet prominently
marked “Confidential Treatment Requested by [name]” should be securely attached to each group of records submitted for which confidential treatment is requested. Each of the records transmitted in this matter should be individually marked with an identifying number and code so that they are separately identifiable. In some circumstances, such as when a person is testifying in the course of a Commission investigation or providing documents requested in the course of a Commission inspection, it may be impractical to submit a written request for confidential treatment at the time the information is first provided to the Commission. In no circumstances can the need to comply with the requirements of this section justify or excuse any delay in submitting information to the Commission. Rather, in such circumstances, the person testifying or otherwise submitting information should inform the Commission employee receiving the information, at the time the information is submitted or as soon thereafter as practicable, that the person is requesting confidential treatment for the information. The person shall then submit a written request for confidential treatment within 30 days of the submission of the information. If access is requested under the Freedom of Information Act with respect to material for which no timely request for confidential treatment has been made, it may be presumed that the submitter of the information has waived any interest in asserting that the material is confidential.
(5) A request for confidential treatment shall state the length of time for which confidential treatment is being sought.
(6) A request for confidential treatment (as distinguishing from the material that is the subject of the request) shall be considered a public document. When a submitter deems it necessary to include, in its request for confidential treatment, information for which it seeks confidential treatment, the submitter shall place that information in an appendix to the request.
(7) On 10 business days notice from the FOIA compliance staff, a submitter shall submit a detailed written justification of a request for confidential treatment, as specified in paragraph (e) of this section. Upon request and for good cause shown, the FOIA compliance staff may grant an extension of such time. The FOIA compliance staff will notify the submitter that failure to provide timely a detailed written justification will be deemed a waiver of the submitter's opportunity to appeal an adverse determination.
(8)(i) Requests for confidential treatment for any reasonably segregable material that is not exempt from public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, as implemented in § 145.5, shall be summarily rejected under § 145.9(d)(9). Requests for confidential treatment of public information contained in financial reports as specified in § 1.10 shall not be processed. A submitter has the burden of specifying clearly and precisely the material that is the subject of the confidential treatment request. A submitter may be able to meet this burden in various ways, including:
(A) Segregating material for which confidential treatment is being sought;
(B) Submitting two copies of the submission: a copy from which material for which confidential treatment is being sought has been obliterated, deleted, or clearly marked and an unmarked copy; and
(C) Clearly describing the material within a submission for which confidential treatment is being sought.
(ii) A submitter shall not employ a method of specifying the material for which confidential treatment is being sought if that method makes it unduly difficult for the Commission to read the full submission, including all portion claimed to be confidential, in its entirely.
(9) If a submitter fails to follow the procedures set forth in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(8) of this section, the FOIA compliance staff may summarily reject the submitter's request for confidential treatment with leave to the submitter to refile a proper petition. Failure of the FOIA compliance staff summarily to reject a confidential treatment request pursuant to this paragraph shall not be construed to indicate that the submitter has complied
with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(8) of this section.
(10) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(9) of this section, no determination with respect to any request for confidential treatment will be made until the Commission receives a Freedom of Information Act request for the material for which confidential treatment is being sought.
(e)
Detailed written justification of request for confidential treatment.
(1) If the FOIA compliance staff determines that a FOIA request seeks material for which confidential treatment has been requested pursuant to § 145.9, the FOIA compliance staff shall require the submitter to file a detailed written justification of the confidential request within ten business days (unless under § 145.9(d)(7) an extension of time has been granted) of that determination unless, pursuant to an earlier FOIA request, a prior determination to release or withhold the material has been made, the submitter has already provided sufficient information to grant the request for confidential treatment; or the material is otherwise in the public domain. The detailed written justification shall be filed with the FOIA compliance staff. It shall be clearly marked “Detailed Written Justification of FOIA Confidential Treatment Request” and shall contain the request number supplied by the Commission. The submitter shall also send a copy of the detailed written justification to the FOIA requester at the address specified by the Commission.
(2) The period for filing a detailed written justification may be extended upon request and for good cause shown.
(3) The detailed written justification of the confidential treatment request shall contain:
(i) The reasons, referring to the specific exemptive provisions of the Freedom of Information Act listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, why the information that is the subject of the FOIA request should be withheld from access under the Freedom of Information Act;
(ii) The applicability of any specific statutory or regulatory provisions that govern or may govern the treatment of the information;
(iii) The existence and applicability of prior determinations by the Commission, other federal agencies, or courts concerning the specific exemptive provisions of the Freedom of Information Act pursuant to which confidential treatment is being requested. Submitters shall satisfy any evidentiary burdens imposed upon them by applicable Freedom of Information Act case law.
(iv) Such additional facts and authorities as the submitter may consider appropriate.
(4) The detailed written justification of a confidential treatment request shall be accompanied by affidavits to the extent necessary to establish the facts necessary to satisfy the submitter's evidentiary burden.
(5) The detailed written justification of a confidential treatment request (as distinguished from the material that is the subject of the request) shall be considered a public document. However, a submitter will be permitted to submit to the Commission supplementary confidential affidavits with his or her detailed written justification if that is the only way in which he or she can convincingly demonstrate that the material that is the subject of the confidential treatment request should not be disclosed to the FOIA requester.
(f)
Initial determination with respect to petition for confidential treatment.
(1) The FOIA compliance staff, in consultation with the Office in which the record was located, shall issue an initial determination with respect to a confidential treatment request for material that is responsive to the FOIA request. This determination shall be issued at the same time as the initial determination with respect to the FOIA request.
See
§ 145.7(g). To the extent that the initial determination grants a confidential treatment request in full or in part, it should specify the FOIA exemptions upon which this determination is based and briefly describe the material to which each exemption applies.
See
§ 145.7(g)(2). To the extent that the initial determination denies confidential treatment to any material for which confidential treatment was requested, it should briefly describe the material for which confidential treatment is denied.
(2) If the FOIA compliance staff determines that a confidential treatment request shall be denied in full or in part, the submitter shall be informed of his or her right to appeal to the Commission's General Counsel in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (g) of this section. The material for which confidential treatment was denied shall be released to the FOIA requester if the submitter does not file an appeal within 10 business days of the date on which his or her request was denied.
(3) If the FOIA compliance staff determines that a confidential treatment request shall be granted in full or in part, the FOIA requester shall be informed of his or her right to appeal to the Commission's General Counsel in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 145.7(h).
(g)
Appeal from initial determination that confidential treatment is not warranted.
(1) An appeal from an initial determination to deny a confidential treatment request in full or in part shall be filed with the General Counsel of the Commission. No disclosure of the material that is the subject of the appeal shall be made until the appeal is resolved. If both a submitter and a FOIA requester appeal to the General Counsel from a partial grant and partial denial of a confidential treatment request, those appeals shall be consolidated.
(2) Any appeal of a denial of a request for confidential treatment shall be in writing, and shall be clearly marked “FOIA Confidential Treatment Appeal.” The appeal shall include a copy of the initial determination and shall clearly indicate the portions of the initial determination from which an appeal is being taken.
(3) The appeal shall be sent to the Commission's Office of the General Counsel. A copy of the appeal shall be sent to the FOIA requester. The General Counsel or his or her designee shall have the authority to consider all appeals from initial determinations of the FOIA compliance staff. The General Counsel may, in his sole and unfettered discretion, refer such appeals and questions concerning stays under paragraph (g)(10) of this section to the Commission for decision.
(4) In the appeal, the submitter may supply additional substantiation for his or her request for confidential treatment, including additional affidavits and additional legal argument. Such submissions shall be governed by paragraph (e)(5) of this section.
(5) The FOIA requester shall have an opportunity to respond in writing to the appeal within 10 business days of the date of filing of the FOIA Confidential Treatment Appeal. The FOIA requester need not respond, however. Any response shall be sent to the Commission's Office of the General Counsel. A copy shall be sent to the submitter.
(6) All FOIA Confidential Treatment Appeals and all responses thereto shall be considered public documents.
(7) The General Counsel will make a determination with respect to any appeal within twenty business days after receipt by the Office of the General Counsel of such appeal or within such extended period as may be permitted in accordance with the standards set forth in § 145.7(g)(3). Although other procedures may be employed, to the extent possible the General Counsel will decide the appeal on the basis of the affidavits and other documentary evidence submitted by the submitter and the FOIA requests.
(8) The General Counsel or his or her designee shall have the authority to remand any matter to the FOIA compliance staff to correct deficiencies in the initial processing of the confidential treatment request.
(9) If the General Counsel or his or her designee denies a confidential treatment appeal in full or in part, the information for which confidential treatment is denied shall be disclosed to the FOIA requester 10 business days later, subject to any stay entered pursuant to paragraph (g)(10) of this section.
(10) The General Counsel or their designee shall have the authority to enter and vacate stays as set forth below. If, within 10 business days of the date of issuance of a determination by the General Counsel or their designee to disclose information for which a submitter sought confidential treatment, the submitter commences an action in
federal court concerning that determination, the General Counsel will stay the public disclosure of the information pending final judicial resolution of the matter. The General Counsel or their designee may vacate a stay entered under this section, either on his or her own motion or at the request of the FOIA requester. If such a stay is vacated, the information will be released to the requester 10 business days after the submitter is notified of this action, unless a court orders otherwise.
(h)
Extensions of time limits.
Any time limit under this section may be extended for good cause shown, in the discretion of the Commission, the Commission's General Counsel, or the FOIA compliance staff.
(i) A submitter whose confidential treatment request has been upheld by the Commission shall, upon request of the General Counsel, aid the Commission in defending a court action to compel the Commission to disclose the information subject to the confidential treatment request. If the submitter is unwilling to aid the Commission in this regard, the General Counsel may, in appropriate cases, make the information available to the public.
[51 FR 26871, July 28, 1986, as amended at 64 FR 26, Jan. 4, 1999; 69 FR 67507, Nov. 18, 2004; 74 FR 17395, Apr. 15, 2009; 77 FR 66348, Nov. 2, 2012; 89 FR 71817, Sept. 4, 2024]
Pt. 145, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 145—Compilation of Commission Records Available to the Public
The following documents are available, upon request, directly from the office indicated. Unless otherwise noted, the mailing address for the Commission offices listed below is the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(a)
Office of Public Affairs.
(1) Commitments of Traders Reports.
(2) Weekly Advisory (solely available on the Commission's Web site at
http://www.cftc.gov/cftc/cftcpressoffice.htm).
(3) Studies Prepared by Commission staff.
(4) Educational material (e.g., newsletters, brochures, annual reports, conference or advisory meetings, technical information about specific markets or contracts).
(5) Press releases.
(6) Rule enforcement and financial reviews (public version).
(7) CFTC litigation documents (e.g., administrative and civil complaints, injunctions, initial decisions, opinions and orders).
(8) Commission rules and regulations,
Federal Register
notices, interpretative letters.
(9) Speeches, Commissioner biographies and photographs.
(10) Statistical data concerning the Commission's budget.
(11) Statistical data concerning specific contracts and markets.
(b)
Office of the Secretariat (Public reading area with copying facilities available).
(1) Comment letters and CFTC summaries of comment letters.
(2) Terms and conditions of proposed contracts.
(3) Registered entity filings relating to rules as defined in § 40.1 of this chapter, unless covered by a request for confidential treatment.
(4) National Futures Association (NFA) rule amendments.
(5) Exchange and NFA disciplinary action notifications.
(6) Open Commission meeting minutes.
(7) Sunshine certificates for closed Commission meetings.
(8) CFTC Advisory Committee final reports.
(9) Opinions and orders of the Commission.
(10) Reparations orders and enforcement orders index.
(11) Rulemaking index.
(12) Exchange membership notification.
(13) Publicly available portions of applications to become a registered entity including the transmittal letter, first page of the application cover sheet, proposed rules, proposed bylaws, corporate documents, any overview or similar summary provided by the applicant, any documents pertaining to the applicant's legal status and governance structure, including governance fitness information, and any other part of the application not covered by a request for confidential treatment.
(c)
Office of Proceedings.
(1) Documents contained in reparations and enforcement cases, unless subject to protective order.
(2) Complaint packages, which contain the Reparation Rules, Brochure “Questions and Answers About How You Can Resolve a Commodity-Market Related Dispute,” and the complaint form.
(3) Rules of Practice concerning administrative enforcement proceedings.
(d)
Chief Administrative Officer, Division of Administration.
Information Collection requests submitted to the Office of Management and Budget relating to requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-511.
(e)
Division of Market Oversight.
(1) Weekly stocks of grain reports.
(2) Weekly cotton or call reports.
(f)
Division of Enforcement.
Complaint package containing Division of Enforcement
Questionnaire and list of federal, state and local enforcement authorities.
(g)
Market Participants Division.
Publicly available portions of registration documents are available from the National Futures Association, 300 S Riverside Plaza, Suite 1800, Chicago, IL 60606. See Commission Rule 145.6.
[51 FR 26874, July 28, 1986, as amended at 57 FR 29203, July 1, 1992; 59 FR 5528, Feb. 7, 1994; 60 FR 49335, Sept. 25, 1995; 64 FR 27, Jan. 4, 1999; 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 67 FR 63539, Oct. 15, 2002; 69 FR 67507, Nov. 18, 2004; 77 FR 66348, Nov. 2, 2012; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 89 FR 71817, Sept. 4, 2024]
Pt. 145, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 145—Schedule of Fees
(a)
Charges for requests.
The following charges may be made where applicable for responding to requests for records.
(1) $4.75 for each quarter hour spent by clerical personnel in searching for or reviewing records.
(2) When a search or review cannot be performed by clerical personnel, $10.25 for each quarter hour spent by professional personnel in searching or reviewing records.
(3) When searches require the expertise of a computer specialist, staff time for programming and performing searches will be charged at $10.25 per quarter hour. For searches of records stored on personal computers used as workstations by Commission staff and shared access network servers, the computer processing time is included in the search time for the staff member using the workstation as set forth in paragraph (a) of this appendix.
(4) Document duplication, including computer printouts, will be charged at $0.15 per page.
(5) For copies of materials other than paper records, the requester will be charged the actual cost of materials and reproduction, including the time of clerical personnel at a rate of $4.75 per quarter hour.
(6) When a request has been made and granted to examine Commission records at an office of the Commission other than the office in which the records are routinely maintained, the requester:
(i) Will reimburse the Commission for the actual cost of transporting the records; and
(ii) Will be charged at a rate of $4.75 for each quarter hour spent by clerical personnel in preparing the records for transit.
(7) For certifying that requested records are true copies, the charge will be $3.00 per certification.
(8) Upon request, records will be mailed by means of overnight or express mail at the fee of $10.00 per package mailed.
(b)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
Fees will be waived or reduced by the Commission if:
(1) The fee is less than or equal to $10.00, the approximate cost to the Commission of collecting the fee; or,
(2) If the Commission determines that the disclosure of the information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(c)
Applicability of fees.
Fees shall be charged even if no records are ultimately furnished to the requester. Fees apply to various types of requests as follows.
(1)
Commercial use request.
Fees for search time, review time and duplication of records will be charged to requests from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a user or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made.
(2)
Educational institution or noncommercial scientific institution.
Only duplication fees will be charged to schools or to organizations which operate solely for the purpose of scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. No charge will be made for the first 100 pages duplicated or for search or review time.
(3)
Representative of the news media.
Only duplication fees will be charged to any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. No charge will be made for the first 100 pages duplicated or for search or review time.
(4)
Other requesters.
Fees for search time and duplication will be charged to requesters who are not covered by one of the categories above. No charge will be made for the first two hours of search time, the first 100 pages of duplication, or for review time. If the search is for records stored in a computer format, a combination of computer operation charges and search time charges will be waived up to the equivalent of two hours of professional search time.
(d)
Aggregation of requests.
For purposes of determining fees, the Commission may aggregate reasonably related requests if multiple requests are made within a 30-day period or if there is a solid basis for believing that multiple requests were made solely to avoid fees.
(e)
Notification of fees.
A request for Commission records may state that the party is willing to pay fees up to a stated limit for services to be provided in searching, reviewing and duplicating requested records. If such a statement is made, no work will be done that will result in fees beyond the stated limit without written authorization. If no limit is stated, no work will be done that will result in fees in excess of $25.00 without written authorization from the requester.
(f)
Advance payment of fees.
The Commission may request advance payment of all or
part of the fee (i) when fees are expected to exceed $250; or (ii) when a requester has previously failed to pay fees in a timely fashion.
(g)
Payment of fees.
Payment should be made by check or money order payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(h)
Interest on fees.
The Commission will begin charging interest on unpaid bills starting on the 31th day following the day on which the bill was sent. Interest will be at the rate prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717.
(i)
Collection of fees.
If fees not paid, the Commission may disclose debts to appropriate authorities for collection or to consumer reporting agencies.
[52 FR 19308, May 22, 1987, as amended at 64 FR 27, Jan. 4, 1999; 69 FR 67507, Nov. 18, 2004]
Appendix C to Part 145 [Reserved]
Pt. 146

# PART 146—RECORDS MAINTAINED ON INDIVIDUALS
Sec.
146.1
Purpose and scope.
146.2
Definitions.
146.3
Requests by an individual for information or access.
146.4
Procedures for identifying the individual making the request.
146.5
Disclosure of requested information to individuals; fees for copies of records.
146.6
Disclosure to third parties.
146.7
Content of systems of records.
146.8
Amendment of a record.
146.9
Appeals to the Commission.
146.10
Information supplied by the Commission when collecting information from an individual.
146.11
Public notice of records systems.
146.12
Exemptions.
Appendix A to Part 146—Fees for Copies of Records Requested Under the Privacy Act of 1974

# Authority:
88 Stat. 1896 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended; 88 Stat. 1389 (7 U.S.C. 4a(j)).

# Source:
41 FR 3212, Jan. 21, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 146.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part contains the rules of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission implementing the Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-579, 5 U.S.C. 552a). These rules apply to all records maintained by this Commission which are not excepted or exempted as set forth in § 146.12, insofar as they contain personal information concerning an individual, identify that individual by name or other symbol and are contained in a system of records from which information is retrieved by the individual's name or identifying symbol. Among the primary purposes of these rules are to permit individuals to determine whether information about them is contained in Commission files and, if so, to obtain access to that information; to establish procedures whereby individuals may have inaccurate and incomplete information corrected; and, to restrict access by unauthorized persons to that information.
(b) In this part the Commission is also exempting certain Commission systems of records from some of the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 that would otherwise be applicable to those systems. These exemptions are authorized under the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(k).
§ 146.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part 146:
(a) The term
Commission
means the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
(b) The term
Executive Director
refers to the executive level staff official appointed pursuant to section 2(a)(5) of the Commodity Exchange Act.
(c) The term
FOIA compliance staff
refers to the Freedom of Information Act compliance staff assigned to respond to requests for information under the Freedom of Information Act;
(d) The term
individual
means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence;
(e) The term
maintain
includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate;
(f) The term
record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Commission, including but not limited to, his education, financial transactions, and criminal or employment history and that contains his name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual;
(g) The term
system of records
means a group of any records under the control of the Commission from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual;
(h) The term
system notice
means a notice of the existence and character of the Commission's system of records published in the
Federal Register
pursuant to § 146.11(a) of these rules;
(i) The term
routine use
means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of that record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected;
(j) The term
Freedom of Information Act
encompasses both the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552, and the Commission's rules contained in part 145 of this title.
(k) The term
agency
means any executive department, military department, Government corporation, Government controlled corporation or other establishment in the Executive branch of the Government or any independent regulatory agency.
[41 FR 3212, Jan. 21, 1976, as amended at 45 FR 26954, Apr. 22, 1980; 89 FR 71818, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 146.3
Requests by an individual for information or access.
(a) Any individual may request information on whether a system of records maintained by the Commission contains any information pertaining to him, or may request access to his record or to any information pertaining to them which is contained in a system of records. All requests shall be directed to the FOIA compliance staff in the Office of the General Counsel at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters and clearly marked “Privacy Act request.”
(b) A request for information or for access to records under this part may be made by mail or in person. The request shall:
(1) Be in writing and signed by the individual making the request;
(2) Include the full name (including the middle name) of the individual seeking the information or record, his home address and telephone number, his business address and telephone number; and
(3) If he is or ever has been registered with the Commission or its predecessor agency, or associated with a firm so registered as a partner, officer or director or 10% shareholder, state in what capacity he is or was registered.
(c) For each system of records from which information is sought, the request shall:
(1) Specify the title and identifying number for that system as it appears in the system notice published by the Commission;
(2) Provide additional identifying information, if any, specified in the system notice;
(3) Describe the specific information or kind of information sought within that system of records; and
(4) Set forth any special arrangements sought concerning the time, place, or form of access. A description of the information contained in a system notice and instructions on how to obtain copies of the Commission's system notices appear in § 146.11(b).
(d) The Commission will respond in writing to a request made under this section within ten days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) after receipt of the request. If a definitive reply cannot be given within ten days, the request will be acknowledged and an explanation will be given of the status of the request.
(e) When an individual has requested access to records, available to him under these rules, he will either be notified in writing of where and when he may obtain access to the records requested or be given the name, address and telephone number of the member of the Commission staff with whom he should communicate to make further arrangements for access.
[41 FR 3212, Jan. 21, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 28260, July 9, 1976; 60 FR 49335, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71818, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 146.4
Procedures for identifying the individual making the request.
When a request for information or for access to records has been made pursuant to § 146.3, before information is given or access is granted pursuant to § 146.5 of these rules the Commission shall require reasonable identification of the person making the request to insure that information is given and records are disclosed only to the proper person.
(a) An individual may establish his identity by:
(1) Submitting with his request for information or for access a photocopy
