(b) The service company must keep the records of property and property retirements that will reflect the service life of property that has been retired and aid in estimating probable service life by mortality, turnover, or other appropriate methods; and also the records that will reflect the percentage of salvage and costs of removal for property retired from each account, or related subaccount, for depreciable property.
(c) Depreciation expenses applicable to transportation equipment, shop equipment, tools, work equipment, power operated equipment and other general equipment may be charged to clearing accounts as necessary in order to obtain a proper distribution of expenses between construction and operation.
§ 367.4031
Account 403.1, Depreciation expense for asset retirement costs.
This account must include the depreciation expense for asset retirement costs included in service company property.
§ 367.4040
Account 404, Amortization of limited-term property.
This account must include amortization charges applicable to amounts included in the service company property accounts for limited-term franchises, licenses, patent rights, limited-term interests in land, and expenditures on leased property where the service life of the improvements is terminable by action of the lease. The charges to this
account must be sufficient to distribute the book cost of each investment as evenly as may be over the period of its benefit (
See
account 111, Accumulated provision for amortization of service company property (§ 367.1110)).
§ 367.4050
Account 405, Amortization of other property.
(a) When authorized by the Commission, this account must include charges for amortization of intangible or other property that does not have a definite or terminable life and that is not subject to charges for depreciation expense.
(b) This account must be supported in sufficient detail to show the amortization applicable to each investment being amortized, together with the book cost of the investment and the period over which it is being written off.
§ 367.4073
Account 407.3, Regulatory debits.
This account shall be debited, when appropriate, with amounts credited to Account 254, Other Regulatory Liabilities, to record regulatory liabilities imposed on the service company by the ratemaking actions of regulatory agencies. This account shall also be debited, when appropriate, with the amounts credited to Account 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets, concurrent with the recovery of such amounts in rates.
§ 367.4074
Account 407.4, Regulatory credits.
This account shall be credited, when appropriate, with amounts debited to Account 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets, to establish regulatory assets. This account shall also be credited, when appropriate, with the amounts debited to Account 254, Other Regulatory Liabilities, concurrent with the return of such amounts to customers through rates.
§ 367.4081
Account 408.1, Taxes other than income taxes, operating income.
This account must include those taxes, other than income taxes, that relate to service company operating income. This account must be maintained so as to allow ready identification of the various classes of taxes.
§ 367.4082
Account 408.2, Taxes other than income taxes, other income and deductions.
This account must include those taxes, other than income taxes, that relate to other income and deductions.
§ 367.4091
Account 409.1, Income taxes, operating income.
This account must include the amount of those local, state and Federal income taxes that relate to service company operating income.
§ 367.4092
Account 409.2, Income taxes, other income and deductions.
This account must include the amount of those local, state and Federal income taxes (both positive and negative), that relate to other income and deductions.
§ 367.4093
Account 409.3, Income taxes, extraordinary items.
This account must include the amount of those local, state and Federal income taxes (both positive and negative), that relate to extraordinary items.
§ 367.4101
Account 410.1, Provision for deferred income taxes, operating income.
This account must include the amounts of those deferrals of taxes and allocations of deferred taxes that relate to service company operating income.
§ 367.4102
Account 410.2, Provision for deferred income taxes, other income and deductions.
This account must include the amounts of those deferrals of taxes and allocations of deferred taxes that relate to other income and deductions.
§ 367.4111
Account 411.1, Provision for deferred income taxes—Credit, operating income.
This account must include the amounts of those allocations of deferred taxes and deferrals of taxes, credit, that relate to service company operating income.
§ 367.4112
Account 411.2, Provision for deferred income taxes—Credit, other income and deductions.
This account must include the amounts of those allocations of deferred taxes and deferrals of taxes, credit, that relate to other income and deductions.
§ 367.4114
Account 411.4, Investment tax credit adjustments, service company property.
This account must include the amount of those investment tax credit adjustments that relate to service company property.
§ 367.4115
Account 411.5, Investment tax credit adjustments, other.
This account must include the amount of those investment tax credit adjustments not properly included in other accounts.
§ 367.4116
Account 411.6, Gains from disposition of service company plant.
(a) The service company must record in this account gains resulting from the settlement of asset retirement obligations related to service company plant in accordance with the accounting prescribed in General Instructions in § 367.22.
(b) Income taxes relating to losses, recorded in this account must be recorded in Account 409.1, Income Taxes, operating income (§ 367.4091).
§ 367.4117
Account 411.7, Losses from disposition of service company plant.
(a) The service company must record in this account losses resulting from the settlement of asset retirement obligations related to service company plant in accordance with the accounting prescribed in General Instructions in § 367.22.
(b) Income taxes relating to losses, recorded in this account must be recorded in Account 409.1, Income Taxes, operating income (§ 367.4091).
§ 367.4118
Account 411.10, Accretion expense.
This account must be charged for accretion expense on the liabilities associated with asset retirement obligations included in account 230, Asset retirement obligations (§ 367.2300), related to service company property.
§ 367.4120
Account 412, Cost and expenses of construction or other services.
This account must include expenditures related to the performance of construction or service contracts, under which the service company undertakes projects to construct physical property for associate or non-associate companies (see General Instructions § 367.24, Construction and service contracts for other companies) and the cost of services performed for others not provided for elsewhere.
§ 367.4160
Account 416, Costs and expenses of merchandising, jobbing and contract work.
(a) This account must include the following labor items for services provided:
(1) Canvassing and demonstrating appliances in homes and other places for the purpose of selling appliances.
(2) Demonstrating and selling activities in sales rooms.
(3) Installing appliances on customer premises where the work is done only for purchasers of appliances from the associated company.
(4) Installing wiring, piping, or other property work, on a jobbing or contract basis.
(5) Preparing advertising materials for appliance sales purposes.
(6) Receiving and handling customer orders for merchandise or for jobbing services.
(7) Cleaning and tidying sales rooms.
(8) Maintaining display counters and other equipment used in merchandising.
(9) Arranging merchandise in sales rooms and decorating display windows.
(10) Reconditioning repossessed appliances.
(11) Bookkeeping and other clerical work in connection with merchandise and jobbing activities.
(12) Supervising merchandise and jobbing operations.
(b) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:
(1) Advertising in newspapers, periodicals, radio, television, and other similar items.
(2) Cost of merchandise sold and of materials used in jobbing work.
(3) Stores expenses on merchandise and jobbing stocks.
(4) Fees and expenses of advertising and commercial artists' agencies.
(5) Printing booklets, dodgers, and other advertising data.
(6) Premiums given as inducement to buy appliances.
(7) Light, heat and power.
(8) Depreciation on equipment used primarily for merchandise and jobbing operations.
(9) Rent of sales rooms or of equipment.
(10) Transportation expense in delivery and pick-up of appliances by the associated company's facilities.
(11) Stationery and office supplies and expenses.
(12) Losses from uncollectible merchandise and jobbing accounts.
(c) Records in support of this account shall be so kept as to permit ready summarization of costs and expenses by such major items as are feasible.
(d) Related taxes must be recorded in account 408.2, Taxes other than income taxes, other income and deductions (§ 367.4082), or account 409.2, Income taxes, other income and deductions (§ 367.4092), as appropriate.
§ 367.4180
Account 418, Non-operating rental income.
(a) The expenses shall include all elements of costs incurred in the ownership and rental of property and the accounts shall be maintained so as to permit ready summarization of operation, maintenance, rents, depreciation, and amortization.
(b) Related taxes shall be recorded in Account 408.2, Taxes other than income taxes, other income and deductions (§ 367.4082) or Account 409.2, Income taxes, other income and deductions (§ 367.4092), as appropriate.
§ 367.4181
Account 418.1, Equity in earnings of subsidiary companies.
This account must include the service company's equity in the earnings or losses of subsidiary companies for the year.
§ 367.4190
Account 419, Interest and dividend income.
(a) This account must include interest revenues on securities, loans, notes, advances, special deposits, tax refunds and all other interest-bearing assets, and dividends on stocks of other companies, whether the securities on which the interest and dividends are received are carried as investments or included in sinking or other special fund accounts.
(b) This account may include the
pro rata
amount necessary to extinguish (during the interval between the date of acquisition and the date of maturity) the difference between the cost to the service company and the face value of interest-bearing securities. The amounts credited or charged must be concurrently included in the accounts in which the securities are carried.
(c) Where significant in amount, expenses, excluding operating taxes and income taxes, applicable to security investments and to interest and dividend revenues on the account must be charged in this account.
(d) Related taxes must be recorded in account 408.2, Taxes other than income taxes, other income and deductions (§ 367.4082), or account 409.2, Income taxes, other income and deductions (§ 367.4092).
(e) Interest accrued, the payment of which is not reasonably assured, dividends receivable that have not been declared or guaranteed, and interest or dividends upon reacquired securities issued or assumed by the service company must not be credited to this account.
§ 367.4191
Account 419.1, Allowance for other funds used during construction.
This account must include concurrent credits for allowance for other funds used during construction.
§ 367.4210
Account 421, Miscellaneous income or loss.
This account must include all revenue and expense items except taxes properly includible in the income account and not provided for elsewhere. Related taxes must be recorded in account 408.2, Taxes other than income taxes, other income and deductions
(§ 367.4082), or account 409.2, Income taxes, other income and deductions (§ 367.4092).
§ 367.4211
Account 421.1, Gain on disposition of property.
This account must be credited with the gain on the sale, conveyance, exchange, or transfer of service or other property to another. Income taxes on gains recorded in this account must be recorded in account 409.2, Income taxes, other income and deductions (§ 367.4092).
§ 367.4212
Account 421.2, Loss on disposition of property.
This account must be charged with the loss on the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer of service or other property to another. The reduction in income taxes relating to losses recorded in this account must be recorded in account 409.2, Income taxes, other income and deductions (§ 367.4092).
§ 367.4250
Account 425, Miscellaneous amortization.
(a) This account must include amortization charges not includible in other accounts which are properly deductible in determining the income of the service company before interest charges. Charges included in this account, if significant in amount, must be in accordance with an orderly and systematic amortization program.
(b) This account must include the following items:
(1) Amortization of intangibles included in service company property.
(2) Other miscellaneous amortization charges authorized to be included in this account by the Commission.
§ 367.4261
Account 426.1, Donations.
This account must include all payments or donations for charitable, social or community welfare purposes.
§ 367.4262
Account 426.2, Life insurance.
This account must include all payments for life insurance of officers and employees where the service company is beneficiary (net premiums less increase in cash surrender value of policies).
§ 367.4263
Account 426.3, Penalties.
This account must include payments by the service company for penalties or fines for violation of any regulatory statutes by the service company or its officials.
§ 367.4264
Account 426.4, Expenditures for certain civic, political and related activities.
(a) This account must include expenditures for the purpose of influencing public opinion with respect to the election or appointment of public officials, referenda, legislation, or ordinances (either with respect to the possible adoption of new referenda, legislation or ordinances or repeal or modification of existing referenda, legislation or ordinances) or approval, modification, or revocation of franchises; or for the purpose of influencing the decisions of public officials.
(b) This account must not include expenditures that are directly related to appearances before regulatory or other governmental bodies in connection with an associate utility company's existing or proposed operations.
§ 367.4265
Account 426.5, Other deductions.
This account must include other miscellaneous expenses that are not properly included in service company operations.
§ 367.4270
Account 427, Interest on long-term debt.
(a) This account must include the amount of interest on outstanding long-term debt issued or assumed by the service company, the liability for which is included in account 224, Other long-term debt (§ 367.2240).
(b) This account must be kept or supported so as to show the interest accruals on each class and series of long-term debt.
(c) This account must not include interest on nominally issued or nominally outstanding long-term debt, including securities assumed.
§ 367.4280
Account 428, Amortization of debt discount and expense.
(a) This account must include the amortization of unamortized debt discount and expense on outstanding long-
term debt. Amounts charged to this account must be credited concurrently to accounts 181, Unamortized debt expense (§ 367.1810), and 226, Unamortized discount on long-term debt—Debit (§ 367.2260).
(b) This account must be kept or supported so as to show the debt discount and expense on each class and series of long-term debt.
§ 367.4290
Account 429, Amortization of premium on debt—Credit.
(a) This account must include the amortization of unamortized net premium on outstanding long-term debt. Amounts credited to this account must be charged concurrently to account 225, Unamortized premium on long-term debt (§ 367.2250).
(b) This account must be kept or supported so as to show the premium on each class and series of long-term debt.
(c) This account must include the following items:
(1) Loss relating to investments in securities written-off or written-down.
(2) Loss on sale of investments.
(3) Loss on reacquisition, resale or retirement of service company's debt securities.
(4) Preliminary survey and investigation expenses related to abandoned projects, when not written-off to the appropriate operating expense account.
§ 367.4300
Account 430, Interest on debt to associate companies.
This account must include interest accrued on amounts included in account 223, Advances from associate companies (§ 367.2230), and account 233, Notes payable to associate companies (§ 367.2330). The records supporting the entries to this account must be kept so as to show to who the interest is to be paid, the period covered by the accrual, the rate of interest and the principal amount of the advances or other obligations on which the interest is accrued. Separate subaccounts must be maintained for each related debt account.
§ 367.4310
Account 431, Other interest expense.
This account must include all interest charges not provided for elsewhere.
§ 367.4320
Account 432, Allowance for borrowed funds used during construction—Credit.
This account must include concurrent credits for allowance for borrowed funds used during construction.

# Subpart I—Retained Earnings Accounts
§ 367.4330
Account 433, Balance transferred from income.
This account must include the net credit or debit transferred from income for the year.
§ 367.4340
Account 434, Extraordinary income.
This account must be credited with gains of unusual nature and infrequent occurrence that would significantly distort the current year's income computed before extraordinary items, if reported other than as extraordinary items. Income tax relating to the amounts recorded in this account must be recorded in account 409.3, Income taxes, extraordinary items (§ 367.4093) (See General Instructions in § 367.8).
§ 367.4350
Account 435, Extraordinary deductions.
This account must be debited with losses of unusual nature and infrequent occurrence that would significantly distort the current year's income computed before extraordinary items, if reported other than as extraordinary items. Income tax relating to the amounts recorded in this account must be recorded in account 409.3, Income taxes, extraordinary items (§ 367.4093) (
See
General Instructions in § 367.8).
§ 367.4360
Account 436, Appropriations of retained earnings.
This account must include appropriations of retained earnings as follows:
(a) Appropriations required under terms of mortgages, orders of courts, contracts, or other agreements.
(b) Appropriations required by action of regulatory authorities.
(c) Other appropriations made at option of the service company for specific purposes.
§ 367.4370
Account 437, Dividends declared—preferred stock.
(a) This account must include amounts declared payable out of retained earnings as dividends on actually outstanding preferred or prior lien capital stock issued by the service company.
(b) Dividends must be segregated for each class and series of preferred stock as to those payable in cash, stock, and other forms. If not payable in cash, the medium of payment must be described with sufficient detail to identify it.
§ 367.4380
Account 438, Dividends declared—common stock.
(a) This account must include amounts declared payable out of retained earnings as dividends on actually outstanding common capital stock issued by the service company.
(b) Dividends must be segregated for each class of common stock as to those payable in cash, stock and other forms. If not payable in cash, the medium of payment must be described with sufficient detail to identify it.
§ 367.4390
Account 439, Adjustments to retained earnings.
(a) This account must, with prior Commission approval, include significant non-recurring transactions accounted for as prior period adjustments, as follows:
(1) Correction of an error in the financial statements of a prior year.
(2) Adjustments that result from realization of income tax benefits of reacquisition operating loss carry forwards of purchased subsidiaries. All other items of profit and loss recognized during a year must be included in the determination of net income for that year.
(b) Adjustments, charges, or credits due to losses on reacquisition, resale or retirement of the company's own capital stock must be included in this account.

# Subpart J—Operating Revenue Chart of Accounts
§ 367.4570
Account 457, Services rendered to associate companies.
This account must include amounts billed to associate companies for services rendered at cost (
See
accounts 457.1 through 457.3 in §§ 367.4571 through 367.4573). Overbillings or underbillings arising from adjustments of estimated costs to actual costs must be cleared through this account and concurrent adjustments made to other accounts involved.
§ 367.4571
Account 457.1, Direct costs charged to associate companies.
This account must include those direct costs that can be identified through a cost allocation system as being applicable to services performed for associate companies. This account must not include any compensation for use of equity capital or inter-company interest on indebtedness.
§ 367.4572
Account 457.2, Indirect costs charged to associate companies.
This account must include recovery of those indirect costs that cannot be separately identified to a single or group of associate companies and therefore must be allocated. Only journal or memorandum entries should be prepared monthly, by departments, for all such cost accumulated and billed to customers. Amounts billed to associate companies must be included in this account. This account must not include any compensation for use of equity capital or inter-company interest on indebtedness.
§ 367.4573
Account 457.3, Compensation for use of capital-associate companies.
This account must include only the portion of compensation for use of equity capital and inter-company interest on indebtedness before income taxes that is properly allocable to services rendered to each associate company.
§ 367.4580
Account 458, Services rendered to non-associate companies.
This account must include amounts billed for services rendered to non-associate companies (
See
accounts 458.1 through 458.4 (§§ 367.4581 through 367.4584)).
§ 367.4581
Account 458.1, Direct costs charged to non-associate companies.
This account must include those direct costs that can be identified through a cost allocation system as being applicable to services performed for non-associate companies. This account must not include any compensation for use of equity capital or interest on indebtedness.
§ 367.4582
Account 458.2, Indirect costs charged to non-associate companies.
This account must include recovery of those indirect costs of services performed for non-associate companies that cannot be specifically assigned and therefore must be allocated. This account must not include any compensation for use of equity capital or inter-company interest on indebtedness.
§ 367.4583
Account 458.3, Compensation for use of capital—Non-associate companies.
This account must include only the portion of compensation for use of equity capital and inter-company interest on indebtedness before income taxes that is properly allocable to services rendered to non-associate utility companies. A statement to support the basis for the compensation and how it was calculated must be attached to a separate journal entry, ledger system, or memorandum file.
§ 367.4584
Account 458.4, Excess or deficiency on servicing non-associate utility companies.
This account must include the amount by which the aggregate price received for services rendered to non-associate utility companies differs from the sum of the total direct and indirect costs and compensation for use of capital which are properly allocable to such services (
See
accounts 458.1 through 458.3 (§§ 367.4581 through 367.4583) and General Instructions in § 367.23).

# Subpart K—Operation and Maintenance Expense Chart of Accounts
§ 367.5000
Accounts 500-598, Electric operation and maintenance accounts.
Service companies must use accounts 500 through 598 in part 101 of this chapter.
§ 367.8000
Accounts 800-894, Gas operation and maintenance accounts.
Service companies must use accounts 800 through 894 in part 201 of this chapter.
§ 367.9010
Account 901, Supervision.
This account must include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general direction and supervision of customer accounting and collecting activities. Direct supervision of a specific activity must be charged to account 902, Meter reading expenses (§ 367.9020), or account 903, Customer records and collection expenses (§ 367.9030), as appropriate (
See
Operating Expense Instructions in § 367.80).
§ 367.9020
Account 902, Meter reading expenses.
(a) This account must include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in reading customer meters, and determining consumption when performed by employees engaged in reading meters.
(b) This account must include the following labor items:
(1) Addressing forms for obtaining meter readings by mail.
(2) Changing and collecting meter charts used for billing purposes.
(3) Inspecting time clocks, checking seals, and other similar items, when performed by meter readers and the work represents a minor activity incidental to regular meter reading routine.
(4) Reading meters, including demand meters, and obtaining load information for billing purposes. Exclude and charge to account 586, Meter expenses (§ 367.5000), account 878, Meter and house regulator expenses (§ 367.8000), or to account 903, Customer records and
collection expenses (§ 367.9030), as applicable, the cost of obtaining meter readings, first and final, if incidental to the operation of removing or resetting, sealing, or locking, and disconnecting or reconnecting meters.
(5) Computing consumption from meter reader's book or from reports by mail when done by employees engaged in reading meters.
(6) Collecting from prepayment meters when incidental to meter reading.
(7) Maintaining record of customers” keys.
(8) Computing estimated or average consumption when performed by employees engaged in reading meters.
(c) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:
(1) Badges, lamps, and uniforms.
(2) Demand charts, meter books and binders and forms for recording readings, but not the cost of preparation.
(3) Postage and supplies used in obtaining meter readings by mail.
(4) Transportation, meals, and incidental expenses.
§ 367.9030
Account 903, Customer records and collection expenses.
(a) This account must include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in work on customer applications, contracts, orders, credit investigations, billing and accounting, collections and complaints.
(b) This account must include the following labor items:
(1) Receiving, preparing, recording and handling routine orders for service, disconnections, transfers or meter tests initiated by the customer, excluding the cost of carrying out the orders, that is chargeable to the account appropriate for the work called for by the orders.
(2) Investigations of customers” credit and keeping of records pertaining to the investigations, including records of uncollectible accounts written off.
(3) Receiving, refunding or applying customer deposits and maintaining customer deposit, line extension, and other miscellaneous records.
(4) Checking consumption shown by meter readers” reports where incidental to preparation of billing data.
(5) Preparing address plates and addressing bills and delinquent notices.
(6) Preparing billing data.
(7) Operating billing and bookkeeping machines.
(8) Verifying billing records with contracts or rate schedules.
(9) Preparing bills for delivery, and mailing or delivering bills.
(10) Collecting revenues, including collection from prepayment meters unless incidental to meter-reading operations.
(11) Balancing collections, preparing collections for deposit, and preparing cash reports.
(12) Posting collections and other credits or charges to customer accounts and extending unpaid balances.
(13) Balancing customer accounts and controls.
(14) Preparing, mailing, or delivering delinquent notices and preparing reports of delinquent accounts.
(15) Final meter reading of delinquent accounts when done by collectors incidental to regular activities.
(16) Disconnecting and reconnecting service because of nonpayment of bills.
(17) Receiving, recording, and handling of inquiries, complaints, and requests for investigations from customers, including preparation of necessary orders, but excluding the cost of carrying out such orders, which is chargeable to the account appropriate for the work called for by the orders.
(18) Statistical and tabulating work on customer accounts and revenues, but not including special analyses for sales department, rate department, or other general purposes, unless incidental to regular customer accounting routines.
(19) Preparing and periodically rewriting meter reading sheets.
(20) Determining consumption and computing estimated or average consumption when performed by employees other than those engaged in reading meters.
(c) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:
(1) Address plates and supplies.
(2) Cash overages and shortages.
(3) Commissions or fees to others for collecting.
(4) Payments to credit organizations for investigations and reports.
(5) Postage.
(6) Transportation expenses (Major only), including transportation of customer bills and meter books under centralized billing procedure.
(7) Transportation, meals, and incidental expenses.
(8) Bank charges, exchange, and other fees for cashing and depositing customers' checks.
(9) Forms for recording orders for services removals, and other similar forms.
(10) Rent of mechanical equipment.
(d) The cost of work on meter history and meter location records is chargeable to account 586, Meter expenses (§ 367.5000) or account 878, Meter and house regulator expenses (§ 367.8000).
§ 367.9040
Account 904, Uncollectible accounts.
This account must be charged with amounts sufficient to provide for losses from uncollectible service company revenues. Concurrent credits must be made to account 144, Accumulated provision for uncollectible accounts—Credit (§ 367.1440). Losses from uncollectible accounts also must be charged to account 144 (§ 367.1440).
§ 367.9050
Account 905, Miscellaneous customer accounts expenses.
(a) This account must include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred not provided for in other accounts.
(b) This account must include the following labor items:
(1) General clerical and stenographic work.
(2) Miscellaneous labor.
(c) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:
(1) Communication service.
(2) Miscellaneous office supplies and expenses and stationery and printing other than those specifically provided for in accounts 902 and 903 (§§ 367.9020 and 367.9030).
§ 367.9070
Account 907, Supervision.
This account must include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general direction and supervision of customer service activities, the object of which is to encourage safe, efficient and economical use of the associate utility company's service. Direct supervision of a specific activity within customer service and informational expense classification must be charged to the account wherein the costs of such activity are included (
See
Operating Expense Instructions in § 367.80).
§ 367.9080
Account 908, Customer assistance expenses.
(a) This account must include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in providing instructions or assistance to customers, the object of which is to encourage safe, efficient and economical use of the associate utility company's service.
(b) This account must include the following labor items:
(1) Direct supervision of department.
(2) Processing customer inquiries relating to the proper use of electric equipment, the replacement of such equipment and information related to the equipment.
(3) Advice directed to customers as to how they may achieve the most efficient and safest use of electric equipment.
(4) Demonstrations, exhibits, lectures, and other programs designed to instruct customers in the safe, economical or efficient use of electric service, and/or oriented toward conservation of energy.
(5) Engineering and technical advice to customers, the object of which is to promote safe, efficient and economical use of the associate utility company's service.
(c) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:
(1) Supplies and expenses pertaining to demonstrations, exhibits, lectures, and other programs.
(2) Loss in value on equipment and appliances used for customer assistance programs.
(3) Office supplies and expenses.
(4) Transportation, meals, and incidental expenses.
(d) Do not include in this account expenses that are provided for elsewhere, such as accounts 416, Costs and expenses of merchandising, jobbing and contract work (§ 367.4160), 587, Customer installations expenses (§ 367.5870), 879, Customer installations
expenses (§ 367.8790), and 912, Demonstrating and selling expenses (§ 367.9120).
§ 367.9090
Account 909, Informational and instructional advertising expenses.
(a) This account must include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in activities which primarily convey information as to what the associate utility company urges or suggests customers should do in utilizing service to protect health and safety, to encourage environmental protection, to utilize their equipment safely and economically, or to conserve energy.
(b) This account must include the following labor items:
(1) Direct supervision of informational activities.
(2) Preparing informational materials for newspapers, periodicals, billboards, and other similar forms of advertisement, and preparing and conducting informational motion pictures, radio and television programs.
(3) Preparing informational booklets, bulletins, and other similar forms of advertisement, used in direct mailings.
(4) Preparing informational window and other displays.
(5) Employing agencies, selecting media and conducting negotiations in connection with the placement and subject matter of information programs.
(c) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:
(1) Use of newspapers, periodicals, billboards, radio, and other similar forms of advertisement, for informational purposes.
(2) Postage on direct mailings to customers exclusive of postage related to billings.
(3) Printing of informational booklets, dodgers, bulletins, and other similar items.
(4) Supplies and expenses in preparing informational materials for the associate utility company.
(5) Office supplies and expenses.
(d) Exclude from this account and charge to account 930.2, Miscellaneous general expenses, the cost of publication of stockholder reports, dividend notices, bond redemption notices, financial statements, and other notices of a general corporate character. Also exclude all expenses of a promotional, institutional, goodwill or political nature, that are included in accounts 913, Advertising expenses (§ 367.9130), 930.1, General advertising expenses (§ 367.9301), and 426.4, Expenditures for certain civic, political, and related expenses (§ 367.4264).
(e) Entries relating to informational advertising included in this account must contain or refer to supporting documents that identify the specific advertising message. If references are used, copies of the advertising message must be readily available.
§ 367.9100
Account 910, Miscellaneous customer service and informational expenses.
(a) This account must include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in connection with customer service and informational activities that are not includible in other customer information expense accounts.
(b) This account must include the following labor items:
(1) General clerical and stenographic work not assigned to specific customer service and informational programs.
(2) Miscellaneous labor.
(c) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:
(1) Communication service.
(2) Printing, postage and office supplies expenses.
§ 367.9110
Account 911, Supervision.
This account must include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general direction and supervision of sales activities, except merchandising. Direct supervision of a specific activity, such as demonstrating, selling, or advertising, must be charged to the account wherein the costs of such activity are included (
See
Operating Expense Instructions in § 367.80).
§ 367.9120
Account 912, Demonstrating and selling expenses.
(a) This account must include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in promotional, demonstrating, and selling activities, except by merchandising, the object of
which is to promote or retain the business of present and prospective customers of the service company and the companies within the holding company system that is not recorded in Accounts 416, Costs and expenses of merchandising, jobbing and contract work (§ 367.4160), or 930.1, General advertising expenses for associated companies (§ 367.9301).
(b) This account must include the following labor items:
(1) Demonstrating uses of services provided by companies within the holding company system.
(2) Conducting cooking schools, preparing recipes, and related home service activities.
(3) Exhibitions, displays, lectures, and other programs to promote the services provided by the service company or the companies within the holding company system.
(4) Experimental and development work in connection with new and improved appliances and equipment, prior to general public acceptance.
(5) Solicitation of new customers or of additional business from old customers, including commissions paid employees.
(6) Engineering and technical advice to present or prospective customers in connection with promoting or retaining the use of services.
(7) Special customer canvasses when their primary purpose is the retention of business or the promotion of new business.
(c) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:
(1) Supplies and expenses pertaining to demonstration and experimental and development activities.
(2) Booth and temporary space rental.
(3) Loss in value on equipment and appliances used for demonstration purposes.
(4) Transportation, meals, and incidental expenses.
§ 367.9130
Account 913, Advertising expenses.
(a) This account must include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in advertising designed to promote or retain the use of services provided by the service company or the companies within the holding company system, except advertising the sale of merchandise.
(b) This account must include the following labor items:
(1) Direct supervision of department.
(2) Preparing advertising material for newspapers, periodicals, billboards, and other similar forms of advertisement, and preparing and conducting motion pictures, radio and television programs.
(3) Preparing booklets, bulletins, and other similar forms of advertisement, used in direct mail advertising.
(4) Preparing window and other displays.
(5) Clerical and stenographic work.
(6) Investigating advertising agencies and media and conducting negotiations in connection with the placement and subject matter of sales advertising.
(c) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:
(1) Advertising in newspapers, periodicals, billboards, radio, and other similar forms of advertisement, for sales promotion purposes, but not including institutional or goodwill advertising included in account 930.1, General advertising expenses (§ 367.9301).
(2) Materials and services given as prizes or otherwise in connection with civic lighting contests, canning, or cooking contests, bazaars, and other similar materials and services, in order to publicize and promote the use of utility services.
(3) Fees and expenses of advertising agencies and commercial artists.
(4) Novelties for general distribution.
(5) Postage on direct mail advertising.
(6) Premiums distributed generally, such as recipe books, and other similar items, when not offered as inducement to purchase appliances.
(7) Printing booklets, dodgers, bulletins, and other similar forms of advertisement.
(8) Supplies and expenses in preparing advertising material.
(9) Office supplies and expenses.
(d) The cost of advertisements which set forth the value or advantages of offered services without reference to specific appliances or the promotion of appliances must be considered sales promotion advertising and charged to this
account. However, advertisements that are limited to specific makes of appliances sold by any company and prices, terms, and other similar items, without referring to the value or advantages of offered services, must be considered as merchandise advertising and the cost must be charged to account 416, Costs and expenses of merchandising, jobbing and contract work (§ 367.4160).
(e) Advertisements that substantially mention or refer to the value or advantages of offered services, together with specific reference to makes of appliances sold by any company and the price, terms, and other similar items, and designed for the joint purpose of increasing the use of offered services and the sales of appliances, must be considered as a combination advertisement and the costs must be distributed between this account and account 416 (§ 367.4160) on the basis of space, time, or other proportional factors.
(f) Exclude from this account and charge to account 930.2, Miscellaneous general expenses (§ 367.9302), the cost of publication of stockholder reports, dividend notices, bond redemption notices, financial statements, and other notices of a general corporate character. Exclude also all institutional or goodwill advertising (
See
account 930.1, General advertising expenses (§ 367.9301)).
§ 367.9160
Account 916, Miscellaneous sales expenses.
(a) This account must include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in connection with sales activities, except merchandising, which are not includible in other sales expense accounts.
(b) This account must include the following labor items:
(1) General clerical and stenographic work not assigned to specific functions.
(2) Special analysis of customer accounts and other statistical work for sales purposes not a part of the regular customer accounting and billing routine.
(3) Miscellaneous labor.
(c) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:
(1) Communication service.
(2) Printing, postage, and office supplies and expenses applicable to sales activities, except those chargeable to account 913, Advertising expenses (§ 367.9130).
§ 367.9200
Account 920, Administrative and general salaries.
(a) This account must include salaries, wages, bonuses and other consideration for services, with the exception of director's fees paid directly to officers and employees of the service company.
(b) This account must be supported by time records and appropriately referenced to detailed records subdividing salaries and wages by departments or other functional organization units.
§ 367.9210
Account 921, Office supplies and expenses.
(a) This account must include office supplies and expenses incurred in connection with the general administration of service company operations assignable to specific administrative or general departments and not specifically provided for in other accounts. This includes the expenses of the various administrative and general departments, the salaries and wages of which are included in account 920, Administrative and general salaries (§ 367.9200).
(b) This account may be subdivided in accordance with a classification appropriate to the departmental or other functional organization of the service company. The following items must be included in this account:
(1) Automobile service, including charges through clearing account.
(2) Bank messenger and service charges.
(3) Books, periodicals, bulletins and subscriptions to newspapers, newsletters, tax service, and other similar items.
(4) Building service expenses for customer accounts, sales, and administrative and general purposes.
(5) Communication service expenses to include telephone, telegraph, wire transfer, micro-wave, and other similar items.
(6) Cost of individual items of office equipment used by general departments which are of small value or short life.
(7) Membership fees and dues in trade, technical, and professional associations paid by a utility for employees. (Company memberships must be included in account 930.2 in § 367.9302.)
(8) Office supplies and expenses.
(9) Payment of court costs, witness fees, and other expenses of legal department.
(10) Postage, printing and stationery.
(11) Meals, traveling, entertainment and incidental expenses.
(c) Records must be so maintained to permit ready analysis by item showing the nature of the expense and identity of the person furnishing the service.
§ 367.9230
Account 923, Outside services employed.
(a) This account must include the fees and expenses of professional consultants and others for general services with the exception of fees and expenses for outside services of account 928, Regulatory commission expenses (§ 367.9280), and account 930.1, General advertising expenses (§ 367.9301). Separate subaccounts must be provided for auditing, legal, engineering, management consulting fees and any other fees for professional or outside services.
(b) Records must be maintained so as to permit ready analysis showing the nature of service, identity of the person furnishing the service, affiliation to the service company, and, if allocated to more than one company, the specific method of allocation.
§ 367.9240
Account 924, Property insurance.
(a) This account must include the cost of insurance or reserve accruals to protect the service company against losses and damages to owned or leased property used in service company operations. It also must include the cost of labor and related supplies and expenses incurred in property insurance activities.
(b) Recoveries from insurance companies or others for property damages must be credited to the account charged with the cost of the damage. If the damaged property has been retired, the credit must be to the appropriate account for accumulated provision for depreciation.
(c) Records must be kept so as to show the amount of coverage for each class of insurance carried, the property covered, and the applicable premiums. Any dividends distributed by mutual insurance companies must be credited to the accounts to which the insurance premiums were charged. The following items must be included in this account:
(1) Premiums payable to insurance companies for fire, storm, burglary, boiler explosion, lightning, fidelity, riot, and similar insurance.
(2) Special costs incurred in procuring insurance.
(3) Insurance inspection service.
(4) Insurance counsel, brokerage fees, and expenses.
(d) The cost of insurance or reserve accruals capitalized must be charged to construction either directly or by transfer to construction projects from this account.
(e) The cost of insurance or reserve accruals for the following classes of property must be charged as indicated.
(1) Materials and supplies and stores equipment, to account 163, Stores expense undistributed (§ 367.1630), or appropriate materials account.
(2) Transportation and other general equipment to appropriate clearing accounts that may be maintained.
(3) Merchandise and jobbing property, to account 416, Costs and expenses of merchandising, jobbing and contract work (§ 367.4160).
(f) The cost of labor and related supplies and expenses of administrative and general employees who are only incidentally engaged in property insurance work may be included in accounts 920 and 921 (§§ 367.9200 and 367.9210), as appropriate.
§ 367.9250
Account 925, Injuries and damages.
(a) This account must include the cost of insurance or reserve accruals to protect the service company against injuries and damages claims of employees or others, losses of such character not covered by insurance, and expenses incurred in settlement of injuries and damages claims. It also must include the cost of labor and related supplies and expenses incurred in injuries and damages activities.
(b) Reimbursements from insurance companies or others for expenses charged to this account because of injuries and damages and insurance dividends or refunds must be credited to this account. The following items must be included in this account:
(1) Premiums payable to insurance companies for protection against claims from injuries and damages by employees or others, such as public liability, property damages, casualty, employee liability, and other similar items.
(2) Losses not covered by insurance or reserve accruals on account of injuries or deaths to employees or others and damages to the property of others.
(3) Fees and expenses of claim investigators.
(4) Payment of awards to claimants for court costs and attorneys' services.
(5) Medical and hospital service and expenses for employees as the result of occupational injuries, or resulting from claims of others.
(6) Compensation payments under workmen's compensation laws.
(7) Compensation paid while incapacitated as the result of occupational injuries (
See
paragraph (c) of this section).
(8) Cost of safety, accident prevention and similar educational activities.
(c) Payments to or on behalf of employees for accident or death benefits, hospital expenses, medical supplies or for salaries while incapacitated for service or on leave of absence beyond periods normally allowed, when not the result of occupational injuries, must be charged to account 926, Employee pensions and benefits (§ 367.9260) (
See also
paragraph (e) of account 926 (§ 367.9260)).
(d) The cost of injuries and damages or reserve accruals capitalized must be charged to construction directly or by transfer to construction projects from this account.
(e) Exclude the time and expenses of employees (except those engaged in injuries and damages activities) spent in attendance at safety and accident prevention educational meetings, if occurring during the regular work period.
(f) The cost of labor and related supplies and expenses of administrative and general employees who are only incidentally engaged in injuries and damages activities may be included in accounts 920 and 921 (§§ 367.9200 and 367.9210), as appropriate.
§ 367.9260
Account 926, Employee pensions and benefits.
(a) This account must include pensions paid to, or on behalf of, retired employees, or accruals to provide for pensions, or payments for the purchase of annuities for this purpose, when the service company has definitely, by contract, committed itself to a pension plan under which the pension funds are irrevocably devoted to pension purposes, and payments for employee accident, sickness, hospital, and death benefits, or insurance related to this account. Include, also, expenses incurred in medical, educational or recreational activities for the benefit of employees, and administrative expenses in connection with employee pensions and benefits.
(b) The service company must maintain a complete record of accruals or payments for pensions and be prepared to furnish full information to the Commission of the plan under which it has created or proposes to create a pension fund and a copy of the declaration of trust or resolution under which the pension plan is established.
(c) Records in support of this account must be kept so that the total pensions expense, the total benefits expense, the administrative expenses included in this account, and the amounts of pensions and benefits expenses transferred to construction or other accounts will be readily available. The following items must be included in this account:
(1) Payment of pensions under a non-accrual or non-funded basis.
(2) Accruals for or payments to pension funds or to insurance companies for pension purposes.
(3) Group and life insurance premiums (credit dividends received).
(4) Payments for medical and hospital services and expenses of employees when not the result of occupational injuries.
(5) Payments for accident, sickness, hospital, and death benefits or insurance.
(6) Payments to employees incapacitated for service or on leave of absence
beyond periods normally allowed, when not the result of occupational injuries, or in excess of statutory awards.
(7) Expenses in connection with educational and recreational activities for the benefit of employees.
(d) The cost of labor and related supplies and expenses of administrative and general employees who are only incidentally engaged in employee pension and benefit activities may be included in accounts 920 and 921 (§§ 367.9200 and 367.9210), as appropriate.
(e) Salaries paid to employees during periods of non-occupational sickness may be charged to the appropriate labor account rather than to employee benefits.
§ 367.9280
Account 928, Regulatory commission expenses.
(a) This account must include all expenses, properly included in service company operating expenses, incurred by the service company in connection with formal cases before regulatory commissions, or other regulatory bodies, on its own behalf or on behalf of associate companies, including payments made to a regulatory commission for fees assessed to the service company for pay and expenses of such commission, its officers, agents and employees, and for filings or reports made under regulations of regulatory commissions. The service company must be prepared to show the cost of each formal case. The following items must be included in this account:
(1) Salaries, fees, retainers, and expenses of counsel, solicitors, attorneys, accountants, engineers, clerks, attendants, witnesses, and others engaged in the prosecution of, or defense against petitions or complaints presented to regulatory bodies.
(2) Office supplies and expenses, payments to public service or other regulatory commissions, stationery and printing, traveling expenses, and other expenses incurred directly in connection with formal cases before regulatory commissions.
(b) Exclude from this account and include in other appropriate operating expense accounts, expenses incurred in the improvement of service, additional inspection, or rendering reports, which are made necessary by the rules and regulations, or orders, of regulatory bodies.
§ 367.9301
Account 930.1, General advertising expenses for associated companies.
(a) This account must include the cost of labor, materials used, and expenses incurred in advertising and related activities, the cost of which by their content and purpose are not provided for elsewhere.
(b) This account must include the following labor items:
(1) Supervision.
(2) Preparing advertising material for newspapers, periodicals, billboards, and other similar items, and preparing or conducting motion pictures, radio and television programs.
(3) Preparing booklets, bulletins, and other similar forms of advertisement, used in direct mail advertising.
(4) Preparing window and other displays.
(5) Clerical and stenographic work.
(6) Investigating and employing advertising agencies, selecting media and conducting negotiations in connection with the placement and subject matter of advertising.
(c) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:
(1) Advertising in newspapers, periodicals, billboards, radio, and other similar forms of advertisement.
(2) Advertising matter such as posters, bulletins, booklets, and related items.
(3) Fees and expenses of advertising agencies and commercial artists.
(4) Postage and direct mail advertising.
(5) Printing of booklets, dodgers, bulletins, and other related items.
(6) Supplies and expenses in preparing advertising materials.
(7) Office supplies and expenses.
(d) Properly includible in this account is the cost of advertising activities on a local or national basis of a good will or institutional nature, which is primarily designed to improve the image of the associate utility company or the industry, including advertisements which inform the public concerning matters affecting the associate utility company's operations, such as,
the cost of providing service, the associate utility company's efforts to improve the quality of service, the company's efforts to improve and protect the environment, and other similar forms of advertisement. Entries relating to advertising included in this account must contain or refer to supporting documents which identify the specific advertising message. If references are used, copies of the advertising message must be readily available.
(e) Exclude from this account and include in account 426.4, Expenditures for certain civic, political and related activities (§ 367.4264), expenses for advertising activities that are designed to solicit public support or the support of public officials in matters of a political nature.
§ 367.9302
Account 930.2, Miscellaneous general expenses.
(a) This account must include the cost of expenses incurred in connection with the general management of the service company not provided for elsewhere.
(b) This account must include labor items including miscellaneous labor not elsewhere provided for.
(c) This account must include the following expenses items:
(1) Industry association dues for company memberships.
(2) Contributions for conventions and meetings of the industry.
(3) Research, development, and demonstration expenses not charged to other operation and maintenance expense accounts on a functional basis.
(4) Communication service not chargeable to other accounts.
(5) Trustee, registrar, and transfer agent fees and expenses.
(6) Stockholders meeting expenses.
(7) Dividend and other financial notices.
(8) Printing and mailing dividend checks.
(9) Directors' fees and expenses.
(10) Publishing and distributing annual reports to stockholders.
(11) Public notices of financial, operating and other data required by regulatory statutes, not including, however, notices required in connection with security issues or acquisitions of property.
(d) Records must be maintained so as to permit ready analysis by item showing the nature of the expense and identity of the person furnishing the service.
§ 367.9310
Account 931, Rents.
This account must include rents, including taxes, paid for the property of others used, occupied or operated in connection with service company functions. Provide subaccounts for major groupings such as office space, warehouses, other structure, office furniture, fixtures, computers, data processing equipment, microwave and telecommunication equipment, airplanes, automobiles, and other similar groupings of property. The cost, when incurred by the lessee, of operating and maintaining leased property, must be charged to the accounts appropriate for the expense as if the property were owned.
§ 367.9350
Account 935, Maintenance of structures and equipment.
This account must include materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of property owned, the cost of which is included in accounts 390 through 399 (§§ 367.3900 through 367.3990), and of property leased from others. Provide subaccounts by major classes of structures and equipment, owned and leased.
Pt. 368

# PART 368—PRESERVATION OF RECORDS OF HOLDING COMPANIES AND SERVICE COMPANIES
Sec.
368.1
Promulgation.
368.2
General instructions.
368.3
Schedule of records and periods of retention.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 16451-16463.

# Source:
Order 684, 71 FR 65262, Nov. 7, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 368.1
Promulgation.
This part is prescribed and promulgated as the regulations governing the preservation of records by any holding company and by any service company
within a holding company system subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. §§ 16451
et seq.
).
§ 368.2
General instructions.
(a)
Scope of this part.
(1) The regulations in this part apply to all books of account and other records prepared, maintained or held by any agent or employee on behalf of the company. The specification in the schedule in § 368.3 of a record related to a type of transaction includes all documents and correspondence, not redundant or duplicative of other records retained, needed to explain or verify the transaction.
(2) Company means a service company or a holding company as defined in § 367.1 of this chapter. Public utilities, licensees, and natural gas companies must continue to use parts 125 and 225 of this chapter.
(3) Any company subject to this regulation, that, as agent, operator, lessor or otherwise, maintains or has possession of any records relating to the operation, property or obligations of a public utility, licensee, or natural gas company, as defined in the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. §§ 824
et seq.
), the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 717
et seq.
), or the laws of any state within which the public utility, licensee, or natural gas company operates, must comply with the laws or regulations as to record retention and destruction which would apply to the records if they were records of the public utility, licensee, or natural gas company as codified in parts 125 and 225 of this chapter.
(4) The regulations in this part should not be construed as excusing compliance with other lawful requirements of any other governmental body, Federal or State, prescribing other record keeping requirements or for preservation of records longer than those prescribed in this part.
(5) To the extent that any Commission regulations may provide for a different record retention period, the records must be retained for the longer of the retention periods.
(6) Records, other than those listed in the schedule, may be destroyed at the option of the company. However, records that are used in lieu of those listed must be preserved for the periods prescribed for the records used for substantially similar purposes. Additionally, retention of records pertaining to added services, functions, plant, and other similar service, the establishment of which cannot be presently foreseen, must conform to the principles embodied in this section.
(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of the records retention schedule in this section, the Commission may, upon the request of the company, authorize a shorter period of retention for any record listed in the schedule upon a showing by the company that preservation of the record for a longer period is not necessary or appropriate, in the public interest or for the protection of investors or consumers.
(b)
Designation of supervisory official.
Each company subject to these record retention regulations must designate one or more officials to supervise the preservation or authorized destruction of its records.
(c)
Protection and storage of records.
The company must provide reasonable protection from damage by fire, flood, and other hazards for records required by these record retention regulations to be preserved and, in the selection of storage space, safeguard such records from unnecessary exposure to deterioration from excessive humidity, dryness, or lack of proper ventilation.
(d)
Index of records.
At each site or location where company records are kept or stored, the records must be arranged, filed, and currently indexed so that records may be readily identified and made available for inspection by authorized representatives of any regulatory agency concerned, including the Commission.
(e)
Record storage media.
Each company has the flexibility to select its own storage media subject to the following conditions.
(1) The storage media must have a life expectancy at least equal to the applicable record retention period provided in § 368.3 of this chapter unless there is a quality transfer from one media to another with no loss of data.
(2) Each company is required to implement internal control procedures that assure the reliability of, and ready
access to, data stored on machine readable media. Internal control procedures must be documented by a responsible supervisory official.
(3) Each transfer of data from one media to another must be verified for accuracy and documented. Software and hardware required to produce readable records must be retained for the same period the media format is used.
(f)
Destruction of records.
At the expiration of the retention period, the company may use any appropriate method to destroy records. Precautions should be taken, however, to macerate or otherwise destroy the legibility of records, the content of which is forbidden by law to be divulged to unauthorized persons.
(g)
Premature destruction or loss of records.
When records are destroyed or lost before the expiration of the prescribed period of retention, a certified statement listing, as far as may be determined, the records destroyed and describing the circumstances of accidental or other premature destruction or loss must be filed with the Commission within 90 days from the date of discovery of the destruction.
(h)
Schedule of records and periods of retention.
The schedule of records retention periods constitutes a part of these records retention regulations. The schedule prescribes the periods of time that designated records must be preserved. Plant records related to public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies must be retained in accordance with §§ 125.3 and 225.3 of this chapter.
(i)
Retention periods designated “Destroy at option.”
“Destroy at option” constitutes authorization for destruction of records at managements' discretion if the destruction does not conflict with other legal retention requirements or usefulness of the records in satisfying pending regulatory actions or directives. “Destroy at option after audit” requires retention until the company has received an opinion from its independent accountants with respect to the financial statements including the transactions to which the records relate.
(j)
Records of services performed by associate companies.
Holding companies and service companies must assure the availability of records of services performed by and for public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies with supporting cost information for the periods indicated in §§ 125.3 and 225.3 of this chapter as necessary to be able to readily furnish detailed information as to the nature of the transaction, the amounts involved, and the accounts used to record the transactions.
(k)
Rate case.
Notwithstanding the minimum retention periods provided in these regulations, the company must retain the appropriate records to support the costs and adjustments proposed in any rate case.
(l)
Pending complaint litigation or governmental proceedings.
Notwithstanding the minimum requirements, if a company is involved in pending litigation, complaint procedures, proceedings remanded by the court, or governmental proceedings, it must retain all relevant records.
(m)
Life or mortality study data.
Life or mortality study data for depreciation purposes must be retained for 25 years or for 10 years after property is retired, whichever is longer.
§ 368.3
Schedule of records and periods of retention.
Schedule of Records and Periods of Retention
Item No. and description
Retention period
Corporate and General
1. Reports to stockholders: Annual reports or statements to stockholders
5 years.
2. Organizational documents:
(a) Minute books of stockholders, directors' and directors' committee meetings
5 years or termination of the corporation's existence, whichever occurs first.
(b) Title, franchises, and licenses: Copies of formal orders of regulatory commissions served upon the company
6 years after final non-appealable order.
(1) Certificates of incorporation, or equivalent agreements and amendments thereto
Life of corporation.
(2) Deeds, leases and other title papers (including abstracts of title and supporting data), and contracts and agreements related to the acquisition or disposition of property or investments
6 years after property or investment is disposed of unless delivered to transferee.
3. Contracts and agreements: Contracts, including amendments and agreements (except contracts provided for elsewhere):
(a) Service contracts, such as for management, consulting, accounting, legal, financial or engineering services
All contracts, related memoranda, and revisions should be retained for 4 years after expiration or until the conclusion of any contract disputes pertaining to such contracts, whichever is later.
(b) Memoranda essential to clarify or explain provisions of contracts and agreements
For same period as contract to which they relate.
(c) Card or book records of contracts, leases, and agreements made, showing dates of expirations and of renewals, memoranda of receipts, and payments under such contracts
For the same periods as contracts to which they relate.
(d) Contracts and other agreements relating to services performed in connection with construction of property (including contracts for the construction of property by others for the company and for supervision and engineering relating to construction work)
All contracts, related memoranda, and revisions should be retained for 4 years after expiration or until the conclusion of any contract disputes or governmental proceedings pertaining to such contracts, whichever is later.
4. Accountants' and auditors' reports:
(a) Reports of examinations and audits by accountants and auditors not in the regular employ of the company (such as reports of public accounting firms and commission accountants)
5 years after the date of the report.
(b) Internal audit reports and working papers
5 years after the date of the report.
Information Technology Management
5. Automatic data processing records (retain original source data used as input for data processing and data processing report printouts for the applicable periods prescribed elsewhere in the schedule): Software program documentation and revisions thereto
Retain as long as it represents an active viable program or for periods prescribed for related output data, whichever is shorter.
General Accounting Records
6. General and subsidiary ledgers:
(a) Ledgers:
(1) General ledgers
10 years.
(2) Ledgers subsidiary or auxiliary to general ledgers except ledgers provided for elsewhere
10 years.
(b) Indexes:
(1) Indexes to general ledgers
10 years.
(2) Indexes to subsidiary ledgers except ledgers provided for elsewhere
10 years.
(c) Trial balance sheets of general and subsidiary ledgers
2 years
7. Journals: General and subsidiary
10 years.
8. Journal vouchers and journal entries including supporting detail:
(a) Journal vouchers and journal entries
10 years.
(b) Analyses, summarization, distributions, and other computations which support journal vouchers and journal entries:
(1) Charging property accounts
25 years. See §§ 125.2(g) and 225.2(g) of this chapter for public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies.
(2) Charging all other accounts
6 years.
9. Cash books: General and subsidiary or auxiliary books
5 years after close of fiscal year.
10. Voucher registers: Voucher registers or similar records when used as a source document
5 years. See §§ 125.2(g) and 225.2(g) of this chapter for public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies.
11. Vouchers:
(a) Paid and canceled vouchers (one copy-analysis sheets showing detailed distribution of charges on individual vouchers and other supporting papers
5 years. See §§ 125.2(g) and 225.2(g) of this chapter for public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies.
(b) Original bills and invoices for materials, services, etc., paid by vouchers
5 years. See §§ 125.2(g) and 225.2(g) of this chapter for public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies.
(c) Paid checks and receipts for payments of specific vouchers
5 years.
(d) Authorization for the payment of specific vouchers
5 years. See §§ 125.2(g) and 225.2(g) of this chapter for public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies.
(e) Lists of unaudited bills (accounts payable), list of vouchers transmitted, and memoranda regarding changes in audited bills
Destroy at option.
(f) Voucher indexes
Destroy at option.
(g) Purchases and stores records related to disbursement vouchers
5 years.
Insurance
12. Insurance records:
(a) Records of insurance policies in force, showing coverage, premiums paid, and expiration dates
Destroy at option after expiration of such policies.
(b) Records of amounts recovered from insurance companies in connection with losses and of claims against insurance companies, including reports of losses, and supporting papers
6 years. See §§ 125.2(g) and 225.2(g) of this chapter for public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies.
(c) Records of self-insurance against:
(1) losses from fire and casualty,
6 years after date of last accounting entry with respect thereto.
(2) damage to property of others, and
6 years after date of last accounting entry with respect thereto.
(3) personal injuries
6 years after date of last accounting entry with respect thereto.
(d) Inspectors' reports and reports of condition of property
Destroy when superseded.
Maintenance
13. Maintenance project and work orders:
(a) Authorizations for expenditures for maintenance work to be covered by project or work orders, including memoranda showing the estimates of costs to be incurred
5 years.
(b) Project or work order sheets to which are posted in detail the entries for labor, material, and other charges in connection with maintenance, and other work pertaining to company operations
5 years.
(c) Summaries of expenditures on maintenance and job orders and clearances to operating other accounts (exclusive of property accounts)
5 years.
Property, Depreciation and Investments
14. Property records, excluding documents included in Item 2(a)(2):
(a) Ledgers of property accounts including land and other detailed ledgers showing the cost of property by classes
25 years. See §§ 125.2(g) and 225.2(g) of this chapter for public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies.
(b) Continuing property inventory ledger, book or card records showing description, location, quantities, cost, etc., of physical units (or items) of property owned
25 years. See §§ 125.2(g) and 225.2(g) of this chapter for public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies.
(c) Operating equipment records
3 years after disposition, termination of lease, or write-off of property or investment.
(d) Office furniture and equipment records
3 years after disposition, termination of lease or write-off of property or investment.
(e) Automobiles, other vehicles and related garage equipment records
3 years after disposition, termination of lease or write-off of property or investment.
(f) Aircraft and airport equipment records
3 years after disposition, termination of lease or write-off of property or investment.
(g) Other property records not defined elsewhere
3 years after disposition, termination of lease or write-off of property or investment.
15. Construction work in progress ledgers, project or work orders, and supplemental records:
(a) Construction work in progress ledgers
5 years after clearance to property account, provided continuing inventory records are maintained; otherwise 5 years after property is retired.
(b) Project or work orders sheets to which are posted in summary form or in detail the entries for labor, materials, and other charges for property additions and the entries closing the project or work orders to property records at completion
5 years after clearance to property account, provided continuing inventory records are maintained; otherwise 5 years after property is retired.
(c) Authorizations for expenditures for additions to property, including memoranda showing the detailed estimates of cost, and the bases therefore (including original and revised or subsequent authorizations)
5 years after clearance to property account.
(d) Requisitions and registers of authorizations for property expenditures
5 years after clearance to property account.
(e) Completion or performance reports showing comparison between authorized estimates and actual expenditures for property additions
5 years after clearance to property account.
(f) Analysis or cost reports showing quantities of materials used, unit costs, number of man-hours etc., in connection with completed construction project
5 years after clearance to property account.
(g) Records and reports pertaining to progress of construction work, the order in which jobs are to be completed, and similar records which do not form a basis of entries to the accounts
Destroy at option.
16. Retirement work in progress ledgers, project or work orders, and supplemental records:
(a) Project or work order sheets to which are posted the entries for removal costs, materials recovered, and credits to property accounts for cost of property retirement
5 years after the property is retired.
(b) Authorizations for retirement of property, including memoranda showing the basis for determination to be retired and estimates of salvage and removal costs
5 years after the property is retired.
(c) Registers of retirement work
5 years.
17. Summary sheets, distribution sheets, reports, statements, and papers directly supporting debits and credits to property accounts not covered by construction or retirement project or work orders and their supporting records
5 years.
18. Appraisals and valuations:
(a) Appraisals and valuations made by the company of its properties or investments or of the properties or investments of any associated companies. (Includes all records essential thereto.)
3 years after appraisal.
(b) Determinations of amounts by which properties or investments of the company or any of its associated companies will be either written up or written down as a result of:
(1) Mergers or acquisitions
10 years after completion of transaction or as ordered by the Commission.
(2) Asset impairments
10 years after recognition of asset impairment.
(3) Other bases
10 years after the asset was written up or down.
19. Production maps, geological maps, reproductions, including aerial photographs, showing the location of all facilities the subject matter of which falls within the project or work orders of the company
6 years after completion of project or work order.
20. Engineering records, drawings, supporting data to include diagrams, profiles, photographs, field-survey notes, plot plans, detail drawings, and records of engineering studies that are part of or performed by the company within the project or work order system
6 years after completion of project or work order.
21. Records of building space occupied by various departments of the company
6 years.
22. Contracts relating to property:
(a) Contracts relating to acquisition or sale of property
6 years after property is retired or sold
(b) Contracts and other agreements relating to services performed in connection with construction of property (including contracts for the construction of property by others for the company and for supervision and engineering relating to construction work)
6 years after property is retired or sold.
23. Records pertaining to reclassification of property accounts to conform to prescribed systems of accounts including supporting papers showing the bases for such reclassifications
6 years.
24. Records of accumulated provisions for depreciation and depletion of property and amortization of intangible property and supporting computation of expense:
(a) Detailed records or analysis sheets segregating the accumulated depreciation according to the classification of property
3 years after retirement or disposition of property
(b) Records reflecting the service life of property and the percentage of salvage and cost of removal for property retired from each account for depreciable company property
3 years after retirement or disposition of property
25. Investment records:
(a) Records of investment in associate companies
3 years after disposition of investment.
(b) Records of other investments, including temporary investments of cash
3 years after disposition of investment.
Purchase and Stores
26. Procurement:
(a) Agreements entered into for the acquisition of goods or the performance of services. Includes all forms of agreements such as but not limited to: Letters of intent, exchange of correspondence, master agreements, term contracts, rental agreements, and the various types of purchase orders:
(1) For goods or services relating to property construction
6 years. See §§ 125.2(g) and 225.2(g) of this chapter for public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies.
(2) For other goods or services
6 years.
(b) Supporting documents including accepted and unaccepted bids or proposals (summaries of unaccepted bids or proposals may be kept in lieu of originals) evidencing all relevant elements of the procurement
6 years. See §§ 125.2(g) and 225.2(g) of this chapter for public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies.
27. Material ledgers: Ledger sheets of materials and supplies received, issued, and on hand
6 years after the date the records/ledgers were created.
28. Materials and supplies received and issued: Records showing the detailed distribution of materials and supplies issued during accounting periods
6 years. See §§ 125.2(g) and 225.2(g) of this chapter for public utilities and licensees and natural gas companies).
Revenue Accounting
29. Miscellaneous billing data: Billing department's copies of contracts with customers (other than contracts in general files)
5 years.
30. Revenue summaries: Summaries of monthly revenues according to classes of service. Including summaries of forfeited discounts and penalties
5 years.
Tax
31. Tax records:
(a) Copies of tax returns and supporting schedules filed with taxing authorities, supporting working papers, records of appeals of tax bills, and receipts for payment. See Item 11 for vouchers evidencing disbursements:
(1) Income tax returns
2 years after final tax liability is determined.
(2) Agreements between and schedule of allocation by associate companies of consolidated Federal income taxes
2 years after final tax liability is determined.
(b) Other taxes, including State or local property or income taxes
(1) Property tax returns
2 years after final tax liability is determined.
(2) Sales and other use taxes
2 years.
(3) Other Taxes
2 years after final tax liability is determined.
(c) Filings with taxing authorities to qualify employee benefit plans
5 years after discontinuance of plan.
(d) Information returns and reports to taxing authorities
3 years after final tax liability is determined.
Treasury
32. Statements of funds and deposits:
(a) Summaries and periodic statements of cash balances on hand and with depositories for company or associate
Destroy at option after completion of audit by independent accountants.
(b) Requisitions and receipts for funds furnished associates and others
Destroy at option after funds have been returned or accounted for.
(c) Statements of periodic deposits with external fund administrators or trustees
Retain records for the most recent 3 years.
(d) Statements of periodic withdrawals from external fund
Retain records for the most recent 3 years.
33. Records of deposits with banks and others:
(a) Statements from depositories showing the details of funds received, disbursed, transferred, and balances on deposit, bank reconcilement papers and statements of interest credits
Destroy at option after completion of audit by independent accountants.
(b) Check stubs, registers, or other records of checks issued
6 years.
Payroll Records
34. Payroll records:
(a) Payroll sheets or registers of payments of salaries and wages, pensions and annuities paid by company or by contractors of its account
6 years.
(b) Records showing the distribution of salaries and wages paid for each payroll period and summaries or recapitulations of such distribution
6 years.
Miscellaneous
35. Financial, operating and statistical annual reports regularly prepared in the course of business for internal administrative or operating purposes
5 years.
36. Budgets and other forecasts (prepared for internal administrative or operating purposes) of estimated future income, receipts and expenditures in connection with financing, construction and operations, including acquisitions and disposals of properties or investments
3 years.
37. Periodic or special reports filed by the company on its own behalf with the Commission or with any other Federal or State rate-regulatory agency, including exhibits or amendments to such reports:
(a) Reports to Federal and State regulatory commissions including annual financial, operating and statistical reports
5 years.
(b) Monthly and quarterly reports of operating revenues, expenses, and statistics
5 years.
38. Advertising: Copies of advertisements by or for the company on behalf of itself or any associate company in newspapers, magazines, and other publications, including costs and other records relevant thereto (excluding advertising of appliances, employment opportunities, routine notices, and invitations for bids all of which may be destroyed at option)
2 years.
Pt. 369

# PART 369—STATEMENTS AND REPORTS (SCHEDULES)

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 16451-16463.

# Source:
Order 684, 71 FR 65267, Nov. 7, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 369.1
FERC Form No. 60, Annual report of centralized service company.
(a)
Prescription.
The form of annual report for centralized service companies, designated as FERC Form No. 60, is prescribed for the reporting year 2008 and each subsequent year.
(b)
Filing requirements
—(1)
Who must file.
Unless the holding company system is exempted or granted a waiver by Commission rule or order pursuant to §§ 366.3 and 366.4, every centralized service company (
See
§ 367.2 of this chapter) in a holding company system must prepare and file electronically with the Commission the FERC Form No. 60 then in effect pursuant to the General Instructions set out in the form.
(2)
When to file and what to file.
(i) The annual report for the year ending December 31, 2008 must be filed by May 1, 2009. The annual report for each year thereafter must be filed by May 1 of the following years.
(ii) The annual report in effect must be filed with the Commission as prescribed in § 385.2011 of this chapter and as indicated in the General Instructions set out in the form, and must be properly completed and verified. Filing on electronic media pursuant to § 385.2011 of this chapter is required.

# SUBCHAPTER W—REVISED GENERAL RULES
Pt. 375

# PART 375—THE COMMISSION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
375.101
The Commission.
375.102
Custody and authentication of Commission records.
375.103
Official seal.
375.104
Transfer of proceedings from other agencies to the Commission.
375.105
Filings.

# Subpart B—Procedures Under the Government in the Sunshine Act
375.201
Purpose.
375.202
Definitions and limitations on definitions.
375.203
Open meetings.
375.204
Notice of meetings.
375.205
Closed meetings.
375.206
Procedures to close meetings.

# Subpart C—Delegations
375.301
Purpose and subdelegations.
375.302
Delegations to the Secretary.
375.303
Delegations to the Director of the Office of Electric Reliability.
375.304
Delegations to the Chief Administrative Law Judge.
375.305
Delegations to the Solicitor.
375.307
Delegations to the Director of the Office of Energy Market Regulation.
375.308
Delegations to the Director of the Office of Energy Projects.
375.309
Delegations to the General Counsel.
375.310
Delegations during emergency conditions.
375.311
Delegations to the Director of the Office of Enforcement.
375.312
Delegations to the Office of the Executive Director.
375.313
Delegations to the Critical Energy/Electric Infrastructure Information (CEII) Coordinator.
375.315
Delegations to the Director of the Office of Energy Policy and Innovation.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 551-557; 15 U.S.C. 717-717w, 3301-3432; 16 U.S.C. 791-825r, 2601-2645; 42 U.S.C. 7101-7352.

# Source:
45 FR 21217, Apr. 1, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 375.101
The Commission.
(a)
Establishment.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission is an independent regulatory commission within the Department of Energy established by section 401 of the DOE Act.
(b)
Offices.
The principal office of the Commission is at 888 First Street, NE., Washington, DC 20426. Regional offices are maintained at Atlanta, GA, Chicago, IL, Portland, OR, New York, NY, and San Francisco, CA.
(c)
Hours.
Unless the Chairman otherwise directs, the offices of the Commission are open each day, except Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays, from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
(d)
Sessions.
The Commission may meet and exercise its powers at any place in the United States. The time and place of meetings of the Commission are announced in advance as provided in § 375.204.
(e)
Quorum.
A quorum for the transaction of business consists of at least three members present.
(f)
Action by Commissioners or representatives.
The Commission may, by one or more of its members or by such agents as it may designate, conduct any hearing, or other inquiry necessary or appropriate to its functions, except that nothing in this paragraph supersedes the provisions of section 556, of Title 5, United States Code relating to Administrative Law Judges.
[45 FR 21217, Apr. 1, 1980, as amended by Order 647, 69 FR 32439, June 10, 2004]
§ 375.102
Custody and authentication of Commission records.
(a)
Custody of official records.
The Senior Agency Official for Records shall have legal custody of all records of the Commission. The individual Commission office that maintains a record shall have physical custody of that record.
(b)
Authentication of action.
All orders and other actions of the Commission shall be authenticated by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee, with the exception of actions taken pursuant to delegations of authority under 18 CFR part 375, subpart C, which will be authenticated by the issuing official. Issuances posted on the Commission's electronic filing system on the
Commission's website are authenticated.
[Order 868, 85 FR 9663, Feb. 20, 2020]
§ 375.103
Official seal.
The Commission hereby prescribes as its official seal, judicial notice of which shall be taken pursuant to section 401(e) of the DOE Act, the imprint illustrated below and described as follows:
A circle, the outside border of which shall consist of two concentric circles enclosing the words “Department of Energy” and “Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.” Within the inner circle shall appear a stylized eagle with head facing to its right. Its body shall be in the shape of a tapered shield, widest at the top, consisting of nine vertical stripes. The top of the shield contains five equally-spaced light color stars representing the five members of the Commission appointed by the President under Title IV of the DOE Act. Identical stylized wings appear on either side of the shield, each incorporating twenty stylized feathers protruding from a solid color wing-like shape. Below the eagle shall appear five squares, arranged in a horizontal line. Each of these squares shall contain a circle representing an area of the Commission's responsibility. The first square at the left of the line shall include a stylized representation of a pipeline; the second square shall represent a hydroelectric power facility; the third, and center square, shall represent a natural gas flame; the fourth square shall represent a drilling rig; the fifth square shall represent a stylized lightning bolt.
EC05OC91.036
§ 375.104
Transfer of proceedings from other agencies to the Commission.
(a)
Transfer of pending proceedings.
Pursuant to the authorization provided in section 705(b)(2), and the provisions of section 705(b)(1) of the DOE Act, all proceedings and applications pending at the time such Act took effect, before any department, agency, commission, or component thereof, the functions of which have been transferred to the Commission by the Act, have been transferred in accordance with the joint regulations issued by the Commission and the Secretary of Energy on October 1, 1977. Those joint regulations appear as an appendix to this section.
(b)
Substitution of Commission for other agencies in court proceedings.
Pursuant to section 705(e) of the DOE Act, the Commission authorizes the Solicitor of the Commission to file the appropriate pleadings to substitute the Commission for the Interstate Commerce Commission or the Federal Power Commission as necessary in any pending court litigation, responsibility for which is transferred to the Commission.

# Appendix to § 375.104

# PART 1000—TRANSFER OF PROCEEDINGS TO THE SECRETARY OF ENERGY AND THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION
§ 1000.1 Transfer of proceedings.
(a)
Scope.
This part establishes the transfer of proceedings pending with regard to those functions of various agencies which have been consolidated in the Department of Energy and identifies those proceedings which are transferred into the jurisdiction of the Secretary and those which are transferred into the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
(b)
Proceedings transferred to the Secretary.
The following proceedings are transferred to the Secretary:
(1) All Notices of Proposed Rulemaking, pending and outstanding, which have been proposed by the Department of Energy;
(2) All Notices of Inquiry which have been issued by the Department of Energy;
(3) All Requests for Interpretations which have been filed pursuant to 10 CFR part 205, subpart F, and on which no interpretation has been issued, with the Office of General Counsel of the Department of Energy;
(4) All Applications for Exception Relief which have been filed pursuant to 10 CFR
part 205, subpart D, and on which no final decision and order has been issued, with the Office of Exceptions and Appeals of the Department of Energy;
(5) All petitions for special redress, relief or other extraordinary assistance which have been filed pursuant to 10 CFR part 205, subpart R, and on which no order has been issued, with the Office of Private Grievances and Redress of the Department of Energy;
(6) All appeals from Remedial Orders, Exception Decisions and Orders, Interpretations issued by the Office of General Counsel, and other agency orders which have been filed pursuant to 10 CFR part 205, subpart H, and on which no order has been issued prior to October 1, 1977, with the Office of Exceptions and Appeals of the Department of Energy;
(7) All applications for modification or rescission of any DOE order or interpretation which have been filed pursuant to 10 CFR part 205, subpart J, and on which no order has been issued prior to October 1, 1977, with the Office of Exceptions and Appeals of the Federal Energy Administration;

# Note:
For a document relating to procedures for natural gas import and export proceedings see 42 FR 61856, Dec. 7, 1977.
(8) All applications for temporary stays and stays which have been filed pursuant to 10 CFR part 205, subpart I, and on which no order has been issued, with the Office of Exceptions and Appeals of the Department of Energy;
(9) All applications which have been filed with the Office of Regulatory Programs of the Department of Energy and on which no final order has been issued;
(10) All investigations which have been instituted and have not been resolved by the Office of Compliance of the Department of Energy;
(11) All Notices of Probable Violation which have been issued prior to October 1, 1977, by the Office of Compliance of Department of Energy;
(12) All Notices of Proposed Disallowance which have been issued prior to October 1, 1977, by the Office of Compliance of Department of Energy;
(13) All Prohibition Orders which have been issued pursuant to 10 CFR part 303 and as to which no Notice of Effectiveness has been issued;
(14) From the Department of the Interior:
(i) The tentative power rate adjustments for the Central Valley Project, California, proposed on September 12, 1977 (42 FR 46619, September 16, 1977).
(15) From the Interstate Commerce Commission:
(i) Ex Parte No. 308 (Sub-No. 1)—Investigation of Common Carrier Pipelines.
(16) From the Federal Power Commission:
(i) Cases:
(A) Northwest Pipeline Corporation, Docket No. CP75-340.
(B) Midwestern Gas Transmission Co., Docket No. CP77-458,
et al.
(C) St. Lawrence Gas Company, Docket No. G-17500.
(D) U.S.D.I. Bonneville Power Administration, Docket No. E-9563.
(E) U.S.D.I. Southwestern Power Administration, Docket No. E-7201.
(F) U.S.D.I. Southeastern Power Administration, Docket No. E-6957.
(G) Tenneco InterAmerica, Inc., Docket No. CP77-561.
(ii) Applications:
(A) Maine Public Service Co., Docket No. E-6751, (ERA Docket No. IE-78-1).
(B) Northern States Power Co., Docket No. E-9589, (ERA Docket No. IE-78-2).
(C) Arizona Public Service Co., Docket No. IT-5331, (ERA Docket No. IE-78-3).
(D) Niagara Mohawk Power Corp., Docket No. E-7022, (ERA Docket No. IE-77-6).
(E) Maine Public Service Co., Docket No. IT-6027, (ERA Docket No. PP-12).
(F) Boise Cascade, Docket No. E-7765, (ERA Docket No. PP-52).
(G) Bonneville Power Administration, Docket No. IT-5959, (ERA Docket No. PP-10).
(H) EPR—Oregon (Geothermal Steam Leases).
(I) EPR—Utah (Geothermal Steam Leases).
(J) EPR—Idaho (Geothermal Steam Leases).
(K) EPR—Oregon (Geothermal Steam Leases).
(L) EPR—Idaho (Geothermal Steam Leases).
(iii) Rulemakings:
(A) Implementation of sections 382(b) and 382(c) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1971. Docket No. RM77-3.
(B) Naw Form Nos:
151, Docket No. RM76-19.
153, Docket No. RM76-27.
154, Docket No. RM36-33.
156, Docket No. RM76-32.
157, Docket No. RM76-21.
158, Docket No. RM76-31.
159, Docket No. RM76-23.
160, Docket No. RM76-20.
161, Docket No. RM76-26.
162, Docket No. RM76-34.
155, Docket No. RM76-28.
163, Docket No. RM76-30.
164, Docket No. RM76-25.
(C) Procedures for the Filing of Federal Rate Schedules Docket No. RM77-9.
(iv) Project withdrawals and power site revocations:
(A) Project 1021, 1226, 1606, and 1772—(Wyoming)—U.S. Forest Service (Applicant).
(B) Project Nos. 1021, 1226, 1606, and 1772—(Wyoming)—U.S. Forest Service (Applicant).
(C) Project Nos. 220 and 691—(Wyoming)—Cliff Gold Mining Co. (Applicant for P-691)
The Colowyo Gold Mining Co. (Applicant for P-220).
(D) Project No. 1203—(Wyoming)—F. D. Foster (Applicant).
(E) Project No. 1241—(Wyoming)—F. B. Hommel (Applicant).
(F) Project No. 847—(Oregon)—H. L. Vorse (Applicant).
(G) Project No. 907—(Colorado)—S. B. Collins (Applicant).
(H) Project No. 941—(Colorado)—Marian Mining Company (Applicant).
(I) Project Nos. 347 and 418—(Colorado)—Jones Brothers (Applicant for P-347) Frank Gay et al. (Applicant for P-418).
(J) Project Nos. 373, 521, 937, 1024, 1415, 1546, 1547, and 1025—( )—U.S. Forest (Applicant).
(K) Project No. 163—(Colorado)—James F. Meyser and Edward E. Drach (Applicants).
(L) Project Nos. 385, 445, 506, 519, 1220, 1296, 1418, 1519, 1576, 1615, 1616, 1618, 1678, 1682, and 1750—(Colorado)—U.S. Forest Service (Applicant).
(M) DA-117—(Alaska)—Bureau of Land Management (Applicant).
(N) Project No. 114—(Alaska)—Elizabeth H. Graff et al. (Applicant).
(O) DA-222—(Washington)—Bureau of Land Management (Applicant).
(P) DA-562—(Oregon)—U.S. Geological Survey (Applicant).
(Q) DA-601—(Idaho)—Bureau of Land Management (Applicant).
(R) DA-509—(Colorado)—Fed. Highway Admin. (Applicant).
(S) DA-616—(Idaho)—U.S. Forest Service (Applicant).
(T) DA-1—(South Carolina)—U.S. Forest Service (Applicant).
(U) DA-1116—(California)—U.S. Geological Survey (Applicant).
(V) DA-154—(Arizona)—U.S. Geological Survey (Applicant).
(W) DA-1098—(California)—Merced Irrigation District (Applicant).
(c)
Proceedings transferred to the Commission.
There are hereby transferred to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission the following proceedings:
(1) From the Interstate Commerce Commission:
(i) Ex Parte No. 308—Valuation of Common Carrier Pipelines.
(ii) I
S 9164—Trans Alaska Pipeline System—Rate Filings (including I
S 9164 (Sub-No. 1), NOR 36611, NOR 36611 (Sub-No. 1). NOR 36611 (Sub-No. 2), NOR 36611 (Sub-No. 3), NOR 36611 (Sub-No. 4)).
(iii) I
S 9089—General Increase, December 1975, Williams Pipeline Company.
(iv) I
S 9128—Anhydrous Ammonia, Gulf Central Pipeline Company.
(v) NOR 35533 (Sub-No. 3)—Petroleum Products, Southwest
Midwest Williams Pipeline.
(vi) NOR 35794—Northville Dock Pipeline Corp. et al.
(vii) NOR 35895—Inexco Oil Company v. Belle Fourche Pipeline Co. et al.
(viii) NOR 36217—Department of Defense v. Interstate Storage
Pipeline Corp.
(ix) NOR 36423—Petroleum Products Southwest to Midwest Points.
(x) NOR 36520—Williams Pipeline Company—Petroleum Products Midwest.
(xi) NOR 36553—Kerr-McGee Refining Corporation v. Texoma Pipeline Co.
(xii) Suspension Docket 67124—Williams Pipeline Co.—General Increase.
(xiii) Valuation Docket 1423—Williams Pipeline Company (1971-1974 inclusive).
(2) To remain with the Commission until forwarding to the Secretary:
The following proceedings will continue in effect under the jurisdiction of the Commission until the timely filing of all briefs on and opposing exceptions to the initial decision of the presiding Administrative Law Judge, at which time the Commission shall forward the record of the proceeding to the Secretary for decision on those matters within his jurisdiction:
(i)
El Paso Eastern Co., et al.,
Docket No. CP 77-330,
et al.
(ii)
Tenneco Atlantic Pipeline Co., et al.,
Docket No. CP 77-100,
et al.
(iii)
Distrigas of Massachusetts Corp., et al.,
Docket No. CP 70-196,
et al.
(iv)
Distrigas of Massachusetts Corp., et al.,
Docket No. CP 77-216,
et al.
(v)
Eascogas LNG, Inc., et al.,
Docket No. CP 73-47,
et al.
(vi)
Pacific Indonesia LNG Co., et al.,
Docket No. CP74-160,
et al.,
(except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section).
(3) The Amendment to Application of Western LNG Terminal Associates, filed on November 11, 1977, in
Pacific Indonesia LNG Co., et al.,
FPC Docket No. CP74-160, et al., ERA Docket No. 77-001-LNG, is transferred to the jurisdiction of the Commission until timely filing of all briefs on and opposing exceptions to the Initial Decision of the presiding Administrative Law Judge on that Amendment, at which time the Commission shall forward a copy of the record of that proceeding to the Secretary of Energy for decision on those matters within his jurisdiction. (If the Commission waives the preparation of an initial decision, the Commission will forward a copy of the record after completion of the hearing, or after the timely filing of any briefs submitted to the Commission, whichever occurs later.)
(d)
Residual clause.
All proceedings (other than proceedings described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section) pending with regard to any function of the Department of Energy, the Department of Energy, Department of the Interior, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Navy, and the Naval Reactor and Military Applications Programs which is transferred
to the Department of Energy (DOE) by the DOE Organization Act, will be conducted by the Secretary. All proceedings (other than proceedings described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section) before the Federal Power Commission or Interstate Commerce Commission will be conducted by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
(Department of Energy Organization Act, Pub. L. 95-91; EO 12009, 42 FR 46267)
[42 FR 55534, Oct. 17, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 21434, May 18, 1978; 43 FR 21658, May 19, 1978]
§ 375.105
Filings.
(a)
Filings in pending proceedings.
All filings in proceedings referred to in § 375.104 shall be made with the Secretary.
(b)
Filings in connection with functions transferred to the Commission.
All persons required to file periodic or other reports with any agency or commission whose functions are transferred under such Act to the Commission shall file such reports which relate to those transferred functions with the Secretary. The Commission hereby continues in effect all previously-approved forms for making periodic or other reports.
(c)
Where to make filings.
All filings of documents with the Commission shall be made with the Secretary. The address for filings to be made with the Secretary is: Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 888 First St., NE., Washington, DC 20426. Where a document to be filed with the Secretary is hand-delivered, it shall be submitted to Room 1A, 888 First St., NE., Washington, DC 20426. Documents received after regular business hours are deemed to have been filed on the next regular business day.
[45 FR 21217, Apr. 1, 1980, as amended by Order 647, 69 FR 32439, June 10, 2004]

# Subpart B—Procedures Under the Government in the Sunshine Act
§ 375.201
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to set forth the Commission procedures for conduct of its official business in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552b. The Commission may waive the provisions set forth in this subpart to the extent authorized by law.
§ 375.202
Definitions and limitations on definitions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Meeting
means the deliberations of at least a quorum of the Commission where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct of official Commission business, except that such term does not include deliberations to determine whether to conduct a closed meeting.
(2)
Portion of a meeting
means the consideration during a meeting of a particular topic or item separately identified in the notice of Commission meeting described in § 375.204.
(3)
Open
when used in the context of a Commission meeting or a portion thereof, means the public may attend and observe the deliberations of the Commission during such meeting or portion of a meeting consistent with the provisions of § 375.203.
(4)
Closed
when used in the context of a Commission meeting or a portion thereof, means that the public may not attend or observe the deliberations of the Commission during such meeting or portion of such meeting.
(b)
Limitations on other definitions in this chapter.
For purposes of this subpart:
(1) Transcripts, minutes and electronic recordings of Commission meetings (whether or not prepared at the direction of the Commission) are not part of the “formal record” as defined in § 388.101(c) of this chapter; and
(2) Transcripts, minutes and electronic recordings of Commission meetings (whether or not prepared at the direction of the Commission) are not part of the “public record” of the Commission as defined in § 388.105(b)) of this chapter.
[45 FR 21217, Apr. 1, 1980, as amended by Order 225, 47 FR 19058, May 3, 1982]
§ 375.203
Open meetings.
(a)
General rule.
Except as provided in § 375.206, meetings of the Commission will be open meetings.
(b)
Public participation in open meetings.
(1) Members of the public are invited to listen and observe at open meetings.
(i) “Observe” does not include participation or disruptive conduct, and persons engaging in such conduct will be removed from the meeting.
(ii) The right of the public to observe open meetings does not alter those rules which relate to the filing of motions, pleadings, or other documents. Unless such pleadings conform to the other procedural requirements, pleadings based upon comments or discussions at open meetings, as a general rule, will not become part of the official record, will receive no consideration, and no further action by the Commission will be taken thereon.
(2) To the extent their use does not interfere with the conduct of open meetings, electronic audio and visual recording equipment may be used by a seated observer at an open meeting.
(c)
Physical arrangements.
The Secretary shall be responsible for seeing that ample space, sufficient visibility, and adequate acoustics are provided for public observation of open meetings.
[45 FR 21217, Apr. 1, 1980, as amended at 80 FR 13225, Mar. 13, 2015]
§ 375.204
Notice of meetings.
(a)
Public announcements of meetings
—(1)
General rule.
Except to the extent that information described in § 375.205(a) (involving closed meetings) is exempt from disclosure, the Secretary shall announce at least one week before each Commission meeting, the time, place, and subject matter of the meeting, whether it is an open meeting or closed meeting, and the name and telephone number of the official designated by the Commission to respond to requests for information about the meeting.
(2)
Abbreviated notice.
If the Commission determines by a majority of its members by a recorded vote that Commission business requires that a Commission meeting be called with less than one week's notice as prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Secretary shall make public announcements of the time, place, and subject matter of such meeting and whether open or closed to the public, at the earliest practicable time.
(3)
Change in the time or place.
If there is a change in time or place of a meeting following the public announcement prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section the Secretary shall publicly announce such change at the earliest practicable time.
(4)
Change in the subject matter or the determination to open or close a meeting.
The subject matter of a meeting, or the determination of the Commission to open or close a meeting or a portion of a meeting, may be changed following the public announcement prescribed in paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section only if:
(i) The Commission determines by a recorded vote by a majority of the membership that Commission business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change is possible; and
(ii) The Secretary publicly announces such change and the vote of each member upon such change at the earliest practicable time.
(b)
Stricken items.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, individual items that have been announced for consideration at Commission meetings may be deleted without vote or notice.
(c)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section,
earliest practicable time,
means as soon as practicable, which should in few, if any, instances be later than the commencement of the meeting or portion of the meeting in question.
(d)
Informing public of meeting announcements.
(1) The Secretary shall use reasonable means to assure that the public is fully informed of the public announcements required by this section. For example, such announcements may be posted on the Commission's public notice boards, published in official Commission publications, or sent to the persons on a mailing list maintained for those who want to receive such material.
(2) Immediately following each public announcement required by this section, notice of the time, place, and subject matter of a meeting, whether the meeting is open or closed, any change in a preceding announcement, and the name and telephone number of the official
designated by the Commission to respond to requests for information about the meeting shall also be submitted by the Secretary for publication in the
Federal Register.
(e)
Issuance of list of Commission actions.
Following each Commission meeting, the Secretary shall issue a list of Commission actions taken which shall become effective as of the date of issuance of the related order (or date designated therein) or other document, which the Secretary shall issue in due course, in the manner prescribed by the Commission.
§ 375.205
Closed meetings.
(a) Meetings will be closed to public observation where the Commission properly determines, according to the procedures set forth in § 375.206, that such meeting or portion of the meeting or disclosure of information to be considered at the meeting is likely to:
(1) Disclose matters that are (i) specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or foreign policy and are (ii) in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order;
(2) Relate solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Commission;
(3) Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than 5 U.S.C. 552):
Provided,
That such statute:
(i) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue, or
(ii) Establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(4) Disclose the trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential, which may include geological or geophysical information and data, including maps, concerning wells;
(5) Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person;
(6) Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, including personnel and medical files and similar files;
(7) Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, or information which if written would be contained in such records, but only to the extent that the production of such records or information would:
(i) Interfere with enforcement proceedings;
(ii) Deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
(iii) Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(iv) Disclose the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a record compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, confidential information furnished only by the confidential source;
(v) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures, or;
(vi) Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel.
(8) Disclose information contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions;
(9) Disclose information the premature disclosure of which would be:
(i) In the case of an agency which regulates currencies, securities, commodities, or financial institutions, likely to:
(A) Lead to significant financial speculation in currencies, securities, or commodities, or
(B) Significantly endanger the stability of any financial institution; or
(ii) Likely to frustrate significantly implementation of a proposed Commission action, except that paragraph (a)(9)(i) of this section shall not apply where the Commission has already disclosed to the public the content or nature of such proposed action, or where the Commission is required by law to make such disclosure on its own initiative prior to taking final agency action on such proposal; or
(10) Specifically concern the Commission's issuance of a subpoena, or the Commission's participation in a civil action or proceeding, an action in a
foreign court or international tribunal, or an arbitration, or the initiation, conduct, or disposition by the Commission of a particular case:
(i) Of formal Commission adjudication pursuant to the procedures in 5 U.S.C. 554; or
(ii) Otherwise involving a determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing.
(b) Commission meetings shall not be closed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section when the Commission finds that the public interest requires that they be open.
§ 375.206
Procedures to close meetings.
(a)
General rule.
A meeting or a portion of a meeting may be closed only when the Commission votes by a majority of the membership to close the meeting. A separate vote shall be taken with respect to each Commission meeting or portion of a meeting which is proposed to be closed to the public or with respect to any information which is proposed to be withheld. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, so long as each meeting in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series. The vote of each Commission member participating in such vote shall be recorded and no proxies shall be allowed.
(b)
Request for closed meeting.
Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by a meeting or a portion of a meeting requests that the Commission close such portion to the public for any of the reasons referred to in paragraph (a) (5), (6), or (7) of § 375.205, the Commission, upon request of any one of its members, shall vote by recorded vote whether to close such meeting.
(c)
Release of vote.
Within one day of any vote taken pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the Secretary of the Commission shall make publicly available a written copy of such vote reflecting the vote of each member. If a portion of a meeting is to be closed to the public, the Secretary shall, within one day of the vote taken pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, make publicly available a full written explanation of the Commission's action closing the portion together with a list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliation. The information required by this paragraph shall be disclosed except to the extent that it is exempt from disclosure under the provisions of § 375.205(a).
(d)
Certification.
Prior to a determination that a meeting should be closed pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the General Counsel of the Commission shall publicly certify that, in his opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public and shall state each relevant exemptive provision. A copy of such certification, together with a statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the time and place of the meeting, and the persons present, shall be retained by the Secretary of the Commission as part of the transcript, recording, or minutes required by paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)
Transcripts, recordings, minutes.
(1) The Secretary shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, except that in the case of a meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public pursuant to § 375.205(a)(8), (9)(i), or (10), the Secretary shall maintain either a transcript or recording, or a set of minutes. Any such minutes shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any rollcall vote (reflecting the vote of each member on the question). All agenda documents considered in connection with any Commission action shall be identified in such minutes.
(2) The Secretary shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of at least two years after such meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of
any Commission proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion was held, whichever occurs later.
(f)
Public availability of transcripts, records, minutes.
(1) Within a reasonable time after the adjournment of a meeting closed to the public, the Commission shall make available to the public, in the Division of Public Information of the Commission, Washington, DC, the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes of the discussion of any item on the agenda, or of any item of the testimony of any witness received at the meeting, except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony as the Director of Public Information determines may be withheld under § 375.204. Copies of such transcript, or minutes, or a transcription of such recording shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription.
(2) The determination of the Director of the Division of Public Information to withhold information pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section may be appealed to the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee, in accordance with § 388.107 of this chapter.
[45 FR 21217, Apr. 1, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 7825, Mar. 13, 1987]

# Subpart C—Delegations
§ 375.301
Purpose and subdelegations.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to set forth the authorities that the Commission has delegated to staff officials. Any action by a staff official under the authority of this subpart may be appealed to the Commission in accordance with § 385.1902 of this chapter.
(b) Where the Commission, in delegating functions to specified Commission officials, permits an official to further delegate those functions to a designee of such official,
designee
shall mean the deputy of such official, the head of a division, or a comparable official as designated by the official to whom the direct delegation is made.
(c) For purposes of Subpart C,
uncontested
and
in uncontested cases
mean that no motion to intervene, or notice of intervention, in opposition to the pending matter made under § 385.214 (intervention) has been received by the Commission.
[Order 112, 45 FR 79025, Nov. 28, 1980, as amended by Order 225, 47 FR 19058, May 3, 1982; Order 492, 53 FR 16062, May 5, 1988]
§ 375.302
Delegations to the Secretary.
The Commission authorizes the Secretary, or the Secretary's designee to:
(a) Sign official general correspondence on behalf of the Commission, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(b) Prescribe, for good cause, a different time than that required by the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure or Commission order for filing by public utilities, licensees, natural gas companies, and other persons of answers to complaints, petitions, motions, and other documents.
(c) Schedule hearings and issue notices thereof.
(d) Accept for filing notices of intervention and petitions to intervene by commissions and agencies of the States and the Federal government.
(e) Pass upon motions to intervene before a presiding administrative law judge is designated. If a presiding administrative law judge has been designated, the provisions of § 385.504(b)(12) of this chapter are controlling.
(f) Deny motions for extensions of time (other than motions made while a proceeding is pending before a presiding officer as defined in § 385.102(e)), except that such motions may be granted in accordance with § 385.2008 of this chapter.
(g) Reject any documents filed later than the time prescribed by an order or rule of the Commission, except that such documents may be accepted in accordance with § 385.2008 of this chapter.
(h) Reject any documents filed that do not meet the requirements of the Commission's rules which govern matters of form, except that such documents may be accepted in accordance with § 385.2001 of this chapter for good cause shown.
(i) Waive requirements of the Commission's rules which govern matters of form, when consistent with the public interest in a particular case.
(j) Pass upon, in contested proceedings, questions of extending time for electric public utilities, licensees,
natural gas companies, and other persons to file required reports, data, and information and to do other acts required to be done at or within a specific time by any rule, regulation, license, permit, certificate, or order of the Commission.
(k) Accept service of process on behalf of the Commission.
(l) Accept for filing bonds or agreements and undertakings submitted in rate suspension proceedings.
(m) Issue notices or orders instituting procedures to be followed concerning contested audit issues under part 41 or 158 of this chapter either when the utility:
(1) Initially notifies the Commission that it requests disposition of a contested issue pursuant to § 41.7 or 158.7 of this chapter; or
(2) Requests disposition of a contested issue pursuant to the shortened procedures provided in § 41.3 or 158.3 of this chapter.
(n) Publish notice of land withdrawals under section 24 of the Federal Power Act.
(o) Issue notices of applications filed under the Federal Power Act and the Natural Gas Act, fixing the time for filing comments, protests or petitions to intervene and schedule hearings on such applications when appropriate or required by law.
(p) Accept for filing amendments to agreements and contracts or rate schedules submitted in compliance with Commission orders accepting offers of rate settlements if such filings are in satisfactory compliance with such orders.
(q) Grant authorizations, pursuant to the provisions of § 35.1(a) of this chapter for a designated representative to post and file rate schedules of public utilities which are parties to the same rate schedule.
(r) Redesignate proceedings, licenses, certificates, rate schedules, and other authorizations and filing to reflect changes in the names of persons and municipalities subject to or invoking Commission jurisdiction under the Federal Power Act or the Natural Gas Act, where no substantive changes in ownership, corporate structure or domicile, or jurisdictional operation are involved.
(s) Change the appropriate hydroelectric project license article upon application by the licensee to reflect the specified reasonable rate of return as provided in § 2.15 of this chapter.
(t) Reject without prejudice all requests for rehearing and requests for modification of a proposed order issued in a proceeding under section 210 or section 211 of the Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. 824i, 824j.
(u) Reject without prejudice all motions for clarification that are combined with requests for rehearing and/or requests for modification of a proposed order issued in a proceeding under section 210 or section 211 of the Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. 824i, 824j.
(v) Toll the time for action on requests for rehearing, and toll the time for action on protested self-certifications and self-recertifications of qualifying facilities.
(w) Issue notices in compliance with section 206(b) of the Federal Power Act.
(x) Issue instructions for electronic registration pursuant to, grant applications for waivers of the requirements of, and make determinations regarding exemptions from 18 CFR part 390.
(y) Direct the staff of the Dispute Resolution Service (DRS) to contact the parties in a complaint proceeding and establish a date by which DRS must report to the Commission whether a dispute resolution process to address the complaint will be pursued by the parties.
(z) Issue instructions pertaining to allowable electronic file and document formats, the filing of complex documents, whether paper copies are required, and procedural guidelines for submissions via the Internet, on electronic media or via other electronic means.
(aa) Issue a notice that the Commission will not further review on its own motion a Notice of Penalty filed under Section 215(e) of the Federal Power Act.
[43 FR 36435, Aug. 17, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 375.302, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 375.303
Delegations to the Director of the Office of Electric Reliability.
The Commission authorizes the Director or the Director's designee to:
(a)
Program-Specific Delegated Authority:
Take the following actions with respect to the following programs:
(1)
Section 206 of the Public Utility Regulatory Policy Act of 1978 and corresponding Section 202(g) of the Federal Power Act.
(i) Accept for filing all uncontested contingency plans regarding shortages of electric energy or capacity, circumstances which may result in such shortages, and accommodations of any such shortages or circumstances, if said contingency plans comply with all applicable statutory requirements, and with all applicable Commission rules, regulations and orders for which waivers have not been granted, or if waivers have been granted by the Commission, if the filings comply with the terms of the waivers;
(ii) Reject a contingency plan regarding shortages of electric energy or capacity, unless accompanied by a request for waiver in conformity with § 385.2001 of this chapter, if it fails patently to comply with applicable statutory requirements and with all applicable Commission rules, regulations and orders;
(iii) Sign and issue deficiency letters;
(iv) Act on any request or petition for waiver, consistent with Commission policy.
(2)
Section 215 of the Federal Power Act.
(i) Approve uncontested applications.
(ii) Reject an application, unless accompanied by a request for waiver in conformity with § 385.2001 of this chapter, if it fails patently to comply with applicable statutory requirements or with all applicable Commission rules, regulations or orders;
(iii) Act on any request or petition for waiver, consistent with Commission policy;
(iv) Sign and issue deficiency letters; and
(v) Direct the Electric Reliability Organization, Regional Entities, or users, owners, and operators of the Bulk-Power System within the United States (not including Alaska and Hawaii) to provide such information as is necessary to implement Section 215 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 824o) pursuant to §§ 39.2(d) and 39.11 and Part 40 of this chapter.
(vi) Issue an order extending the period of time for consideration of a Notice of Penalty filed under Section 215(e) of the Federal Power Act for the purpose of directing the Electric Reliability Organization or the applicable Regional Entity to provide such information as is necessary to implement Section 215(e)(2) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 824o(e)(2)) pursuant to § 39.2 and Part 40 of this chapter.
(b)
Non-Program-Specific Delegated Authority:
(1) Take appropriate action on:
(i) Any notice of intervention or motion to intervene filed in an uncontested proceeding processed by the Office of Electric Reliability; and
(ii) Applications for extensions of time to file required filings, reports, data and information and to perform other acts required at or within a specific time by any rule, regulation, license, permit, certificate, or order by the Commission.
(2) Take appropriate action on requests or petitions for waivers of filing requirements for the appropriate statements and reports processed by the Office of Electric Reliability pursuant to §§ 141.51 and 141.300 of this chapter; and
(3) Undertake the following actions:
(i) Issue reports for public information purposes. Any report issued without Commission approval must:
(A) Be of a noncontroversial nature, and
(B) Contain the statement, “This report does not necessarily reflect the views of the Commission,” in bold face type on the cover;
(ii) Upon request or otherwise, issue staff position papers to further the Electric Reliability Organization and Regional Entity reliability standard development process. Any such staff position paper issued without Commission approval must contain the statement, “This position paper does not necessarily reflect the views of the Commission,” in bold face type on the cover;
(iii) Issue and sign requests for additional information regarding applications, filings, reports and data processed by the Office of Electric Reliability.
(iv) Accept for filing, data and reports required by Commission regulations, rules or orders, or presiding officers' initial decisions upon which the Commission has taken no further action, if such filings are in compliance with such regulations, rules, orders or decisions and, when appropriate, notify the filing party of such acceptance.
[Order 701, 72 FR 61054, Oct. 29, 2007, by Order 721, redesignated at 74 FR 6541, Feb. 10, 2009; Order 766, 77 FR 59747, Oct. 1, 2012; Order 795, 79 FR 9403, Feb. 19, 2014]
§ 375.304
Delegations to the Chief Administrative Law Judge.
(a) The Commission authorizes the Chief Administrative Law Judge and the Administrative Law Judge designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge to exercise the power granted to a Presiding Officer by part 385, particularly § 385.504 of this chapter.
(b) The Commission authorizes the Chief Administrative Law Judge to
(1) For those proceedings pending under subpart E of part 385 of this chapter:
(i) Consolidate for hearing two or more proceedings on any or all issues,
(ii) Sever two or more proceedings or issues in a proceeding,
(iii) Designate and substitute presiding officers, and
(iv) Extend any close or record date ordered by the Commission in a proceeding for good cause, and
(v) Set or extend procedural time standards, including but not limited to hearing, briefing and initial decision dates, including dates set by the Commission, unless the Commission states otherwise in its hearing order.
(2) For proceedings under subparts I and J of part 385 of this chapter, designate presiding officers who will have all the authorities and duties vested in presiding officers by those rules and other applicable rules in conducting proceedings pursuant to sections 503(c) and 504(b)(1) of the Department of Energy Organization Act, 42 U.S.C. 7193(c) and 7194(b)(1) (1982).
(3) Deny or grant, in whole or in part, petitions for waivers of fees prescribed in §§ 381.303 and 381.304 of this chapter in accordance with § 381.106 of this chapter.
(c) The Commission authorizes the Chief Administrative Law Judge, and the Administrative Law Judge designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge to serve as a settlement judge for a proceeding, to certify to the Commission uncontested offers of settlement.
[Order 492, 53 FR 16063, May 5, 1988, as amended by Order 629, 68 FR 6609, Feb. 10, 2003; Order 883, 87 FR 31730, May 25, 2022]
§ 375.305
Delegations to the Solicitor.
The Commission authorizes the Solicitor, or the Solicitor's designee to:
(a) File with the appropriate court of the United States a certified list of the materials comprising the record of any proceeding which involves the Commission;
(b) Retain appropriate materials; and
(c) Deliver such materials to the court as required.
[43 FR 36435, Aug. 17, 1978. Redesignated and amended at 45 FR 21224, 21225, Apr. 1, 1980; Order 112, 45 FR 79025, Nov. 28, 1980]
§ 375.307
Delegations to the Director of the Office of Energy Market Regulation.
The Commission authorizes the Director or the Director's designee to:
(a)
Program-Specific Delegated Authority:
Take the following actions with respect to the following programs:
(1)
Sections 205 and 206 of the Federal Power Act.
(i) Accept for filing all uncontested tariffs or rate schedules and uncontested tariff or rate schedule changes submitted by public utilities, including changes that would result in rate increases, if they comply with all applicable statutory requirements, and with all applicable Commission rules, regulations and orders for which waivers have not been granted, or if waivers have been granted by the Commission, if the filings comply with the terms of the waivers;
(ii) Reject a tariff or rate schedule filing, unless accompanied by a request for waiver in conformity with § 385.2001 of this chapter, if it fails patently to
comply with applicable statutory requirements and with all applicable Commission rules, regulations and orders;
(iii) Take appropriate action on requests or petitions for waivers of notice as provided in section 205(d) of the Federal Power Act, provided the requests conform to the requirements of § 385.2001 of this chapter;
(iv) Refer to the Chief Administrative Law Judge (Chief ALJ) for action by the Chief ALJ, with the Chief ALJ's concurrence, uncontested motions that would result in lower interim settlement rates, pending Commission action on settlement agreements;
(v) Sign and issue deficiency letters; and
(vi) Act on requests for authorization for a designated representative to post and file rate schedules of public utilities which are parties to the same rate schedules.
(2)
Other sections of the Federal Power Act.
(i) Pass upon any uncontested application for authorization to issue securities or to assume obligations and liabilities filed by public utilities and licensees pursuant to Part 34 of this chapter;
(ii) Take appropriate action on uncontested applications for the sale or lease or other disposition of facilities, merger or consolidation of facilities, purchase or acquisition or taking of securities of a public utility, or purchase or lease or acquisition of an existing generation facility under section 203 of the Federal Power Act;
(iii) Take appropriate action on uncontested applications for interlocking positions under section 305(b) of the Federal Power Act; and
(iv) Sign and issue deficiency letters for filings under Federal Power Act sections 203, 204, 215, and 305(b).
(v) Take appropriate action on uncontested Electric Reliability Organization budget, business plan, and special assessment filings made pursuant to § 39.4 of this chapter.
(vi) Take appropriate action on uncontested filings proposing Electric Reliability Organization or Regional Entity organization rules or rule changes made pursuant to § 39.10 of this chapter.
(vii) Take appropriate action on uncontested delegation agreement filings by the Electric Reliability Organization or Regional Entity made pursuant to section 39.8 of this chapter.
(3)
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005.
Take appropriate action on:
(i) Uncontested FERC-65A (exemption notification) filings;
(ii) Uncontested FERC-65B (waiver notification) filings; and
(iii) Uncontested applications under section 1275(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and/or the Federal Power Act to allocate service company costs to members of a holding company system.
(4)
Federal Power Marketing Administration Filings.
Approve uncontested rates and rate schedules filed by the Secretary of Energy or his designee, for power developed at projects owned and operated by the federal government and for services provided by federal power marketing agencies.
(5)
Section 210(m) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978.
(i) Approve uncontested applications;
(ii) Reject an application, unless accompanied by a request for waiver in conformity with § 385.2001 of this chapter, if it fails patently to comply with applicable statutory requirements or with all applicable Commission rules, regulations and orders;
(iii) Act on any request or petition for waiver, consistent with Commission policy; and
(iv) Sign and issue deficiency letters.
(6)
Other sections of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978.
Take appropriate action on:
(i) Filings related to uncontested nonexempt qualifying small power production facilities;
(ii) Uncontested applications for certification of qualifying status for small power production and cogeneration facilities under § 292.207 of this chapter;
(iii) Requests or petitions for waivers of the requirements of subpart C of Part 292 of this chapter governing cogeneration and small power production facilities made by any state regulatory authority or nonregulated electric utility pursuant to § 292.402 of this chapter;
(iv) Requests or petitions for waivers of the Commission's regulations under
the Federal Power Act related to nonexempt qualifying small power production facilities and related authorizations consistent with
Massachusetts Refusetech, Inc.,
31 FERC ¶ 61,048 (1985), and the orders cited therein without limitation as to whether qualifying status is by Commission certification or notice of qualifying status, provided that, in the case of a notice of qualifying status, any waiver is granted on condition that the filing party has correctly noticed the facility as a qualifying facility; and
(v) Requests or petitions for waivers of the technical requirements applicable to qualifying small power production facilities and qualifying cogeneration facilities.
(7)
Sections 4 and 5 of the Natural Gas Act.
(i) Accept for filing all uncontested tariffs or rate schedules and uncontested tariff or rate schedule changes, except major pipeline rate increases under section 4(e) of the Natural Gas Act and under subpart D of Part 154 of this chapter, if they comply with all applicable statutory requirements, and with all applicable Commission rules, regulations and orders for which waivers have not been granted, or if waivers have been granted by the Commission, if the filings comply with the terms of the waivers;
(ii) Accept for filing all uncontested tariff or rate schedules changes made in compliance with Commission orders;
(iii) Reject a tariff or rate schedule filing, unless accompanied by a request for waiver in conformity with § 385.2001 of this chapter, if it patently fails to comply with applicable statutory requirements and with all applicable Commission rules, regulations and orders;
(iv) Take appropriate action on requests or petitions for waiver of notice as provided in section 4(d) of the Natural Gas Act, provided the request conforms to the requirements of § 385.2001 of this chapter; and
(v) Refer to the Chief Administrative Law Judge (Chief ALJ) for action by the Chief ALJ, with the Chief ALJ's concurrence, uncontested motions that would result in lower interim settlement rates, pending Commission action on settlement agreements.
(8)
Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act.
Take appropriate action on the following types of uncontested applications for authorizations and uncontested amendments to applications and authorizations filed pursuant to section 7 of the Natural Gas Act and impose appropriate conditions:
(i) Applications by a pipeline for the deletion of delivery points but not facilities;
(ii) Applications to abandon pipeline services, but not facilities, involving a specific customer or customers, if such customer or customers have agreed to the abandonment;
(iii) Applications for temporary or permanent certificates (and for amendments thereto) for services, but not facilities, in connection with the transportation;
(iv) Blanket certificate applications by interstate pipelines and local distribution companies served by interstate pipelines filed pursuant to §§ 284.221 and 284.224 of this chapter;
(v) Applications for temporary certificates involving transportation service or sales, but not facilities, pursuant to § 157.17 of this chapter;
(vi) Dismiss any protest to prior notice filings involving existing service, made pursuant to § 157.205 of this chapter, that does not raise a substantive issue and fails to provide any specific detailed reason or rationale for the objection;
(vii) Applications pertaining to approval of changes in customer names where there is no change in rate schedule, rate, or other incident of service;
(viii) Applications for approval of customer rate schedule shifts;
(ix) Applications filed under section 1(c) of the Natural Gas Act and Part 152 of this chapter, for declaration of exemption from the provisions of the Natural Gas Act and certificates held by the applicant;
(x) Applications and amendments requesting authorizations filed pursuant to section 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act for new or additional service through existing facilities to right-of-way grantors either directly or through distributors, where partial consideration for the granting of the rights-of-way was the receipt of gas service pursuant to section 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act;
(xi) An uncontested request from the holder of an authorization, granted pursuant to the Director's delegated authority, to vacate all or part of such authorization; and
(xii) Sign and issue deficiency letters.
(9)
Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978.
(i) Notify jurisdictional agencies within 45 days after the date on which the Commission receives notice of a determination pursuant to § 270.502(b) of this chapter that the notice is incomplete under § 270.204 of this chapter;
(ii) Issue preliminary findings under § 270.502(a)(1) of this chapter;
(iii) Accept any uncontested item that has been filed under § 284.123 of this chapter consistent with Commission regulations and policy;
(iv) Reject an application filed pursuant to § 284.123 of this chapter, unless accompanied by a request for waiver in conformity with § 385.2001 of this chapter, if it fails patently to comply with applicable statutory requirements or Commission rules, regulations and orders; and
(v) Take appropriate action on petitions to permit after an initial 60-day period one additional 60-day period of exemption pursuant to § 284.264(b) of this chapter where the application for extension arrives at the Commission no later than 45 days after the commencement of the initial period of exemption and where only services are involved.
(10)
Regulation of Oil Pipelines Under the Interstate Commerce Act.
(i) Accept any uncontested item that has been filed consistent with Commission regulations and policy;
(ii) Reject any filing, unless accompanied by a request for waiver in conformity with § 385.2001 of this chapter, that patently fails to comply with applicable statutory requirements and with all applicable Commission rules, regulations and orders; and
(iii) Prescribe for carriers the classes of property for which depreciation charges may be properly included under operating expenses, review the fully documented depreciation studies filed by the carriers, and authorize or revise the depreciation rates reflected in the depreciation study with respect to each of the designated classes of property.
(b)
General, Non-Program-Specific Delegated Authority.
(1) Take appropriate action on:
(i) Any notice of intervention or motion to intervene, filed in an uncontested proceeding processed by the Office of Energy Market Regulation;
(ii) Applications for extensions of time to file required filings, reports, data and information and to perform other acts required at or within a specific time by any rule, regulation, license, permit, certificate, or order by the Commission; and
(iii) Filings for administrative revisions to electronic filed tariffs.
(2) Take appropriate action on requests or petitions for waivers of:
(i) Filing requirements for the appropriate statements and reports processed by the Office of Energy Market Regulation under Parts 46, 141, 260 and 357 of this chapter, §§ 284.13 and 284.126 of this chapter, and other relevant Commission orders; and
(ii) Fees prescribed in §§ 381.403 and 381.505 of this chapter in accordance with § 381.106(b) of this chapter.
(3) Undertake the following actions:
(i) Issue reports for public information purposes. Any report issued without Commission approval must:
(A) Be of a noncontroversial nature, and
(B) Contain the statement, “This report does not necessarily reflect the views of the Commission,” in bold face type on the cover;
(ii) Issue and sign requests for additional information regarding applications, filings, reports and data processed by the Office of Energy Market Regulation; and
(iii) Accept for filing, data and reports required by Commission regulations, rules or orders, or presiding officers' initial decisions upon which the Commission has taken no further action, if such filings are in compliance with such regulations, rules, orders or decisions and, when appropriate, notify the filing party of such acceptance.
[Order 699, 72 FR 45326, Aug. 14, 2007, as amended by Order 701, 72 FR 61054, Oct. 29, 2007; Order 714, 73 FR 57537, Oct. 3, 2008; Order 766, 77 FR 59747, Oct. 1, 2012]
§ 375.308
Delegations to the Director of the Office of Energy Projects.
The Commission authorizes the Director or the Director's designee to:
(a) Take appropriate action on uncontested applications and on applications for which the only motion or notice of intervention in opposition is filed by a competing preliminary permit or exemption applicant that does not propose and substantiate materially different plans to develop, conserve, and utilize the water resources of the region for the following:
(1) Licenses (including original, new, and transmission line licenses) under part I of the Federal Power Act;
(2) Exemptions from all or part of the licensing requirements of part I of the Federal Power Act; and
(3) Preliminary permits for proposed projects.
(b) Take appropriate action on uncontested applications for:
(1) Amendments (including changes in the use or disposal of water power project lands or waters or in the boundaries of water power projects) to licenses (including original, new, and transmission line licenses) under part I of the Federal Power Act, exemptions from all or part of the requirements of part I of the Federal Power Act, and preliminary permits; and
(2) Surrenders of licenses (including original and new), exemptions, and preliminary permits.
(c) Take appropriate action on the following:
(1) Determinations or vacations with respect to lands of the United States reserved from entry, location, or other disposal under section 24 of the Federal Power Act;
(2) Transfer of a license under section 8 of the Federal Power Act;
(3) Applications for the surrender of transmission line licenses pursuant to part 6 of this chapter;
(4) Motions filed by licensees, permittees, exemptees, applicants, and others requesting an extension of time to file required submittals, reports, data, and information and to do other acts required to be done at or within a specific time period by any rule, regulation, license, exemption, permit, notice, letter, or order of the Commission in accordance with § 385.2008 of this chapter;
(5) Declarations of intent and petitions for declaratory orders concerning the Commission's jurisdiction over a hydropower project under the Federal Power Act;
(6) New or revised exhibits, studies, plans, reports, maps, drawings, or specifications, or other such filings made voluntarily or in response to a term or condition in a preliminary permit, license, or exemption issued for a hydropower project, or in response to the requirements of an order of the Commission or presiding officer's initial decision concerning a hydropower project;
(7) Requests by applicants to withdraw, pursuant to § 385.216 of this chapter, any pleadings under part I of the Federal Power Act and any pleadings related to exemptions from all or part of part I of the Federal Power Act;
(8) Requests by licensees for exemption from:
(i) The requirement of filing FERC Form No. 80, Licensed Projects Recreation, under § 8.11 of this chapter; and
(ii) The fees prescribed in § 381.302(a) of this chapter in accordance with § 381.302(c) of this chapter and the fees in § 381.601 of this chapter, in accordance with § 381.106 of this chapter;
(9) Requests for waivers incidental to the exercise of delegated authority provided the request conforms to the requirements of § 385.2001 of this chapter;
(10) Proposals for the development of water resources projects submitted by other agencies of the Federal government for Commission review or comment. The Director shall direct comments, when necessary, to the sponsoring agency on matters including, but not limited to, the need for, and appropriate size of, any hydroelectric power installation proposed by any other agency of the Federal government;
(11) The reasonableness of disputed agency cost statements pursuant to § 4.303(e) of this chapter.
(d) Issue an order pursuant to section 5 of the Federal Power Act to cancel a preliminary permit if the permittee fails to comply with the specific terms and conditions of the permit; provided:
(1) The Director gives notice to the permittee of probable cancellation no
less than 30 days prior to the issuance of the cancellation order, and
(2) The permittee does not oppose the issuance of the cancellation order.
(e) Issue an order to revoke an exemption of a small conduit hydroelectric facility from the licensing provisions of part I of the Federal Power Act granted pursuant to § 4.93 of this chapter, or an exemption of a small hydroelectric power project from the licensing provisions of part I of the Federal Power Act granted pursuant to § 4.105 of this chapter if the exemption holder fails to begin or complete actual construction of the exempted facility or project within the time specified in the order granting the exemption or in Commission regulations at § 4.94(c) or § 4.106(c) of this chapter, provided:
(1) The Director gives notice to the exemption holder by certified mail of probable revocation no less than 30 days prior to the issuance of the revocation order, and
(2) The holder of the exemption does not oppose the issuance of the revocation order.
(f) Issue an order pursuant to section 13 of the Federal Power Act to terminate a license granted under part I of the Federal Power Act if the licensee fails to commence actual construction of the project works within the time prescribed in the license, provided:
(1) The Director gives notice by certified mail to the licensee of probable termination no less than 30 days prior to the issuance of the termination order, and
(2) The licensee does not oppose the issuance of the termination order.
(g) Require licensees and applicants for water power projects to make repairs to project works, take any related actions for the purpose of maintaining the safety and adequacy of such works, make or modify emergency action plans, have inspections by independent consultants, and perform other actions necessary to comply with part 12 of this chapter or otherwise protect human life, health, property, or the environment.
(h) For any unlicensed or unexempted hydropower project, take the following actions:
(1) Conduct investigations to ascertain the Commission's jurisdiction,
(2) Make preliminary jurisdictional determinations, and
(3) If a project has been preliminarily determined to require a license, issue notification of the Commission's jurisdiction; require the filing of a license application; and require that actions necessary to comply with part 12 of this chapter or otherwise protect human life, health, property, or the environment are taken.
(i) Take appropriate action on uncontested settlements among non-Federal parties involving headwater benefits.
(j) Dismiss applications for licenses and approve the withdrawal of applications for hydropower project licenses, in instances where no petition for or notice of intervention contending that licensing is required under part I of the Federal Power Act has been filed and the Director determines that licensing is not required by such Part I.
(k) Reject or dismiss an application filed under Part I of the Federal Power Act or an application for an exemption from some or all of the requirements of Part I of the Federal Power Act if:
(1) An application is patently deficient under § 4.32(e)(2)(i);
(2) A revised application
(i) Does not conform to the requirements of §§ 4.32(a), 4.32(b), or 4.38, under § 4.32(d)(1) or
(ii) If revisions to an application are not timely submitted under § 4.32(e)(1)(iii); or
(3) The applicant fails to provide timely additional information, documents, or copies of submitted materials under § 4.32(g).
(l) Redesignate proceedings, licenses, and other authorizations and filings to reflect changes in the names of persons and municipalities subject to or invoking Commission jurisdiction under the Federal Power Act, where no substantive changes in ownership, corporate structure or domicile, or jurisdictional operation are involved.
(m) Determine payments for headwater benefits from the operation of Federal reservoir projects.
(n) Determine whether to allow a credit against annual charges for the use of government dams or other structures billed to licensees each year for
contractual payments for the construction, operation, and maintenance of a Federal dam.
(o) Prepare and issue comments on general water policy and planning issues for the use of the Director of the Water Resources Council or the Assistant Secretaries of the Department of Energy.
(p) Prepare and transmit letters concerning power site lands to the Bureau of Land Management and the U.S. Geological Survey; respond to routine requests for information and any non-docketed correspondence; prepare and transmit letters requesting comments or additional information on applications for hydropower project licenses, preliminary permits, exemptions, amendments of licenses, permits, or exemptions, and other similar matters from Federal, state, and local agencies, from applicants, and from other appropriate persons; and prepare and transmit letters regarding whether transmission lines are works of a hydropower project and are required to be licensed.
(q) Reject an application or other filing under Section 405 of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, unless accompanied by a request for waiver in conformity with § 385.2001 of this chapter, if it fails patently to comply with applicable statutory requirements or Commission rules, regulations, and orders.
(r) Pass upon petitions filed under §§ 292.210 and 292.211 of this chapter.
(s) Make any preliminary determination of inconsistency between a fish and wildlife agency's fish and wildlife recommendation and applicable law, and conduct through staff whatever consultation with the agency that is necessary or appropriate in order to attempt to resolve any inconsistency, under section 10(j) of the Federal Power Act, and to take such related actions as are required under that section.
(t) Waive the pre-filing consultation requirements in §§ 4.38 and 16.8 of this title whenever the Director, in his discretion, determines that an emergency so requires, or that the potential benefit of expeditiously considering a proposed improvement in safety, environmental protection, efficiency, or capacity outweighs the potential benefit of requiring completion of the consultation process prior to the filing of an application.
(u) Approve, on a case-specific basis, and issue such orders as may be necessary in connection with the use of alternative procedures, under § 4.34(i) of this chapter, for the development of an application for an original, new or subsequent license, exemption, or license amendment subject to the pre-filing consultation process, and assist in the pre-filing consultation and related processes.
(v) Take appropriate action on the following types of uncontested applications for authorizations and uncontested amendments to applications and authorizations and impose appropriate conditions:
(1) Applications or amendments requesting authorization for the construction or acquisition and operation of facilities that have a construction or acquisition cost less than the limits specified in column 2 of table I in § 157.208(d) of this chapter;
(2) Applications by a pipeline for the abandonment of pipeline facilities;
(3) Applications for temporary certificates for facilities pursuant to § 157.17 of this chapter;
(4) Petitions to amend certificates to conform to actual construction;
(5) Applications for temporary certificates for facilities pursuant to § 157.17 of this chapter;
(6) Dismiss any protest to prior notice filings made pursuant to § 157.205 of this chapter and involving pipeline facilities that does not raise a substantive issue and fails to provide any specific detailed reason or rationale for the objection;
(7) Applications for temporary or permanent certificates (and for amendments thereto) for the transportation, exchange or storage of natural gas, provided that the cost of construction of the applicant's related facility is less than the limits specified in column 2 of table 1 in § 157.208(d) of this chapter; and
(8) Applications for blanket certificates of public convenience and necessity pursuant to subpart F of part 157 of this chapter, including waiver of project cost limitations in §§ 157.208 and
157.215 of this chapter, and the convening of informal conferences during the 30-day reconciliation period pursuant to the procedures in § 157.205(f).
(w) Take appropriate action on the following:
(1) Any notice of intervention or petition to intervene, filed in an uncontested application for pipeline facilities;
(2) An uncontested request from one holding an authorization, granted pursuant to the Director's delegated authority, to vacate all or part of such authorization;
(3) Petitions to permit after an initial 60-day period one additional 60-day period of exemption pursuant to § 284.264(b) of this chapter where the application or extension arrives at the Commission later than 45 days after the commencement of the initial period of exemption when the emergency requires installation of facilities;
(4) Applications for extensions of time to file required reports, data, and information and to perform other acts required at or within a specific time by any rule, regulation, license, permit, certificate, or order by the Commission; and
(5) Requests for waiver of the landowner notification requirements in § 157.203(d) of this chapter.
(x) Undertake the following actions:
(1) Compute, for each calendar year, the project limits specified in table I of § 157.208 and table II of § 157.215(a) of this chapter, adjusted for inflation, and publish such limits as soon as possible thereafter in the
Federal Register
;
(2) Issue reports for public information purposes. Any report issued without Commission approval must:
(i) Be of a noncontroversial nature, and
(ii) Contain the statement, “This report does not necessarily reflect the view of the Commission,” in bold face type on the cover;
(3) Issue and sign deficiency letters regarding natural gas applications;
(4) Accept for filing, data and reports required by Commission orders, or presiding officers' initial decisions upon which the Commission has taken no further action, if such filings are in compliance with such orders or decisions and, when appropriate, notify the filing party of such acceptance;
(5) Reject requests which patently fail to comply with the provisions of 157.205(b) of this chapter;
(6) Take appropriate action on requests or petitions for waivers of any action incidental to the exercise of delegated authority, including waiver of notice as provided in section 4(d) of the Natural Gas Act, provided the request conforms to the requirements of § 385.2001 of this chapter; and
(7) Take whatever steps are necessary to ensure the protection of all environmental resources during the construction or operation of natural gas facilities, including authority to design and implement additional or alternative measures and stop work authority.
(y) Take appropriate action on the following:
(1) Any action incidental to the exercise of delegated authority, including waiver of notice as provided in section 4(d) of the Natural Gas Act, provided the request conforms to the requirements of § 385.2001 of this chapter; and
(2) Requests or petitions for waivers of filing requirements for statements and reports under §§ 260.8 and 260.9 of this chapter.
(z) Approve, on a case-specific basis, and make such decisions and issue guidance as may be necessary in connection with the use of the pre-filing procedures in § 157.21, “ Pre-filing procedures and review process for LNG terminal facilities and other natural gas facilities prior to filing of applications.”
(aa) Take the following actions to implement part 5 of this chapter on or after October 23, 2003:
(1) Act on requests for approval to use the application procedures of parts 4 or 16, pursuant to § 5.3 of this chapter;
(2) Approve a potential license applicant's proposed study plan with appropriate modifications pursuant to § 5.13 of this chapter;
(3) Resolve formal study disputes pursuant to § 5.14 of this chapter; and
(4) Resolve disagreements brought pursuant to § 5.15 of this chapter.
(bb) Establish a schedule for each Federal agency or officer, or State agency or officer acting pursuant to delegated Federal authority, to issue
or deny Federal authorizations required for natural gas projects subject to section 3 or 7 of the Natural Gas Act.
[Order 492, 53 FR 16065, May 5, 1988]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 375.308, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 375.309
Delegations to the General Counsel.
The Commission authorizes the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee to:
(a) Designate officers empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance and testimony, take evidence, compel the filing of special reports and interrogatories, gather information, and require the production of any books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, contracts, agreements, or other records, in the course of formal investigations conducted by the Office of the General Counsel to the extent the Commission's order of investigation expressly provides for the exercise of such investigative powers.
(b) Grant or deny requests of persons pursuant to § 1b.12 of this chapter to procure copies of the transcripts of their testimony taken during non-public investigations conducted by the Office of the General Counsel.
(c) Terminate any informal non-public investigation conducted by the Office of the General Counsel.
(d) Terminate the authority of officers to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance and testimony, take evidence, compel the filing of special reports and interrogatories, gather information, and require the production of any books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, contracts, agreements or other records in the course of formal investigations conducted by the Office of the General Counsel.
(e) Designate presiding officers for proceedings under § 385.1110, who will have all the authorities and duties vested in presiding officers by that section and other applicable rules in conducting proceedings pursuant to section 502(c) of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, 15 U.S.C. 3301-3432 (1982).
(f) Deny or grant, in whole or in part, petitions for waivers of fees prescribed in § 381.305 of this chapter in accordance with § 381.106 of this chapter.
(g) Grant uncontested applications for exempt wholesale generator status that do not involve unusual or interpretation issues; to act on uncontested motions to withdraw such applications; and to act on uncontested amendments to applications for EWG status that do not present unusual or interpretation issues.
(h) Deny or grant, in whole or in part, an appeal of a determination by the CEII Coordinator.
(i) Deny or grant, in whole or in part, an appeal of a Freedom of Information Act determination by the Director of the Office of External Affairs.
[Order 38, 44 FR 46453, Aug. 8, 1979]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 375.309, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 375.310
Delegations during emergency conditions.
For delegations of Commission authority during emergency conditions, see subpart B of part 376 of this chapter.
[45 FR 21217, Apr. 1, 1980. Redesignated by Order 613, 64 FR 73407, Dec. 30, 1999]
§ 375.311
Delegations to the Director of the Office of Enforcement.
The Commission authorizes the Director or the Director's designee to:
(a) Request information for purposes of a preliminary investigation under Part 1b of this chapter, or for purposes of conducting market surveillance from an entity whose activities may affect energy markets, and from state or federal agencies that monitor or regulate such entities, whether or not subject to the Commission's jurisdiction.
(b) Designate, and terminate the authority of, officers empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance and testimony, take evidence, compel the filing of special reports and responses to interrogatories, gather information, and require the production
of any books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, contracts, agreements, or other records, in the course of formal investigations conducted by the Office of Enforcement, to the extent the Commission's order of investigation expressly provides for the exercise of such investigative powers.
(c) Grant or deny requests of persons pursuant to § 1b.12 of this chapter to procure copies of the transcripts of their testimony taken during non-public investigations conducted by the Office of Enforcement.
(d) Terminate any informal non-public investigation conducted by the Office of Enforcement.
(e) Issue reports for public information purposes. Any report issued without Commission approval must
(1) Be of a non-controversial nature, and
(2) Contain the statement, “This report does not necessarily reflect the view of the Commission,” in bold-face type on the cover.
(f) Deny or grant, in whole or in part, requests for waiver of the requirements for particular forms, including Electric Quarterly Reports required under § 35.10b of this chapter.
(g) Take appropriate action on applications for extensions of time to file required reports, data and information, and to perform other acts required at or within a specific time by any rule, regulation, license, permit, certificate, or by order of the Commission.
(h) Undertake the following action with respect to data and reports submitted pursuant to Commission opinions or orders:
(1) Accept for filing data and reports that are in compliance and, when appropriate, notify the filing party of such acceptance;
(2) Reject for filing any data and reports which are not in compliance or not required and, when appropriate, notify the filing party of such rejection, or
(3) Issue deficiency letters regarding such data or reports.
(i) Sign all correspondence on behalf of the Commission with state regulatory commissions and agencies in connection with auditing matters.
(j) Pass upon actual legitimate original cost and depreciation thereon and the net investment in jurisdictional companies and revisions thereof, and sign audit reports involving jurisdictional companies,
(1) If the company agrees with the audit report, or
(2) If the company does not agree with the audit report, provided that any notification of the opportunity for a hearing required under Section 301(a) of the Federal Power Act or Section 8(a) of the Natural Gas Act accompanies the audit report.
(k) Act upon requests by state and federal agencies to review staff audit working papers in connection with audits if the company agrees to the release of the audit working papers, and provided that:
(1) The papers are examined at the Commission; and
(2) The requester
(i) Only makes general notes concerning the contents of the audit working papers,
(ii) Does not make copies of the audit working papers, and
(iii) Does not remove the audit working papers from the area designated by the Director.
(l) With regard to billing errors noted as a result of the Commission staff's examination of automatic adjustment tariffs approved by the Commission, approve corrective measures, including recomputation of billings and refunds, to the extent the company agrees.
(m) Sign all correspondence with respect to financial accounting and reporting matters on behalf of the Commission.
(n) Pass upon actual legitimate original cost and depreciation thereon and the net investment in jurisdictional companies and revisions thereof.
(o) Issue interpretations of the Uniform Systems of Accounts for public utilities and licensees, centralized service companies, natural gas companies and oil pipeline companies.
(p) Pass upon any proposed accounting matters submitted by or on behalf of jurisdictional companies that require Commission approval under the Uniform Systems of Accounts, except
that if the proposed accounting matters involve unusually large transactions or unique or controversial features, the Director of the Office of Enforcement must present the matters to the Commission for consideration.
(q) Pass upon applications to increase the size or combine property units of jurisdictional companies.
(r) Deny or grant, in whole or in part, motions for extension of time to file, or requests for waiver of the requirements of the following forms, data collections, and reports: Annual Reports (Form Nos. 1, 1-F, 2, 2-A, and 6); Quarterly Reports (Form Nos. 3-Q and 6-Q); Annual Report of Centralized Service Companies (Form No. 60); Narrative Description of Service Company Functions (FERC-61); and Electric Quarterly Reports, as well as, where required, the electronic filing of such information (§ 385.2011 of this chapter, Procedures for filing on electronic media, paragraphs (a)(6), (c), and (e)).
(s) Provide notification if a submitted Annual Report (Form Nos. 1, 1-F, 2, 2-A, and 6), Quarterly Report (Form Nos. 3-Q and 6-Q), Annual Report of Centralized Service Companies (Form No. 60), Narrative Description of Service Company Functions (FERC-61), or Electric Quarterly Report fails to comply with applicable statutory requirements, and with all applicable Commission rules, regulations, and orders for which a waiver has not been granted, or, when appropriate, notify a party that a submission is acceptable.
(t) Deny or grant, in whole or in part, requests for waiver of the requirements of parts 352, 356, 367 and 368 of this chapter, except that, if the matters involve unusually large transactions or unique or controversial features, the Director of the Office of Enforcement must present the matters to the Commission for consideration.
[Order 632, 68 FR 25816, May 14, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 64661, Nov. 8, 2004; Order 691, 72 FR 5174, Feb. 5, 2007. Redesignated at Order 699, 72 FR 45326, Aug. 14, 2007; Order 721, 74 FR 6541, Feb. 10, 2009; Order 728, 74 FR 57248, Nov. 5, 2009; Order 795, 79 FR 9404, Feb. 19, 2014; Order 820, 80 FR 81179, Dec. 29, 2015; Order 870, 85 FR 19386, Apr. 7, 2020]
§ 375.312
Delegations to the Office of the Executive Director.
The Commission authorizes the Executive Director or the Executive Director's designee to:
(a) Prescribe the updated fees for part 381 of this chapter in accordance with § 381.104 of this chapter.
(b) Prescribe the updated fees for part 381 of this chapter in accordance with § 388.109(b)(2) of this chapter.
(c) Deny or grant, in whole or in part, petitions for waiver of fees prescribed in § 381.302 of this chapter in accordance with § 381.106(b) of this chapter.
(d) Deny or grant, in whole or in part, petitions for exemption from fees prescribed in part 381 of this chapter in accordance with § 381.108 of this chapter.
(e) Determine the annual charges for administrative costs, for use of United States lands, and for use of government dams or other structures.
(f) Grant or deny waiver of penalty charges for late payment of annual charges.
(g) Give credit for overpayment of annual charges.
(h) Deny or grant, in whole or in part, petitions for exemption from annual charges under § 11.6 of this chapter for state and municipal licensees.
(i) Grant or deny petitions for waiver of annual charges for oil pipelines.
[Order 613, 64 FR 73407, Dec. 30, 1999, as amended by Order 632, 68 FR 25816, May 14, 2003; 69 FR 64661, Nov. 8, 2004]
§ 375.313
Delegations to the Critical Energy/Electric Infrastructure Information (CEII) Coordinator.
The Commission authorizes the Coordinator or the Coordinator's designee to:
(a) Receive and review all requests for CEII as defined in § 388.113(c) of this chapter.
(b) Make determinations as to whether particular information fits within the definition of CEII found at § 388.113(c) of this chapter, including designating information, as appropriate.
(c) Make determinations that information designated as CEII should no longer be so designated when the unauthorized disclosure of the information could no longer be used to impair the security or reliability of the bulk-
power system or distribution facilities or any other form of energy infrastructure.
(d) Make determinations as to whether a particular requester's need for and ability and willingness to protect CEII warrants limited disclosure of the information to the requester.
(e) Establish reasonable conditions on the release of CEII.
(f) Release CEII to requesters who satisfy the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section and agree in writing to abide by any conditions set forth by the Coordinator pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
[Order 630, 68 FR 9869, Mar. 3, 2003, as amended by Order 833, 81 FR 93748, Dec. 21, 2016]
§ 375.315
Delegations to the Director of the Office of Energy Policy and Innovation.
The Commission authorizes the Director or the Director's designee to:
(a) Take appropriate action on:
(1) Any notice of intervention or motion to intervene, filed in an uncontested proceeding processed by the Office of Energy Policy and Innovation;
(2) Applications or motions for extensions of time to file required filings, reports, data and information and to perform other acts required at or within a specific time by any rule, regulation, license, permit, certificate, or order by the Commission, including applications or motions for extensions of time to file the Annual Report of Natural Gas Transactions (FERC Form No. 552) and the Report of Transmission Investment Activity (FERC-730); and
(3) Requests or petitions for waiver of the requirements of the Annual Report of Natural Gas Transactions (FERC Form No. 552) and the Report of Transmission Investment Activity (FERC-730).
(4) Notification to a party if a submitted Annual Report of Natural Gas Transactions (FERC Form No. 552) or Report of Transmission Investment Activity (FERC-730) fails to comply with applicable statutory requirements, and with all applicable Commission rules, regulations, and orders for which a waiver has not been granted, or, when appropriate notify a party that a submission is acceptable.
(b) Undertake the following actions:
(1) Issue reports for public information purposes. Any report issued without Commission approval must:
(i) Be of a noncontroversial nature, and
(ii) Contain the statement, “This report does not necessarily reflect the views of the Commission,” in bold face type on the cover;
(2) Issue and sign requests for additional information regarding applications, filings, reports and data processed by the Office of Energy Policy and Innovation; and
(3) Accept for filing, data and reports required by Commission regulations, rules, or orders, or presiding officers' initial decisions upon which the Commission has taken no further action, if such filings are in compliance with such regulations, rules, orders or decisions and, when appropriate, notify the filing party of such acceptance.
[Order 736, 75 FR 32658, June 9, 2010, as amended by Order 870, 85 FR 19386, Apr. 7, 2020]
Pt. 376

# PART 376—ORGANIZATION, MISSION, AND FUNCTIONS; OPERATIONS DURING EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

# Subpart A—Organization, Mission, and Functions
Sec.
376.101
Purpose.
376.102
Organization.
376.103
Mission.
376.104
Functions.
376.105
Chairman.

# Subpart B—Commission Operation During Emergency Conditions
376.201
Emergency condition defined.
376.202
Authority to move Commission offices.
376.203
Mailing address of Commission during emergency conditions.
376.204
Delegation of Commission authority during emergency conditions.
376.205
Delegation of Chairman's authority during emergency conditions.
376.206
Delegation of functions of certain Commission staff members.
376.207
Personnel and fiscal functions.
376.208
Effect upon existing Commission requirements.
376.209
Continuity of Operations Plan and suspension of Commission operations.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 553; 42 U.S.C. 7101-7352; E.O. 12009, 3 CFR 1978 Comp., p. 142.

# Source:
45 FR 21222, Apr. 1, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Organization, Mission, and Functions
§ 376.101
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the organization, mission and functions of the Commission, and its offices and divisions.
§ 376.102
Organization.
The Commission is established as an independent regulatory Commission within the DOE by the DOE Act. The Commission is composed of five members appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. One of the members is designated by the President as the Chairman. To carry out its mission and functions, the Chairman has organized the Commission into a number of major offices, some of which are further organized into divisions and lower units. The organization of the Commission staff structure may be obtained from the Division of Public Information.
§ 376.103
Mission.
The Commission is responsible for developing, managing, and directing energy regulatory programs and activities assigned to it by statute, executive orders, or by the Secretary, DOE. The Chairman serves as the chief executive officer of the Commission and is responsible for the conduct of all Commission executive and administrative functions. In carrying out its mission, the Commission and its employees are not subject to the supervision or direction of any other official of DOE.
§ 376.104
Functions.
The functions of the Commission include:
(a) All functions vested in the Commission under the DOE Act;
(b) All functions delegated to the Commission by the Secretary of Energy in accordance with the DOE Act; and
(c) All functions vested in the Commission by statute.
§ 376.105
Chairman.
(a)
Administrative head of agency.
The Chairman is the administrative head of the Commission.
(b)
Administrative responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible on behalf of the Commission for the executive and administrative operation of the Commission, including functions of the Commission with respect to—
(1) The appointment and employment of Administrative Law Judges in accordance with the provisions of Title 5, United States Code.
(2) The selection, appointment, and fixing of the compensation of such personnel as he deems necessary.
(3) The supervision of personnel employed by or assigned to the Commission, except that each Commissioner may select and supervise personnel for his personal staff.
(4) The distribution of business among personnel and among administrative units of the Commission.
(5) The procurement of services of experts and consultants in accordance with section 3109 of Title 5, United States Code.
[45 FR 21222, Apr. 1, 1980, as amended by Order 613, 64 FR 73407, Dec. 30, 1999]

# Subpart B—Commission Operation During Emergency Conditions
§ 376.201
Emergency condition defined.
For purposes of this subpart, emergency conditions:
(a) Shall commence:
(1) At the time of an armed attack upon the United States, or its territories or possessions;
(2) At the time the Commission is officially notified of the likelihood or imminence of such an attack; or
(3) At a time specified by the authority of the President; or
(4) At such time that the Commission's Continuity of Operations Plan is activated; and
(b) Shall continue until the Commission is officially notified of the end of such conditions.
[45 FR 21222, Apr. 1, 1980, as amended by Order 680, 71 FR 42595, July 27, 2006]
§ 376.202
Authority to move Commission offices.
The Commission may provide for removal of its headquarters to any location in the United States for the duration of emergency conditions. Consistent with directives of the Chairman, the Commission officer or employee in charge of a regional office of the Commission may move such office to a new location in the United States for the duration of emergency conditions.
§ 376.203
Mailing address of Commission during emergency conditions.
The Chairman may direct that during the continuance of emergency conditions, communications, filings, reports, or other submittals to the Commission shall be addressed to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Official Mail and Messenger Service, United States Postal Service to such or other address as the Commission may designate.
§ 376.204
Delegation of Commission authority during emergency conditions.
(a)
Delegation of authority to one or two Commissioners.
During emergency conditions, the Commission shall function as usual, if a quorum of the Commission is available and capable of acting. If by reason of such conditions a quorum of the Commission is not available and capable of acting, all functions of the Commission are delegated to the Commissioner or Commissioners who are available and capable of acting.
(b)
Delegation of authority to Commission staff.
(1) When, by reason of emergency conditions, there is no Commissioner available and capable of acting, the functions of the Commission are delegated to the first seven members of the Commission staff on the list set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section who are available and capable of acting.
(2) The list referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is:
(i) General Counsel;
(ii) Executive Director;
(iii) Director of the Office of Energy Market Regulation;
(iv) Director of the Office of Energy Projects;
(v) Director of the Office of Electric Reliability;
(vi) Director of the Office of Enforcement;
(vii) Director of the Office of Energy Infrastructure Security;
(viii) Deputy General Counsels, in order of seniority;
(ix) Deputy Directors, Office of Energy Market Regulation, in order of seniority;
(x) Deputy Directors, Office of Energy Projects, in order of seniority;
(xi) Deputy Directors, Office of Electric Reliability, in order of seniority;
(xii) Deputy Directors, Office of Enforcement, in order of seniority;
(xiii) Deputy Directors, Office of Energy Infrastructure Security, in order of seniority;
(xiv) Associate General Counsels and Solicitor, in order of seniority;
(xv) In order of seniority, Assistant Directors and Division heads, Office of Energy Market Regulation; Assistant Directors and Division heads, Office of Energy Projects; Assistant Directors and Division heads, Office of Electric Reliability; Deputy Associate General Counsels; Assistant Directors and Division heads, Office of Enforcement; Assistant Directors and Division heads, Office of Energy Infrastructure Security;
(xvi) In order of seniority, Regional Engineers and Branch Chiefs of the Office of Energy Projects' regional offices; and Deputy Division Directors and Group Managers of the Office of Electric Reliability's regional offices.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(viii)-(xvi) of this section, order of seniority shall be based on the highest grade and longest period of service in that grade and, furthermore, for purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(xv)-(xvi) of this section, order of seniority shall be without regard to the particular Office or Division or Branch or Group to which the member of staff is assigned.
(c)
Devolution of authority to Commission staff during emergencies affecting the National Capital Region.
(1) To the extent not otherwise provided by this section, during emergency conditions when the Chairman is not available
and capable of acting, when no Commissioner is available and capable of acting, and when no person listed in paragraph (b)(2)(i) through (xvi) of this section who is located in the National Capital Region is available and capable of acting, the functions of the Commission are delegated, in order of seniority (as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section), to Regional Engineers and Branch Chiefs of the Office of Energy Projects' regional offices and Deputy Division Directors and Group Managers of the Office of Electric Reliability's regional offices.
(2) Such delegation shall continue until such time as the Chairman is available and capable of acting, one or more Commissioners are available and capable of acting, or persons listed in paragraph (b)(2)(i)-(xvi) of this section who are located in the National Capital Region are available and capable of acting.
(d)
Reconsideration of staff action taken under delegations.
Action taken pursuant to the delegations provided for in this section shall be subject to reconsideration by the Commission, acting with a quorum, within thirty days after the date upon which public notice is given that a quorum of the Commission has been reconstituted and is functioning.
[Order 905, 90 FR 4625, Jan. 16, 2025]
§ 376.205
Delegation of Chairman's authority during emergency conditions.
When, by reason of emergency conditions, the Chairman is not available and capable of acting, his functions are delegated to the Commissioner available and capable of acting and who is designated by the President. Until such time as the President designates, or if no such Commissioner is designated, such functions are delegated to the Commissioner designated by the Chairman as Acting Chairman, but if such Acting Chairman is not available and capable of acting such functions are delegated to the Commissioner who is available and capable of acting and who has the longest tenure as a member of the Commission. If there is no Commissioner available and capable of acting, such functions are delegated to the person on the Commission staff who is available and capable of acting and who is highest on the list set forth in § 376.204(b)(2).
§ 376.206
Delegation of functions of certain Commission staff members.
When, by reason of emergency conditions, the Secretary, Director of any Office or Division, or officer in charge of a regional office, is not available and capable of carrying out his or her functions, such functions are delegated to staff members designated by the Chairman to perform such functions. If no staff member so designated is available and capable of carrying out their functions, such functions are delegated to the next subordinate employee in the Office or Division of the highest grade and longest period of service in that grade. If no subordinate employee of the Office or Division is available and capable of carrying out their functions, such functions are delegated to the Commission employee of the highest grade and longest period of service in that grade who is available and capable of carrying out their functions.
[Order 680, 71 FR 42595, July 27, 2006]
§ 376.207
Personnel and fiscal functions.
Subject to modifications or revocation by authority of the Executive Director, during the continuation of emergency conditions authority to effect temporary appointments of such additional officers and employees, to classify and allocate positions to their proper grades, to issue travel orders, and to effect emergency purchases of supplies, equipment and services shall be exercised by the respective Directors of Offices and officials in charge of regional offices, their deputies, or staff in line of succession, as may be required for the discharge of the lawful duties of such organization.
[Order 613, 64 FR 73408, Dec. 30, 1999, as amended by Order 699, 72 FR 45328, Aug. 14, 2007]
§ 376.208
Effect upon existing Commission requirements.
All outstanding Commission orders, rules and regulations shall remain in force and effect during the continuance of emergency conditions, except to the
extent modified in accordance with authority exercised under this subpart.
§ 376.209
Continuity of Operations Plan and suspension of Commission operations.
(a)(1)(i)
Activation of COOP and suspension of Commission operations.
The Commission's Continuity of Operations Plan may be activated by the Chairman (or the Chairman's delegate pursuant to § 376.205, as appropriate). In circumstances in which the Commission's Continuity of Operations Plan is activated, Commission headquarters operations may be temporarily disrupted in whole or in part or communications with Commission headquarters may be temporarily unavailable, either of which may prevent the public or the Commission from meeting regulatory or statutory requirements. After the Commission's Continuity of Operations Plan is activated, Commission operations other than emergency functions may be suspended in whole or in part by the Chairman (or the Chairman's delegate, as appropriate). The provisions of this section are effective upon activation of the Continuity of Operations Plan and the subsequent suspension of Commission operations, in whole or in part, and shall remain in effect up to 30 days, or such shorter time than 30 days as the Chairman (or the Chairman's delegate, as appropriate) determines to be appropriate, or such longer time than 30 days as the Commission (or the Commission's delegate pursuant to section 376.204 of this Part, as appropriate) determines to be appropriate. Resumption of Commission operations following activation of the Continuity of Operations Plan and any subsequent suspension of Commission operations, in whole or in part, may occur either simultaneously for all activities, or over time for just some activities, and in such manner and at such time, as the Chairman (or the Chairman's delegate, as appropriate) or the Commission (or the Commission's delegate, as appropriate) determines to be appropriate.
(ii)
Notification of COOP activation and, following such activation, notification of suspension of Commission operations.
During periods when the Commission's Continuity of Operations Plan is activated and, following such activation, when Commission operations are subsequently suspended in whole or in part, the Chairman (or the Chairman's delegate pursuant to § 376.205, as appropriate) will notify the public that the Continuity of Operations Plan has been activated and that Commission operations have been suspended in whole or in part by sending a press release announcing that fact to major wire services, industry press, and appropriate metropolitan area radio stations The Commission's Web site (
http://www.ferc.gov
) or the Commission's alternative Web site (
http://www.fercalt.gov
), as appropriate, will be activated and a notice that the Continuity of Operations Plan has been activated and that Commission operations have been suspended in whole or in part will be prominently displayed thereon. The Web site or alternative Web site, as appropriate, will act as a resource for the press, industry, and general public. An additional press release will be sent to appropriate media outlets and a notice will be prominently displayed on the Commission's Web site or alternative Web site, as appropriate, when the Continuity of Operations Plan is deactivated and the Commission's headquarters are reopened or reconstituted and Commission operations resume.
(2)
Activities continued during COOP.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, during periods when the Commission's Continuity of Operations Plan is activated and, following such activation, when Commission operations are subsequently suspended in whole or in part, the Commission will continue to conduct emergency functions. As part of its emergency functions, the Commission will act on requests to ensure continued construction of essential natural gas facilities with sensitive construction timelines, on Commencement of Service requests, and on completion of dam safety work, in a manner consistent with the maintenance of environmental protections. Also as part of its emergency functions, the Commission will ensure that its personnel are available to respond to plant accidents or reportable incidents at LNG facilities, and to address dam safety, public safety, and security
incidents at jurisdictional hydropower projects and to address other matters involving the safety of human life or protection of property. Alternate channels of communication will include measures to ensure that these activities can go forward unhindered.
(b)
Standards of conduct for transmission service providers.
During periods when the Commission's Continuity of Operations Plan is activated and, following such activation, when Commission operations are suspended in whole or in relevant part, a Transmission Provider affected by the same emergency affecting the Commission may, for up to 30 days, or such other time as the Chairman (or the Chairman's delegate pursuant to § 376.205, as appropriate) may direct, delay compliance with the requirement to report to the Commission each emergency that resulted in any deviation from the standards of conduct within 24 hours of such deviation. If the emergency prevents such Transmission Provider from posting information on its OASIS or Internet Web site, the Transmission Provider may, for up to 30 days, or such shorter time as the Chairman (or the Chairman's delegate, as appropriate) may direct or such longer time as the Commission (or the Commission's delegate pursuant to § 376.204, as appropriate) may direct, also delay compliance with the requirements of § 358.4(a)(2) of this chapter to post this information on its OASIS or Internet Web site, as applicable.
(c)
Tolling of time periods for Commission action.
Unless otherwise directed, for those pending matters where the date that the Commission must act falls during the period when the Continuity of Operations Plan is activated and, following such activation, when Commission operations are suspended in whole or in relevant part and also during the 14 days thereafter, the Commission tolls, for purposes of further consideration, the time period in which the Commission must act. Such matters include:
(1) 60-day period to act on requests for Exempt Wholesale Generator or Foreign Utility Company status;
(2) 90-day period for acting on requests for certification of qualifying facility status;
(3) 60-day period for acting on interlocking directorate applications;
(4) 60-day period for acting on Public Utility Holding Company Act exemptions and waivers;
(5) 180-period for acting on applications under section 203 of the Federal Power Act;
(6) 150-day period for acting on intrastate pipeline applications for approval of proposed rates;
(7) Period ending 60 days prior to the Electric Reliability Organization's (ERO) fiscal year for acting on the ERO's budget;
(8) 60-day period for acting on notifications that a Reliability Standard may conflict with a function, rule, order, tariff, rate schedule or agreement;
(9) 60-day period for acting on applications for review of a penalty imposed by the ERO for violation of a Reliability Standard;
(10) 45-day protest period for protesting Prior Notice Filings, and the 30-day period for resolving and filing to withdraw such Protests;
(11) 30-day period for acting on requests for rehearing;
(12) Time periods for action by a presiding officer or the Motions Commissioner, as well as by the Commission, on motions to permit interlocutory appeals, interlocutory appeals and certified questions; and
(13) 90-day period for acting on applications requesting relief from, or reinstatement of, an electric utility's mandatory purchase obligation pursuant to section 210(m) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978.
(d)
Suspension of certain requirements.
Unless otherwise directed, during periods when the Commission's Continuity of Operations Plan is activated and, following such activation, when Commission operations are suspended in whole or in relevant part, the requirements to file by a certain date are suspended when communications with Commission headquarters are unavailable such that filings, submissions, and notifications cannot be received by the Commission. Unless otherwise directed by the Chairman (or the Chairman's delegate pursuant to § 376.205, as appropriate), those filings, submissions, and notifications, the filing of which was
suspended, will be due the first day that communications with Commission headquarters are available such that filings, submissions, and notifications can be received by the Commission. Such filings, submissions, and notifications include:
(1) Filings to comply with orders or notices, including orders or notices issued by the Commission, a presiding officer, and a Commission decisional employee (including the directors of the Commission's various offices and their delegates);
(2) Filings required to be made by a date certain either under the Commission's regulations, or under orders and notices issued by the Commission, a presiding officer, and a Commission decisional employee (including the directors of the Commission's various offices and their delegates); such filings include, e.g., briefs, motions, and answers to motions;
(3) Motions to intervene and notices of intervention, or protests;
(4) Comments responding to notices of inquiry, proposed rulemakings or technical conferences;
(5) Responses to data requests and deficiency letters issued either by the Commission or by a decisional employee pursuant to delegated authority;
(6) Self-reports of violations;
(7) Responses to staff audit reports;
(8) Contacts with the Commission's Enforcement Hotline;
(9) Accounting filings required by the Commission's Uniform Systems of Accounts;
(10) Forms required to be filed by a date certain;
(11) Notices of intent to file new applications and applications for new licenses pursuant to section 15 of the Federal Power Act;
(12) Requests for rehearing of orders and letter orders issued either by the Commission or by a decisional employee pursuant to delegated authority; and
(13) The Electric Reliability Organization's advising the Commission of the Electric Reliability Organization's intent to issue Level 1 Advisories, Level 2 Recommendations, and Level 3 Essential Actions, and the Electric Reliability Organization's reporting to the Commission on actions taken in response to Level 2 Recommendations and Level 3 Essential Actions.
(e)
Acceptance and suspension of rate and other filings.
Unless otherwise directed, if the date by which the Commission is required to act on rate and other filings made pursuant to section 4 of the Natural Gas Act, section 205 of the Federal Power Act, and section 6(3) of the Interstate Commerce Act falls during a period when the Continuity of Operations Plan is activated and, following such activation, when Commission operations are suspended in whole or in relevant part and also during the 14 days thereafter, such filings shall be deemed to be accepted for filing and suspended and made effective on the requested effective date, subject to refund and further order of the Commission. The acceptance for filing and suspension of these filings is without prejudice to any further action the Commission may take with respect to these filings.
(f)
Electric Reliability Organization penalties.
Unless otherwise directed, if the date a penalty imposed by the Electric Reliability Organization under section 215 of the Federal Power Act would take effect falls during a period when the Continuity of Operations Plan is activated and, following such activation, when Commission operations are suspended in whole or in relevant part and also during the 14 days thereafter, review of such penalty by the Commission shall be deemed to be initiated and the penalty shall be stayed pending further action of the Commission.
(g)
Consistency of State action with Reliability Standard.
Unless otherwise directed, if the date by which a Commission determination under section 215 of the Federal Power Act as to whether a State action is inconsistent with a Reliability Standard is required to be made falls during a period when the Continuity of Operations Plan is activated and, following such activation, when Commission operations are suspended in whole or in relevant part and also during the 14 days thereafter, the effectiveness of the State action will be deemed to be stayed pending further action by the Commission.
(h)
Suspension of evidentiary hearings and related conferences and meetings.
During periods when the Continuity of Operations Plan is activated and, following such activation, when Commission operations are suspended in whole or in relevant part, all evidentiary hearings, prehearing conferences, settlement conferences, and other meetings before presiding officers are suspended, and any requirement that a presiding officer act on motions (including motions to permit interlocutory appeals and to certify questions) is also suspended. Service of data requests and other discovery, and responses thereto, by and to the Commission's Trial Staff is similarly suspended. Upon resumption of Commission operations in whole or in relevant part, such hearings, conferences and other meetings will be rescheduled, action on motions also will be rescheduled, and service of data requests and other discovery, and responses thereto, by and to the Commission's Trial Staff, will similarly be rescheduled, by the presiding officer or the Commission, as appropriate.
(i)
Enforcement Actions under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978.
Unless otherwise directed, if the date by which the Commission is required to act on a petition for enforcement action under section 210(h)(2) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 falls during a period when the Continuity of Operations Plan is activated and, following such activation, when Commission operations are suspended in whole or in relevant part, and also during the 14 days thereafter, the Commission will not initiate such an enforcement action under section 210(h)(2) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 and the petitioner may itself bring its own enforcement action in the appropriate court.
(j)
Chairman's and Commission's authority to modify deadlines and timeframes.
During periods when the Continuity of Operations Plan is activated and, following such activation, when Commission operations are suspended in whole or in part and also during the 14 days thereafter, the Chairman (or the Chairman's delegate pursuant to § 376.205, as appropriate), may shorten, and the Commission (or the Commission's delegate pursuant to § 376.204, as appropriate) may extend, with respect to the matters addressed in this section, as appropriate:
(1) The time periods and dates for filings with the Commission, a decisional employee, or a presiding officer;
(2) The time periods and dates for reports, submissions and notifications to the Commission, a decisional employee, or a presiding officer; and
(3) The time periods and dates for actions by the Commission, a decisional employee, or a presiding officer.
[Order 765, 77 FR 43490, July 25, 2012]
Pt. 380

# PART 380—REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
Sec.
380.1
Purpose.
380.2
Definitions and terminology.
380.3
Environmental information to be supplied by an applicant.
380.4
Projects or actions categorically excluded.
380.5
Actions that require an environmental assessment.
380.6
Actions that require an environmental impact statement.
380.7
Format of an environmental impact statement.
380.8
Preparation of environmental documents.
380.9
Public availability of NEPA documents and public notice of NEPA related hearings and public meetings.
380.10
Participation in Commission proceedings.
380.11
Environmental decisionmaking.
380.12
Environmental reports for Natural Gas Act applications.
380.13
Compliance with the Endangered Species Act.
380.14
Compliance with the National Historic Preservation Act.
380.15
Siting and maintenance requirements.
380.16
Environmental reports for section 216 Federal Power Act Permits.
Appendix A to Part 380—Minimum Filing Requirements for Environmental Reports Under the Natural Gas Act

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 4321-4370h, 7101-7352; E.O. 12009, 3 CFR 1978 Comp., p. 142.

# Source:
Order 486, 52 FR 47910, Dec. 17, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 380.1
Purpose.
The regulations in this part implement the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's procedures under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA). These regulations supplement the regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality, 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508. The Commission will comply with the regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality except where those regulations are inconsistent with the statutory requirements of the Commission.
[Order 486, 52 FR 47910, Dec. 17, 1987, as amended by Order 756, 77 FR 4895, Feb. 1, 2012]
§ 380.2
Definitions and terminology.
For purposes of this part—
(a)
Categorical exclusion
means a category of actions described in § 380.4, which do not individually or cumulatively have a significant effect on the human environment and which the Commission has found to have no such effect and for which, therefore, neither an environmental assessment nor an environmental impact statement is required. The Commission may decide to prepare environmental assessments for the reasons stated in § 380.4(b).
(b)
Commission
means the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
(c)
Council
means the Council on Environmental Quality.
(d)
Environmental assessment
means a concise public document for which the Commission is responsible that serves to:
(1) Briefly provide sufficient evidence and analysis for determining whether to prepare an environmental impact statement or a finding of no significant impact.
(2) Aid the Commission's compliance with NEPA when no environmental impact statement is necessary.
(3) Facilitate preparation of a statement when one is necessary. Environmental assessments must include brief discussions of the need for the proposal, of alternatives as required by section 102(2)(E) of NEPA, of the environmental impacts of the proposed action and alternatives, and a listing of agencies and persons consulted.
(e)
Environmental impact statement
(EIS) means a detailed written statement as required by section 102(2)(C) of NEPA. DEIS means a draft EIS and FEIS means a final EIS.
(f)
Environmental justice community
means any community that has been historically marginalized and overburdened by pollution. Environmental justice communities include, but may not be limited to, minority populations, low-income populations, or indigenous peoples.
(g)
Environmental report
or ER means that part of an application submitted to the Commission by an applicant for authorization of a proposed action which includes information concerning the environment, the applicant's analysis of the environmental impact of the action, or alternatives to the action required by this or other applicable statutes or regulations.
(h)
Finding of no significant impact
(FONSI) means a document by the Commission briefly presenting the reason why an action, not otherwise excluded by § 380.4, will not have a significant effect on the human environment and for which an environmental impact statement therefore will not be prepared. It must include the environmental assessment or a summary of it and must note other environmental documents related to it. If the assessment is included, the FONSI need not repeat any of the discussion in the assessment but may incorporate it by reference.
[Order 486, 52 FR 47910, Dec. 17, 1987, as amended by Order 1977, 89 FR 46734, May 29, 2024]
§ 380.3
Environmental information to be supplied by an applicant.
(a) An applicant must submit information as follows:
(1) For any proposed action identified in §§ 380.5 and 380.6, an environmental report with the proposal as prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) For any proposal not identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, any environmental information that the Commission may determine is necessary for compliance with these regulations, the regulations of the Council, NEPA and
other Federal laws such as the Endangered Species Act, the National Historic Preservation Act or the Coastal Zone Management Act.
(b) An applicant must also:
(1) Provide all necessary or relevant information to the Commission;
(2) Conduct any studies that the Commission staff considers necessary or relevant to determine the impact of the proposal on the human environment and natural resources;
(3) Consult with appropriate Federal, regional, State, and local agencies during the planning stages of the proposed action to ensure that all potential environmental impacts are identified. (The specific requirements for consultation on hydropower projects are contained in § 4.38 and § 16.8 of this chapter and in section 4(a) of the Electric Consumers Protection Act, Pub. L. No. 99-495, 100 Stat. 1243, 1246 (1986));
(4) Submit applications for all Federal and State approvals as early as possible in the planning process; and
(5) Notify the Commission staff of all other Federal actions required for completion of the proposed action so that the staff may coordinate with other interested Federal agencies.
(c)
Content of an applicant's environmental report for specific proposals
—(1)
Hydropower projects.
The information required for specific project applications under part 4 or 16 of this chapter.
(2)
Natural gas projects.
(i) For any application filed under the Natural Gas Act for any proposed action identified in §§ 380.5 or 380.6, except for prior notice filings under § 157.208, as described in § 380.5(b), the information identified in § 380.12 and Appendix A of this part.
(ii) For prior notice filings under § 157.208, the report described by § 157.208(c)(11) of this chapter.
(3)
Electric transmission project.
For pre-filing requests and applications filed under section 216 of the Federal Power Act identified in §§ 380.5(b)(14) and 380.6(a)(5).
[Order 486, 52 FR 47910, Dec. 17, 1987, as amended by Order 533, 56 FR 23155, May 20, 1991; Order 603, 64 FR 26611, May 14, 1999; Order 689, 71 FR 69470, Dec. 1, 2006; Order 756, 77 FR 4895, Feb. 1, 2012]
§ 380.4
Projects or actions categorically excluded.
(a)
General rule.
Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this section, neither an environmental assessment nor an environmental impact statement will be prepared for the following projects or actions:
(1) Procedural, ministerial, or internal administrative and management actions, programs, or decisions, including procurement, contracting, personnel actions, correction or clarification of filings or orders, and acceptance, rejection and dismissal of filings;
(2)(i) Reports or recommendations on legislation not initiated by the Commission, and
(ii) Proposals for legislation and promulgation of rules that are clarifying, corrective, or procedural, or that do not substantially change the effect of legislation or regulations being amended;
(3) Compliance and review actions, including investigations (jurisdictional or otherwise), conferences, hearings, notices of probable violation, show cause orders, and adjustments under section 502(c) of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (NGPA);
(4) Review of grants or denials by the Department of Energy (DOE) of any adjustment request, and review of contested remedial orders issued by DOE;
(5) Information gathering, analysis, and dissemination;
(6) Conceptual or feasibility studies;
(7) Actions concerning the reservation and classification of United States lands as water power sites and other actions under section 24 of the Federal Power Act;
(8) Transfers of water power project licenses and transfers of exemptions under Part I of the Federal Power Act and Part 9 of this chapter;
(9) Issuance of preliminary permits for water power projects under Part I of the Federal Power Act and Part 4 of this chapter;
(10) Withdrawals of applications for certificates under the Natural Gas Act, or for water power project preliminary permits, exemptions, or licenses under Part I of the Federal Power Act and Part 4 of this chapter;
(11) Actions concerning annual charges or headwater benefits, charges
for water power projects under Parts 11 and 13 of this chapter and establishment of fees to be paid by an applicant for a license or exemption required to meet the terms and conditions of section 30(c) of the Federal Power Act;
(12) Approval for water power projects under Part I of the Federal Power Act, of “as built” or revised drawings or exhibits that propose no changes to project works or operations or that reflect changes that have previously been approved or required by the Commission;
(13) Surrender and amendment of preliminary permits, and surrender of water power licenses and exemptions where no project works exist or ground disturbing activity has occurred and amendments to water power licenses and exemptions that do not require ground disturbing activity or changes to project works or operation;
(14) Exemptions for small conduit hydroelectric facilities as defined in § 4.30(b)(30) of this chapter under Part I of the Federal Power Act and Part 4 of this chapter;
(15) Electric rate filings submitted by public utilities under sections 205 and 206 of the Federal Power Act, the establishment of just and reasonable rates, and confirmation, approval, and disapproval of rate filings submitted by Federal power marketing agencies under the Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act, the Department of Energy Organization Act, and DOE Delegation Order No. 0204-108.
(16) Approval of actions under sections 4(b), 203, 204, 301, 304, and 305 of the Federal Power Act relating to issuance and purchase of securities, acquisition or disposition of property, merger, interlocking directorates, jurisdictional determinations and accounting orders;
(17) Approval of electrical interconnections and wheeling under sections 202(b), 210, 211, and 212 of the Federal Power Act, that would not entail:
(i) Construction of a new substation or expansion of the boundaries of an existing substation;
(ii) Construction of any transmission line that operates at more than 115 kilovolts (KV) and occupies more than ten miles of an existing right-of-way; or
(iii) Construction of any transmission line more than one mile long if located on a new right-of-way;
(18) Approval of changes in land rights for water power projects under Part I of the Federal Power Act and Part 4 of this chapter, if no construction or change in land use is either proposed or known by the Commission to be contemplated for the land affected;
(19) Approval of proposals under Part I of the Federal Power Act and Part 4 of this chapter to authorize use of water power project lands or waters for gas or electric utility distribution lines, radial (sub-transmission) lines, communications lines and cables, storm drains, sewer lines not discharging into project waters, water mains, piers, landings, boat docks, or similar structures and facilities, landscaping or embankments, bulkheads, retaining walls, or similar shoreline erosion control structures;
(20) Action on applications for exemption under section 1(c) of the Natural Gas Act;
(21) Approvals of blanket certificate applications and prior notice filings under § 157.204 and §§ 157.209 through 157.218 of this chapter;
(22) Approvals of blanket certificate applications under §§ 284.221 through 284.224 of this chapter;
(23) Producers' applications for the sale of gas filed under §§ 157.23 through 157.29 of this chapter;
(24) Approval under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act of taps, meters, and regulating facilities located completely within an existing natural gas pipeline right-of-way or compressor station if company records show the land use of the vicinity has not changed since the original facilities were installed, and no significant nonjurisdictional facilities would be constructed in association with construction of the interconnection facilities;
(25) Review of natural gas rate filings, including any curtailment plans other than those specified in § 380.5(b)(5), and establishment of rates for transportation and sale of natural gas under sections 4 and 5 of the Natural Gas Act and sections 311 and 401
through 404 of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978;
(26) Review of approval of oil pipeline rate filings under Parts 340 and 341 of this chapter;
(27) Sale, exchange, and transportation of natural gas under sections 4, 5 and 7 of the Natural Gas Act that require no construction of facilities;
(28) Abandonment in place of a minor natural gas pipeline (short segments of buried pipe of 6-inch inside diameter or less), or abandonment by removal of minor surface facilities such as metering stations, valves, and taps under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act so long as appropriate erosion control and site restoration takes place;
(29) Abandonment of service under any gas supply contract pursuant to section 7 of the Natural Gas Act;
(30) Approval of filing made in compliance with the requirements of a certificate for a natural gas project under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act or a preliminary permit, exemption, license, or license amendment order for a water power project under Part I of the Federal Power Act;
(31) Abandonment of facilities by sale that involves only minor or no ground disturbance to disconnect the facilities from the system;
(32) Conversion of facilities from use under the NGPA to use under the NGA;
(33) Construction or abandonment of facilities constructed entirely in Federal offshore waters that has been approved by the Minerals Management Service and the Corps of Engineers, as necessary;
(34) Abandonment or construction of facilities on an existing offshore platform;
(35) Abandonment, construction or replacement of a facility (other than compression) solely within an existing building within a natural gas facility (other than LNG facilities), if it does not increase the noise or air emissions from the facility, as a whole; and
(36) Conversion of compression to standby use if the compressor is not moved, or abandonment of compression if the compressor station remains in operation.
(b)
Exceptions to categorical exclusions.
(1) In accordance with 40 CFR 1508.4, the Commission and its staff will independently evaluate environmental information supplied in an application and in comments by the public. Where circumstances indicate that an action may be a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, the Commission:
(i) May require an environmental report or other additional environmental information, and
(ii) Will prepare an environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement.
(2) Such circumstances may exist when the action may have an effect on one of the following:
(i) Indian lands;
(ii) Wilderness areas;
(iii) Wild and scenic rivers;
(iv) Wetlands;
(v) Units of the National Park System, National Refuges, or National Fish Hatcheries;
(vi) Anadromous fish or endangered species; or
(vii) Where the environmental effects are uncertain.
However, the existence of one or more of the above will not automatically require the submission of an environmental report or the preparation of an environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement.
[Order 486, 52 FR 47910, Dec. 17, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 8177, Mar. 14, 1988; Order 486-B, 53 FR 26437, July 13, 1988; 54 FR 48740, Nov. 27, 1989; Order 603, 64 FR 26611, May 14, 1999; Order 609, 64 FR 57392, Oct. 25, 1999; Order 756, 77 FR 4895, Feb. 1, 2012; Order 800, 79 FR 59112, Oct. 1, 2014]
§ 380.5
Actions that require an environmental assessment.
(a) An environmental assessment will normally be prepared first for the actions identified in this section. Depending on the outcome of the environmental assessment, the Commission may or may not prepare an environmental impact statement. However, depending on the location or scope of the proposed action, or the resources affected, the Commission may in specific circumstances proceed directly to prepare an environmental impact statement.
(b) The projects subject to an environmental assessment are as follows:
(1) Except as identified in §§ 380.4, 380.6 and 2.55 of this chapter, authorization for the site of new gas import/export facilities under DOE Delegation No. 0204-112 and authorization under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act for the construction, replacement, or abandonment of compression, processing, or interconnecting facilities, onshore and offshore pipelines, metering facilities, LNG peak-shaving facilities, or other facilities necessary for the sale, exchange, storage, or transportation of natural gas;
(2) Prior notice filings under § 157.208 of this chapter for the rearrangement of any facility specified in §§ 157.202 (b)(3) and (6) of this chapter or the acquisition, construction, or operation of any eligible facility as specified in §§ 157.202 (b)(2) and (3) of this chapter;
(3) Abandonment or reduction of natural gas service under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act unless excluded under § 380.4 (a)(21), (28) or (29);
(4) Except as identified in § 380.6, conversion of existing depleted oil or natural gas fields to underground storage fields under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act.
(5) New natural gas curtailment plans, or any amendment to an existing curtailment plan under section 4 of the Natural Gas Act and sections 401 through 404 of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 that has a major effect on an entire pipeline system;
(6) Licenses under Part I of the Federal Power Act and part 4 of this chapter for construction of any water power project—existing dam;
(7) Exemptions under section 405 of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended, and §§ 4.30(b)(31) and 4.101-4.108 of this chapter for small hydroelectric power projects of 10 MW or less;
(8) Licenses for additional project works at licensed projects under Part I of the Federal Power Act whether or not these are styled license amendments or original licenses;
(9) Licenses under Part I of the Federal Power Act and part 4 of this chapter for transmission lines only;
(10) Applications for new licenses under section 15 of the Federal Power Act;
(11) Approval of electric interconnections and wheeling under section 202(b), 210, 211, and 212 of the Federal Power Act, unless excluded under § 380.4(a)(17);
(12) Regulations or proposals for legislation not included under § 380.4(a)(2);
(13) Surrender of water power licenses and exemptions where project works exist or ground disturbing activity has occurred and amendments to water power licenses and exemptions that require ground disturbing activity or changes to project works or operations; and
(14) Except as identified in § 380.6, authorization to site new electric transmission facilities under section 216 of the Federal Power Act and DOE Delegation Order No. 00-004.00A.
[Order 486, 52 FR 47910, Dec. 17, 1987; Order 486, 53 FR 4817, Feb. 17, 1988, as amended by 53 FR 8177, Mar. 14, 1988; Order 486-B, 53 FR 26437, July 13, 1988; Order 689, 71 FR 69470, Dec. 1, 2006; Order 756, 77 FR 4895, Feb. 1, 2012; Order 800, 79 FR 59112, Oct. 1, 2014]
§ 380.6
Actions that require an environmental impact statement.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an environmental impact statement will normally be prepared first for the following projects:
(1) Authorization under sections 3 or 7 of the Natural Gas Act and DOE Delegation Order No. 0204-112 for the siting, construction, and operation of jurisdictional liquefied natural gas import/export facilities used wholly or in part to liquefy, store, or regasify liquefied natural gas transported by water;
(2) Certificate applications under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act to develop an underground natural gas storage facility except where depleted oil or natural gas producing fields are used;
(3) Major pipeline construction projects under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act using rights-of-way in which there is no existing natural gas pipeline;
(4) Licenses under Part I of the Federal Power Act and part 4 of this chapter for construction of any unconstructed water power projects; and
(5) Major electric transmission facilities under section 216 of the Federal Power Act and DOE Delegation Order
No. 00-004.00A using right-of-way in which there is no existing facility.
(b) If the Commission believes that a proposed action identified in paragraph (a) of this section may not be a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, an environmental assessment, rather than an environmental impact statement, will be prepared first. Depending on the outcome of the environmental assessment, an environmental impact statement may or may not be prepared.
(c) An environmental impact statement will not be required if an environmental assessment indicates that a proposal has adverse environmental affects and the proposal is not approved.
[Order 486, 52 FR 47910, Dec. 17, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 8177, Mar. 14, 1988; Order 486-B, 53 FR 26437, July 13, 1988; Order 689, 71 FR 69470, Dec. 1, 2006; Order 756, 77 FR 4895, Feb. 1, 2012]
§ 380.7
Format of an environmental impact statement.
In addition to the requirements for an environmental impact statement prescribed in 40 CFR 1502.10 of the regulations of the Council, an environmental impact statement prepared by the Commission will include a section on the literature cited in the environmental impact statement and a staff conclusion section. The staff conclusion section will include summaries of:
(a) The significant environmental impacts of the proposed action;
(b) Any alternative to the proposed action that would have a less severe environmental impact or impacts and the action preferred by the staff;
(c) Any mitigation measures proposed by the applicant, as well as additional mitigation measures that might be more effective;
(d) Any significant environmental impacts of the proposed action that cannot be mitigated; and
(e) References to any pending, completed, or recommended studies that might provide baseline data or additional data on the proposed action.
§ 380.8
Preparation of environmental documents.
The preparation of environmental documents, as defined in § 1508.10 of the regulations of the Council (40 CFR 1508.10), on hydroelectric projects, natural gas facilities, and electric transmission facilities in national interest electric transmission corridors is the responsibility of the Commission's Office of Energy Projects, 888 First Street NE., Washington, DC 20426, (202) 502-8700. Persons interested in status reports or information on environmental impact statements or other elements of the NEPA process, including the studies or other information the Commission may require on these projects, can contact this office.
[Order 689, 71 FR 69471, Dec. 1, 2006, as amended by Order 756, 77 FR 4895, Feb. 1, 2012]
§ 380.9
Public availability of NEPA documents and public notice of NEPA related hearings and public meetings.
(a)(1) The Commission will comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 1506.6 of the regulations of the Council for public involvement in NEPA.
(2) If an action has effects of primarily local concern, the Commission may give additional notice in a Commission order.
(b) The Commission will make environmental impact statements, environmental assessments, the comments received, and any underlaying documents available to the public pursuant to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552 (1982)). The exclusion in the Freedom of Information Act for interagency memoranda is not applicable where such memoranda transmit comments of Federal agencies on the environmental impact of the proposed action. Such materials will be made available to the public through the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov,
at a fee and in the manner described in part 388 of this chapter. A copy of an environmental impact statement or environmental assessment for hydroelectric projects may also be made available for inspection at the Commission's regional office for the region where the proposed action is located.
[Order 486, 52 FR 47910, Dec. 17, 1987, as amended by Order 603-A, 64 FR 54537, Oct. 7, 1999; Order 899, 88 FR 74032, Oct. 30, 2023]
§ 380.10
Participation in Commission proceedings.
(a)
Intervention proceedings involving a party or parties
—(1)
Motion to intervene.
(i) In addition to submitting comments on the NEPA process and NEPA related documents, any person may file a motion to intervene in a Commission proceeding dealing with environmental issues under the terms of § 385.214 of this chapter. Any person who files a motion to intervene on the basis of a draft environmental impact statement will be deemed to have filed a timely motion, in accordance with § 385.214, as long as the motion is filed within the comment period for the draft environmental impact statement.
(ii) Any person that is granted intervention after petitioning becomes a party to the proceeding and accepts the record as developed by the parties as of the time that intervention is granted.
(2)(i)
Issues not set for trial-type hearing.
An intervenor who takes a position on any environmental issue that has not yet been set for hearing must file a timely motion with the Secretary containing an analysis of its position on such issue and specifying any differences with the position of Commission staff or an applicant upon which the intervenor wishes to be heard at a hearing.
(ii)
Issues set for trial-type hearing.
(A) Any intervenor that takes a position on an environmental issue set for hearing may offer evidence for the record in support of such position and otherwise participate in accordance with the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure. Any intervenor must specify any differences from the staff's and the applicant's positions.
(B) To be considered, any facts or opinions on an environmental issue set for hearing must be admitted into evidence and made part of the record of the proceeding.
(iii) Commission pre-filing activities commenced under §§ 157.21 and 50.5 of this chapter, respectively, are not considered proceedings under part 385 of this chapter and are not open to motions to intervene. Once an application is filed under part 157 subpart A or part 50 of this chapter, any person may file a motion to intervene in accordance with §§ 157.10 or 50.10 of this chapter or in accordance with this section.
(b)
Rulemaking proceedings.
Any person may file comments on any environmental issue in a rulemaking proceeding.
[Order 486, 52 FR 47910, Dec. 17, 1987, as amended by Order 689, 71 FR 69471, Dec. 1, 2006]
§ 380.11
Environmental decisionmaking.
(a)
Decision points.
For the actions which require an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement, environmental considerations will be addressed at appropriate major decision points.
(1) In proceedings involving a party or parties and not set for trial-type hearing, major decision points are the approval or denial of proposals by the Commission or its designees.
(2) In matters set for trial-type hearing, the major decision points are the initial decision of an administrative law judge or the decision of the Commission.
(3) In a rulemaking proceeding, the major decision points are the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and the Final Rule.
(b)
Environmental documents as part of the record.
The Commission will include environmental assessments, findings of no significant impact, or environmental impact statements, and any supplements in the record of the proceeding.
(c)
Application denials.
Notwithstanding any provision in this part, the Commission may dismiss or deny an application without performing an environmental impact statement or without undertaking environmental analysis.
§ 380.12
Environmental reports for Natural Gas Act applications.
(a)
Introduction.
(1) The applicant must submit an environmental report with any application that proposes the construction, operation, or abandonment of any facility identified in § 380.3(c)(2)(i). The environmental report shall consist of the thirteen resource reports and related material described in this section.
(2) The detail of each resource report must be commensurate with the complexity of the proposal and its potential for environmental impact. Each topic in each resource report shall be addressed or its omission justified, unless the resource report description indicates that the data is not required for that type of proposal. If material required for one resource report is provided in another resource report or in another exhibit, it may be incorporated by reference. If any resource report topic is required for a particular project but is not provided at the time the application is filed, the environmental report shall explain why it is missing and when the applicant anticipates it will be filed.
(3) The appendix to this part contains a checklist of the minimum filing requirements for an environmental report. Failure to provide at least the applicable checklist items will result in rejection of the application unless the Director of the Office of Energy Projects determines that the applicant has provided an acceptable reason for the item's absence and an acceptable schedule for filing it. Failure to file within the accepted schedule will result in rejection of the application.
(b)
General requirements.
As appropriate, each resource report shall:
(1) Address conditions or resources that might be directly or indirectly affected by the project;
(2) Identify significant environmental effects expected to occur as a result of the project;
(3) Identify the effects of construction, operation (including maintenance and malfunctions), and termination of the project, as well as cumulative effects resulting from existing or reasonably foreseeable projects;
(4) Identify measures proposed to enhance the environment or to avoid, mitigate, or compensate for adverse effects of the project;
(5) Provide a list of publications, reports, and other literature or communications, including agency contacts, that were cited or relied upon to prepare each report. This list should include the name and title of the person contacted, their affiliations, and telephone number;
(6) Whenever this section refers to “mileposts” the applicant may substitute “survey centerline stationing” if so desired. However, whatever method is chosen should be used consistently throughout the resource reports.
(c)
Resource Report 1—General project description.
This report is required for all applications. It will describe facilities associated with the project, special construction and operation procedures, construction timetables, future plans for related construction, compliance with regulations and codes, and permits that must be obtained. Resource Report 1 must:
(1) Describe and provide location maps of all jurisdictional facilities, including all aboveground facilities associated with the project (such as: meter stations, pig launchers/receivers, valves), to be constructed, modified, abandoned, replaced, or removed, including related construction and operational support activities and areas such as maintenance bases, staging areas, communications towers, power lines, and new access roads (roads to be built or modified). As relevant, the report must describe the length and diameter of the pipeline, the types of aboveground facilities that would be installed, and associated land requirements. It must also identify other companies that must construct jurisdictional facilities related to the project, where the facilities would be located, and where they are in the Commission's approval process.
(2) Identify and describe all nonjurisdictional facilities, including auxiliary facilities, that will be built in association with the project, including facilities to be built by other companies.
(i) Provide the following information:
(A) A brief description of each facility, including as appropriate: Ownership, land requirements, gas consumption, megawatt size, construction status, and an update of the latest status of Federal, state, and local permits/approvals;
(B) The length and diameter of any interconnecting pipeline;
(C) Current 1:24,000/1:25,000 scale topographic maps showing the location of the facilities;
(D) Correspondence with the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) or duly authorized Tribal Historic Preservation Officer (THPO) for tribal lands regarding whether properties eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) would be affected;
(E) Correspondence with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (and National Marine Fisheries Service, if appropriate) regarding potential impacts of the proposed facility on federally listed threatened and endangered species; and
(F) For facilities within a designated coastal zone management area, a consistency determination or evidence that the owner has requested a consistency determination from the state's coastal zone management program.
(ii) Address each of the following factors and indicate which ones, if any, appear to indicate the need for the Commission to do an environmental review of project-related nonjurisdictional facilities.
(A) Whether or not the regulated activity comprises “merely a link” in a corridor type project (e.g., a transportation or utility transmission project).
(B) Whether there are aspects of the nonjurisdictional facility in the immediate vicinity of the regulated activity which uniquely determine the location and configuration of the regulated activity.
(C) The extent to which the entire project will be within the Commission's jurisdiction.
(D) The extent of cumulative Federal control and responsibility.
(3) Provide the following maps and photos:
(i) Current, original United States Geological Survey (USGS) 7.5-minute series topographic maps or maps of equivalent detail, covering at least a 0.5-mile-wide corridor centered on the pipeline, with integer mileposts identified, showing the location of rights-of-way, new access roads, other linear construction areas, compressor stations, and pipe storage areas. Show nonlinear construction areas on maps at a scale of 1:3,600 or larger keyed graphically and by milepost to the right-of-way maps.
(ii) Original aerial images or photographs or photo-based alignment sheets based on these sources, not more than 1 year old (unless older ones accurately depict current land use and development) and with a scale of 1:6,000 or larger, showing the proposed pipeline route and location of major aboveground facilities, covering at least a 0.5 mile-wide corridor, and including mileposts. Older images/photographs/alignment sheets should be modified to show any residences not depicted in the original. Alternative formats (e.g., blue-line prints of acceptable resolution) need prior approval by the environmental staff of the Office of Energy Projects.
(iii) In addition to the copy required under § 157.6(a)(2) of this chapter, applicant should send two additional copies of topographic maps and aerial images/photographs directly to the environmental staff of the Office of Energy Projects.
(4) When new or additional compression is proposed, include large scale (1:3,600 or greater) plot plans of each compressor station. The plot plan should reference a readily identifiable point(s) on the USGS maps required in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The maps and plot plans must identify the location of the nearest noise-sensitive areas (schools, hospitals, or residences) within 1 mile of the compressor station, existing and proposed compressor and auxiliary buildings, access roads, and the limits of areas that would be permanently disturbed.
(5)(i) Identify facilities to be abandoned, and state how they would be abandoned, how the site would be restored, who would own the site or right-of-way after abandonment, and who would be responsible for any facilities abandoned in place.
(ii) When the right-of-way or the easement would be abandoned, identify whether landowners were given the opportunity to request that the facilities on their property, including foundations and below ground components, be removed. Identify any landowners whose preferences the company does not intend to honor, and the reasons therefore.
(6) Describe and identify by milepost, proposed construction and restoration methods to be used in areas of rugged topography, residential areas, active
croplands, sites where the pipeline would be located parallel to and under roads, and sites where explosives are likely to be used.
(7) Unless provided in response to Resource Report 5, describe estimated workforce requirements, including the number of pipeline construction spreads, average workforce requirements for each construction spread and meter or compressor station, estimated duration of construction from initial clearing to final restoration, and number of personnel to be hired to operate the proposed project.
(8) Describe reasonably foreseeable plans for future expansion of facilities, including additional land requirements and the compatibility of those plans with the current proposal.
(9) Describe all authorizations required to complete the proposed action and the status of applications for such authorizations. Identify environmental mitigation requirements specified in any permit or proposed in any permit application to the extent not specified elsewhere in this section.
(10) Provide the names and mailing addresses of all affected landowners specified in § 157.6(d) and certify that all affected landowners will be notified as required in § 157.6(d).
(d)
Resource Report 2—Water use and quality.
This report is required for all applications, except those which involve only facilities within the areas of an existing compressor, meter, or regulator station that were disturbed by construction of the existing facilities, no wetlands or waterbodies are on the site and there would not be a significant increase in water use. The report must describe water quality and provide data sufficient to determine the expected impact of the project and the effectiveness of mitigative, enhancement, or protective measures. Resource Report 2 must:
(1) Identify and describe by milepost perennial waterbodies and municipal water supply or watershed areas, specially designated surface water protection areas and sensitive waterbodies, and wetlands that would be crossed. For each waterbody crossing, identify the approximate width, state water quality classifications, any known potential pollutants present in the water or sediments, and any potable water intake sources within 3 miles downstream.
(2) Compare proposed mitigation measures with the staff's current “
Wetland and Waterbody Construction and Mitigation Procedures
,” which are available from the Commission Internet home page or the Commission staff, describe what proposed alternative mitigation would provide equivalent or greater protection to the environment, and provide a description of site- specific construction techniques that would be used at each major waterbody crossing.
(3) Describe typical staging area requirements at waterbody and wetland crossings. Also, identify and describe waterbodies and wetlands where staging areas are likely to be more extensive.
(4) Include National Wetland Inventory (NWI) maps. If NWI maps are not available, provide the appropriate state wetland maps. Identify for each crossing, the milepost, the wetland classification specified by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the length of the crossing. Include two copies of the NWI maps (or the substitutes, if NWI maps are not available) clearly showing the proposed route and mileposts directed to the environmental staff. Describe by milepost, wetland crossings as determined by field delineations using the current Federal methodology.
(5) Identify aquifers within excavation depth in the project area, including the depth of the aquifer, current and projected use, water quality and average yield, and known or suspected contamination problems.
(6) Describe specific locations, the quantity required, and the method and rate of withdrawal and discharge of hydrostatic test water. Describe suspended or dissolved material likely to be present in the water as a result of contact with the pipeline, particularly if an existing pipeline is being retested. Describe chemical or physical treatment of the pipeline or hydrostatic test water. Discuss waste products generated and disposal methods.
(7) If underground storage of natural gas is proposed:
(i) Identify how water produced from the storage field will be disposed of, and
(ii) For salt caverns, identify the source locations, the quantity required, and the method and rate of withdrawal of water for creating salt cavern(s), as well as the means of disposal of brine resulting from cavern leaching.
(8) Discuss proposed mitigation measures to reduce the potential for adverse impacts to surface water, wetlands, or groundwater quality to the extent they are not described in response to paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Discuss the potential for blasting to affect water wells, springs, and wetlands, and measures to be taken to detect and remedy such effects.
(9) Identify the location of known public and private groundwater supply wells or springs within 150 feet of proposed construction areas. Identify locations of EPA or state-designated sole-source aquifers and wellhead protection areas crossed by the proposed pipeline facilities.
(e)
Resource Report 3—Fish, wildlife, and vegetation.
This report is required for all applications, except those involving only facilities within the improved area of an existing compressor, meter, or regulator station. It must describe aquatic life, wildlife, and vegetation in the vicinity of the proposed project; expected impacts on these resources including potential effects on biodiversity; and proposed mitigation, enhancement or protection measures. Resource Report 3 must:
(1) Describe commercial and recreational warmwater, coldwater, and saltwater fisheries in the affected area and associated significant habitats such as spawning or rearing areas and estuaries.
(2) Describe terrestrial habitats, including wetlands, typical wildlife habitats, and rare, unique, or otherwise significant habitats that might be affected by the proposed action. Describe typical species that have commercial, recreational, or aesthetic value.
(3) Describe and provide the acreage of vegetation cover types that would be affected, including unique ecosystems or communities such as remnant prairie or old-growth forest, or significant individual plants, such as old-growth specimen trees.
(4) Describe the impact of construction and operation on aquatic and terrestrial species and their habitats, including the possibility of a major alteration to ecosystems or biodiversity, and any potential impact on state-listed endangered or threatened species. Describe the impact of maintenance, clearing and treatment of the project area on fish, wildlife, and vegetation. Surveys may be required to determine specific areas of significant habitats or communities of species of special concern to state or local agencies.
(5) Identify all federally listed or proposed endangered or threatened species and critical habitat that potentially occur in the vicinity of the project. Discuss the results of the consultation requirements listed in § 380.13(b) at least through § 380.13(b)(5)(i) and include any written correspondence that resulted from the consultation. The initial application must include the results of any required surveys unless seasonal considerations make this impractical. If species surveys are impractical, there must be field surveys to determine the presence of suitable habitat unless the entire project area is suitable habitat.
(6) Identify all federally listed essential fish habitat (EFH) that potentially occurs in the vicinity of the project. Provide information on all EFH, as identified by the pertinent Federal fishery management plans, that may be adversely affected by the project and the results of abbreviated consultations with NMFS, and any resulting EFH assessments.
(7) Describe site-specific mitigation measures to minimize impacts on fisheries, wildlife, and vegetation.
(8) Include copies of correspondence not provided pursuant to paragraph (e)(5) of this section, containing recommendations from appropriate Federal and state fish and wildlife agencies to avoid or limit impact on wildlife, fisheries, and vegetation, and the applicant's response to the recommendations.
(f)
Resource Report 4—Cultural resources.
This report is required for all applications. In preparing this report,
the applicant must follow the principles in § 380.14 of this part. Guidance on the content and the format for the documentation listed below, as well as professional qualifications of preparers, is detailed in “
Office of Energy Projects' (OEP) Guidelines for Reporting on Cultural Resources Investigations
,” which is available from the Commission Internet home page or from the Commission staff.
(1) Resource Report 4 must contain:
(i) Documentation of the applicant's initial cultural resources consultation, including consultations with Native Americans and other interested persons (if appropriate);
(ii) Overview and Survey Reports, as appropriate;
(iii) Evaluation Report, as appropriate;
(iv) Treatment Plan, as appropriate; and
(v) Written comments from State Historic Preservation Officer(s) (SHPO), Tribal Historic Preservation Officers (THPO), as appropriate, and applicable land-managing agencies on the reports in paragraphs (f)(1)(i)-(iv) of this section.
(2)
Initial filing requirements.
The initial application must include the documentation of initial cultural resource consultation, the Overview and Survey Reports, if required, and written comments from SHPOs, THPOs and land-managing agencies, if available. The initial cultural resources consultations should establish the need for surveys. If surveys are deemed necessary by the consultation with the SHPO/THPO, the survey report must be filed with the application.
(i) If the comments of the SHPOs, THPOs, or land-management agencies are not available at the time the application is filed, they may be filed separately, but they must be filed before a final certificate is issued.
(ii) If landowners deny access to private property and certain areas are not surveyed, the unsurveyed area must be identified by mileposts, and supplemental surveys or evaluations shall be conducted after access is granted. In such circumstances, reports, and treatment plans, if necessary, for those inaccessible lands may be filed after a certificate is issued.
(3) The Evaluation Report and Treatment Plan, if required, for the entire project must be filed before a final certificate is issued.
(i) The Evaluation Report may be combined in a single synthetic report with the Overview and Survey Reports if the SHPOs, THPOs, and land-management agencies allow and if it is available at the time the application is filed.
(ii) In preparing the Treatment Plan, the applicant must consult with the Commission staff, the SHPO, and any applicable THPO and land-management agencies.
(iii) Authorization to implement the Treatment Plan will occur only after the final certificate is issued.
(4) Applicant must request privileged treatment for all material filed with the Commission containing location, character, and ownership information about cultural resources in accordance with § 388.112 of this chapter. The cover and relevant pages or portions of the report should be clearly labeled in bold lettering: “CONTAINS PRIVILEGED INFORMATION—DO NOT RELEASE.”
(5) Except as specified in a final Commission order, or by the Director of the Office of Energy Projects, construction may not begin until all cultural resource reports and plans have been approved.
(g)
Resource Report 5—Socioeconomics.
This report is required only for applications involving significant aboveground facilities, including, among others, conditioning or liquefied natural gas (LNG) plants. It must identify and quantify the impacts of constructing and operating the proposed project on factors affecting towns and counties in the vicinity of the project. Resource Report 5 must:
(1) Describe the socioeconomic impact area.
(2) Evaluate the impact of any substantial immigration of people on governmental facilities and services and plans to reduce the impact on the local infrastructure.
(3) Describe on-site manpower requirements and payroll during construction and operation, including the number of construction personnel who currently reside within the impact area, would commute daily to the site
from outside the impact area, or would relocate temporarily within the impact area.
(4) Determine whether existing housing within the impact area is sufficient to meet the needs of the additional population.
(5) Describe the number and types of residences and businesses that would be displaced by the project, procedures to be used to acquire these properties, and types and amounts of relocation assistance payments.
(6) Conduct a fiscal impact analysis evaluating incremental local government expenditures in relation to incremental local government revenues that would result from construction of the project. Incremental expenditures include, but are not limited to, school operating costs, road maintenance and repair, public safety, and public utility costs.
(h)
Resource Report 6—Geological resources.
This report is required for applications involving LNG facilities and all other applications, except those involving only facilities within the boundaries of existing aboveground facilities, such as a compressor, meter, or regulator station. It must describe geological resources and hazards in the project area that might be directly or indirectly affected by the proposed action or that could place the proposed facilities at risk, the potential effects of those hazards on the facility, and methods proposed to reduce the effects or risks. Resource Report 6 must:
(1) Describe, by milepost, mineral resources that are currently or potentially exploitable;
(2) Describe, by milepost, existing and potential geological hazards and areas of nonroutine geotechnical concern, such as high seismicity areas, active faults, and areas susceptible to soil liquefaction; planned, active, and abandoned mines; karst terrain; and areas of potential ground failure, such as subsidence, slumping, and landsliding. Discuss the hazards posed to the facility from each one.
(3) Describe how the project would be located or designed to avoid or minimize adverse effects to the resources or risk to itself, including geotechnical investigations and monitoring that would be conducted before, during, and after construction. Discuss also the potential for blasting to affect structures, and the measures to be taken to remedy such effects.
(4) Specify methods to be used to prevent project-induced contamination from surface mines or from mine tailings along the right-of-way and whether the project would hinder mine reclamation or expansion efforts.
(5) If the application is for underground storage facilities:
(i) Describe how the applicant would control and monitor the drilling activity of others within the field and buffer zone;
(ii) Describe how the applicant would monitor potential effects of the operation of adjacent storage or production facilities on the proposed facility, and vice versa;
(iii) Describe measures taken to locate and determine the condition of old wells within the field and buffer zone and how the applicant would reduce risk from failure of known and undiscovered wells; and
(iv) Identify and discuss safety and environmental safeguards required by state and Federal drilling regulations.
(i)
Resource Report 7—Soils.
This report is required for all applications except those not involving soil disturbance. It must describe the soils that would be affected by the proposed project, the effect on those soils, and measures proposed to minimize or avoid impact. Resource Report 7 must:
(1) List, by milepost, the soil associations that would be crossed and describe the erosion potential, fertility, and drainage characteristics of each association.
(2) If an aboveground facility site is greater than 5 acres:
(i) List the soil series within the property and the percentage of the property comprised of each series;
(ii) List the percentage of each series which would be permanently disturbed;
(iii) Describe the characteristics of each soil series; and
(iv) Indicate which are classified as prime or unique farmland by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service.
(3) Identify, by milepost, potential impact from: Soil erosion due to water,
wind, or loss of vegetation; soil compaction and damage to soil structure resulting from movement of construction vehicles; wet soils and soils with poor drainage that are especially prone to structural damage; damage to drainage tile systems due to movement of construction vehicles and trenching activities; and interference with the operation of agricultural equipment due to the probability of large stones or blasted rock occurring on or near the surface as a result of construction.
(4) Identify, by milepost, cropland and residential areas where loss of soil fertility due to trenching and backfilling could occur.
(5) Describe proposed mitigation measures to reduce the potential for adverse impact to soils or agricultural productivity. Compare proposed mitigation measures with the staff's current “
Upland Erosion Control, Revegetation and Maintenance Plan,
” which is available from the Commission Internet home page or from the Commission staff, and explain how proposed mitigation measures provide equivalent or greater protections to the environment.
(j)
Resource Report 8—Land use, recreation and aesthetics.
This report is required for all applications except those involving only facilities which are of comparable use at existing compressor, meter, and regulator stations. It must describe the existing uses of land on, and (where specified) within 0.25 mile of, the proposed project and changes to those land uses that would occur if the project is approved. The report shall discuss proposed mitigation measures, including protection and enhancement of existing land use. Resource Report 8 must:
(1) Describe the width and acreage requirements of all construction and permanent rights-of-way and the acreage required for each proposed plant and operational site, including injection or withdrawal wells.
(i) List, by milepost, locations where the proposed right-of-way would be adjacent to existing rights-of-way of any kind.
(ii) Identify, preferably by diagrams, existing rights-of-way that would be used for a portion of the construction or operational right-of-way, the overlap and how much additional width would be required.
(iii) Identify the total amount of land to be purchased or leased for each aboveground facility, the amount of land that would be disturbed for construction and operation of the facility, and the use of the remaining land not required for project operation.
(iv) Identify the size of typical staging areas and expanded work areas, such as those at railroad, road, and waterbody crossings, and the size and location of all pipe storage yards and access roads.
(2) Identify, by milepost, the existing use of lands crossed by the proposed pipeline, or on or adjacent to each proposed plant and operational site.
(3) Describe planned development on land crossed or within 0.25 mile of proposed facilities, the time frame (if available) for such development, and proposed coordination to minimize impacts on land use. Planned development means development which is included in a master plan or is on file with the local planning board or the county.
(4) Identify, by milepost and length of crossing, the area of direct effect of each proposed facility and operational site on sugar maple stands, orchards and nurseries, landfills, operating mines, hazardous waste sites, state wild and scenic rivers, state or local designated trails, nature preserves, game management areas, remnant prairie, old-growth forest, national or state forests, parks, golf courses, designated natural, recreational or scenic areas, or registered natural landmarks, Native American religious sites and traditional cultural properties to the extent they are known to the public at large, and reservations, lands identified under the Special Area Management Plan of the Office of Coastal Zone Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and lands owned or controlled by Federal or state agencies or private preservation groups. Also identify if any of those areas are located within 0.25 mile of any proposed facility.
(5) Identify, by milepost, all residences and buildings within 50 feet of the proposed pipeline construction right-of-way and the distance of the
residence or building from the right-of-way. Provide survey drawings or alignment sheets to illustrate the location of the facilities in relation to the buildings.
(6) Describe any areas crossed by or within 0.25 mile of the proposed pipeline or plant and operational sites which are included in, or are designated for study for inclusion in: The National Wild and Scenic Rivers System (16 U.S.C. 1271); The National Trails System (16 U.S.C. 1241); or a wilderness area designated under the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1132).
(7) For facilities within a designated coastal zone management area, provide a consistency determination or evidence that the applicant has requested a consistency determination from the state's coastal zone management program.
(8) Describe the impact the project will have on present uses of the affected area as identified above, including commercial uses, mineral resources, recreational areas, public health and safety, and the aesthetic value of the land and its features. Describe any temporary or permanent restrictions on land use resulting from the project.
(9) Describe mitigation measures intended for all special use areas identified under paragraphs (j)(2) through (6) of this section.
(10) Describe proposed typical mitigation measures for each residence that is within 50 feet of the edge of the pipeline construction right-of-way, as well as any proposed residence-specific mitigation. Describe how residential property, including for example, fences, driveways, stone walls, sidewalks, water supply, and septic systems, would be restored. Describe compensation plans for temporary and permanent rights-of-way and the eminent domain process for the affected areas.
(11) Describe measures proposed to mitigate the aesthetic impact of the facilities especially for aboveground facilities such as compressor or meter stations.
(12) Demonstrate that applications for rights-of-way or other proposed land use have been or soon will be filed with Federal land-management agencies with jurisdiction over land that would be affected by the project.
(k)
Resource Report 9—Air and noise quality.
This report is required for applications involving compressor facilities at new or existing stations, and for all new LNG facilities. It must identify the effects of the project on the existing air quality and noise environment and describe proposed measures to mitigate the effects. Resource Report 9 must:
(1) Describe the existing air quality, including background levels of nitrogen dioxide and other criteria pollutants which may be emitted above EPA-identified significance levels.
(2) Quantitatively describe existing noise levels at noise-sensitive areas, such as schools, hospitals, or residences and include any areas covered by relevant state or local noise ordinances.
(i) Report existing noise levels as the L
eq
(day), L
eq
(night), and L
dn
and include the basis for the data or estimates.
(ii) For existing compressor stations, include the results of a sound level survey at the site property line and nearby noise-sensitive areas while the compressors are operated at full load.
(iii) For proposed new compressor station sites, measure or estimate the existing ambient sound environment based on current land uses and activities.
(iv) Include a plot plan that identifies the locations and duration of noise measurements, the time of day, weather conditions, wind speed and direction, engine load, and other noise sources present during each measurement.
(3) Estimate the impact of the project on air quality, including how existing regulatory standards would be met.
(i) Provide the emission rate of nitrogen oxides from existing and proposed facilities, expressed in pounds per hour and tons per year for maximum operating conditions, include supporting calculations, emission factors, fuel consumption rates, and annual hours of operation.
(ii) For major sources of air emissions (as defined by the Environmental Protection Agency), provide copies of applications for permits to construct
(and operate, if applicable) or for applicability determinations under regulations for the prevention of significant air quality deterioration and subsequent determinations.
(4) Provide a quantitative estimate of the impact of the project on noise levels at noise-sensitive areas, such as schools, hospitals, or residences.
(i) Include step-by-step supporting calculations or identify the computer program used to model the noise levels, the input and raw output data and all assumptions made when running the model, far-field sound level data for maximum facility operation, and the source of the data.
(ii) Include sound pressure levels for unmuffled engine inlets and exhausts, engine casings, and cooling equipment; dynamic insertion loss for all mufflers; sound transmission loss for all compressor building components, including walls, roof, doors, windows and ventilation openings; sound attenuation from the station to nearby noise-sensitive areas; the manufacturer's name, the model number, the performance rating; and a description of each noise source and noise control component to be employed at the proposed compressor station. For proposed compressors the initial filing must include at least the proposed horsepower, type of compression, and energy source for the compressor.
(iii) Far-field sound level data measured from similar units in service elsewhere, when available, may be substituted for manufacturer's far-field sound level data.
(iv) If specific noise control equipment has not been chosen, include a schedule for submitting the data prior to certification.
(v) The estimate must demonstrate that the project will comply with applicable noise regulations and show how the facility will meet the following requirements:
(A) The noise attributable to any new compressor station, compression added to an existing station, or any modification, upgrade or update of an existing station, must not exceed a day- night sound level (L
dn
) of 55 dBA at any pre-existing noise-sensitive area (such as schools, hospitals, or residences).
(B) New compressor stations or modifications of existing stations shall not result in a perceptible increase in vibration at any noise-sensitive area.
(5) Describe measures and manufacturer's specifications for equipment proposed to mitigate impact to air and noise quality, including emission control systems, installation of filters, mufflers, or insulation of piping and buildings, and orientation of equipment away from noise-sensitive areas.
(l)
Resource Report 10—Alternatives.
This report is required for all applications. It must describe alternatives to the project and compare the environmental impacts of such alternatives to those of the proposal. The discussion must demonstrate how environmental benefits and costs were weighed against economic benefits and costs, and technological and procedural constraints. The potential for each alternative to meet project deadlines and the environmental consequences of each alternative shall be discussed. Resource Report 10 must:
(1) Discuss the “no action” alternative and the potential for accomplishing the proposed objectives through the use of other systems and/or energy conservation. Provide an analysis of the relative environmental benefits and costs for each alternative.
(2) Describe alternative routes or locations considered for each facility during the initial screening for the project.
(i) For alternative routes considered in the initial screening for the project but eliminated, describe the environmental characteristics of each route or site, and the reasons for rejecting it. Identify the location of such alternatives on maps of sufficient scale to depict their location and relationship to the proposed action, and the relationship of the pipeline to existing rights-of-way.
(ii) For alternative routes or locations considered for more in-depth consideration, describe the environmental characteristics of each route or site and the reasons for rejecting it. Provide comparative tables showing the
differences in environmental characteristics for the alternative and proposed action. The location of any alternatives in this paragraph shall be provided on maps equivalent to those required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(m)
Resource Report 11—Reliability and safety.
This report is required for applications involving new or recommissioned LNG facilities. Information previously filed with the Commission need not be refiled if the applicant verifies its continued validity. This report shall address the potential hazard to the public from failure of facility components resulting from accidents or natural catastrophes, how these events would affect reliability, and what procedures and design features have been used to reduce potential hazards. Resource Report 11 must:
(1) Describe measures proposed to protect the public from failure of the proposed facilities (including coordination with local agencies).
(2) Discuss hazards, the environmental impact, and service interruptions which could reasonably ensue from failure of the proposed facilities.
(3) Discuss design and operational measures to avoid or reduce risk.
(4) Discuss contingency plans for maintaining service or reducing downtime.
(5) Describe measures used to exclude the public from hazardous areas. Discuss measures used to minimize problems arising from malfunctions and accidents (with estimates of probability of occurrence) and identify standard procedures for protecting services and public safety during maintenance and breakdowns.
(n)
Resource Report 12—PCB contamination.
This report is required for applications involving the replacement, abandonment by removal, or abandonment in place of pipeline facilities determined to have polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in excess of 50 ppm in pipeline liquids. Resource Report 12 must:
(1) Provide a statement that activities would comply with an approved EPA disposal permit, with the dates of issuance and expiration specified, or with the requirements of the Toxic Substances Control Act.
(2) For compressor station modifications on sites that have been determined to have soils contaminated with PCBs, describe the status of remediation efforts completed to date.
(o)
Resource Report 13—Engineering and design material.
This report is required for construction of new liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities, or the recommissioning of existing LNG facilities. If the recommissioned facility is existing and is not being replaced, relocated, or significantly altered, resubmittal of information already on file with the Commission is unnecessary. Resource Report 13 must:
(1) Provide a detailed plot plan showing the location of all major components to be installed, including compression, pretreatment, liquefaction, storage, transfer piping, vaporization, truck loading/unloading, vent stacks, pumps, and auxiliary or appurtenant service facilities.
(2) Provide a detailed layout of the fire protection system showing the location of fire water pumps, piping, hydrants, hose reels, dry chemical systems, high expansion foam systems, and auxiliary or appurtenant service facilities.
(3) Provide a layout of the hazard detection system showing the location of combustible-gas detectors, fire detectors, heat detectors, smoke or combustion product detectors, and low temperature detectors. Identify those detectors that activate automatic shutdowns and the equipment that would shut down. Include all safety provisions incorporated in the plant design, including automatic and manually activated emergency shutdown systems.
(4) Provide a detailed layout of the spill containment system showing the location of impoundments, sumps, subdikes, channels, and water removal systems.
(5) Provide manufacturer's specifications, drawings, and literature on the fail-safe shut-off valve for each loading area at a marine terminal (if applicable).
(6) Provide a detailed layout of the fuel gas system showing all taps with process components.
(7) Provide copies of company, engineering firm, or consultant studies of a
conceptual nature that show the engineering planning or design approach to the construction of new facilities or plants.
(8) Provide engineering information on major process components related to the first six items above, which include (as applicable) function, capacity, type, manufacturer, drive system (horsepower, voltage), operating pressure, and temperature.
(9) Provide manuals and construction drawings for LNG storage tank(s).
(10) Provide up-to-date piping and instrumentation diagrams. Include a description of the instrumentation and control philosophy, type of instrumentation (pneumatic, electronic), use of computer technology, and control room display and operation. Also, provide an overall schematic diagram of the entire process flow system, including maps, materials, and energy balances.
(11) Provide engineering information on the plant's electrical power generation system, distribution system, emergency power system, uninterruptible power system, and battery backup system.
(12) Identify all codes and standards under which the plant (and marine terminal, if applicable) will be sited, designed, constructed, tested, monitored, operated, and maintained, and any special considerations or safety provisions that were applied to the design of plant components.
(13) Provide a list of all permits or approvals from local, state, Federal, or Native American groups or Indian agencies required prior to and during construction of the plant, and the status of each, including the date filed, the date issued, and any known obstacles to approval. Include a description of data records required for submission to such agencies and transcripts of any public hearings by such agencies. Also provide copies of any correspondence relating to the actions by all, or any, of these agencies regarding all required approvals.
(14) Identify all Federal, state, and local regulations and requirements that apply to the siting, design, construction, testing, monitoring, operation, and maintenance of the proposed project and explain how the proposed project will comply with the applicable Federal regulations, including codes and standards incorporated by reference into Federal regulations.
(15) Provide information to demonstrate that the proposed facilities will be sited, designed, constructed, and operated to maintain reliability and will not significantly impact public safety given geotechnical conditions and the occurrence of a natural hazard identified in paragraphs (o)(15)(i) through (iii) of this section. Site information must provide geotechnical studies and natural hazard studies based on the site location, which must provide impacts and magnitude of historical events and projected impacts and magnitude of events based on projected prescriptive/deterministic events and projected probabilistic events corresponding to mean recurrence intervals. Design information must provide the basis of design supported by site information, including design parameters and criteria and preliminary resultant design loads used in the geotechnical and structural design of LNG facilities. Construction and operation information must also include discussion of quality assurance and quality control plans, monitoring programs, and action programs developed in preparation of and response to geotechnical and natural hazards. All information provided must, at a minimum, demonstrate compliance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards, and identify any applicable state and local requirements for the siting, design, construction, testing, monitoring, operation, and maintenance used to safeguard against significant impacts caused by geotechnical conditions and natural hazards.
(i)
General information.
Provide site information that includes:
(A) A description of all structures, systems, and components, including, at a minimum, the layout of all proposed above ground and below ground structures, systems, and components including temporary access roads used during construction and permanent roads used during operation.
(B) The design classification for each structure, system, and component in
accordance with, at a minimum, all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards.
(C) The derivation and values for risk category and mean recurrence intervals that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards.
(D) A description of all load combinations for each design classification for all structures, systems, and components that are, at a minimum, in accordance with design methods and all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards.
(E) A description of all preliminary dead loads that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards, and include, at a minimum, weight of materials of construction of structures, systems, and components; weight of any hydrostatic test fluid service within structures, systems, and components during commissioning; weight of fluid services within structures, systems, and components during startup, normal operation, abnormal operation, and shutdown; and soil and hydrostatic pressure loads and potential uplift of below ground structures, systems, and components.
(F) A description of all preliminary live loads that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards, and include, at a minimum, dynamic loads from movement during transportation of structures, systems, and components; induced loads from construction equipment atop of below ground structures, systems, and components; uniform and concentrated loads from construction and operation personnel and equipment on structures, systems, and components; and crane loads for structures, systems, and components.
(G) A description of all preliminary loads induced from natural hazards for all structures, systems, and components that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards as described in paragraph (o)(15)(iii) of this section.
(H) A description of all mitigation measures to protect against natural hazards (like earthquakes) including, at a minimum, a discussion of the proposed site elevation and design of any storm walls or barriers relative to information described in paragraphs (o)(15)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(I) A description of a natural hazard preparedness and action program, which includes facilitating timely decisions concerning the present or future state of the LNG facility that address, at a minimum, the natural hazards described in paragraph (o)(15)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Geotechnical information.
Provide a geotechnical investigation that includes:
(A) A summary of the site investigation that lists the applicant's exploratory program for the site and the types of subsurface investigations performed and planned to be performed for the site.
(B) A list and description of all in situ tests performed, standards used for tests, and their results including all standard penetration tests, cone penetration tests (static and dynamic), test pits, trenches, borings, rock coring, soil sampling, plate load tests, and in situ shear strength tests.
(C) A plot plan that identifies the number, location, spacing, cross-sections, and depths of each in situ test.
(D) A description of completed surveys, standards used for surveys, and the results of surveys that were conducted to obtain continuous lateral and depth information for the evaluation of subsurface conditions including all seismic refraction and reflection surveys.
(E) A description of the applicant's laboratory testing program that includes the treatment of samples, the preparation of the soil specimen for testing, the techniques to detect sample disturbance, and the laboratory testing specifications.
(F) A list and description of all laboratory tests performed, standards used for tests, and their results, including results from all soil classification tests, index tests, strength and compressibility tests, permeability tests, and soil corrosivity tests.
(G) A description of proposed mitigation measures for soil improvement or other mitigation that would remediate
low bearing strength, poor consolidation, poor permeability, high corrosivity, or other geotechnical issues discovered during in situ or laboratory tests.
(H) A discussion of subsurface conditions and profiles based on the results of the subsurface exploration and field test conducted at the site. Subsurface profiles must identify groundwater conditions and the physicochemical properties of the groundwater, soil/rock layers and parameters, and various soil strata in various cross-section drawings spanning across the site including the LNG storage tank areas.
(I) A description of soil conditions that indicate compressible or expansive soils, corrosive soils, collapsible soils, erodible soils, liquefaction-susceptible soils, frost-heave susceptible soils, frozen soils, sanitary landfill, or contaminated soils.
(J) An analysis of actual or potential hazards (
e.g.,
landslides, subsidence, uplift, capable faults, or collapse resulting from natural features such as tectonic depressions and cavernous or karst terrains) to the site.
(K) A discussion of the relationship between the regional and local geology and the site location.
(L) An evaluation and discussion of surface displacement caused by faulting or seismically induced lateral spreading or lateral flow, regional subsidence, local subsidence, and heave.
(M) Drawings of existing and proposed site elevation contours.
(N) A slope-stability analysis, including slope stabilization methods, sloping topography for the site, recommendations for slope stability, static and seismic stability, and factor of safety.
(O) Recommendations for site improvement to increase bearing capacity, reduce the potential of liquefaction and lateral spreading, and mitigate poor or unusual soil conditions.
(P) Recommendations for site improvement to mitigate soil contaminants and shoreline erosion control.
(Q) An evaluation and discussion of the expected total settlement over the design life of the facilities that considers soil conditions, regional subsidence, and local subsidence.
(R) Recommendations for shallow foundations, including, at a minimum, ultimate bearing capacity, factor of safety, allowable bearing capacity, total and differential settlement criteria, liquefaction settlements, settlement monitoring, and lateral resistance.
(S) Recommendations for deep foundations, including, at a minimum, acceptable foundation type, bearing capacity, total pile capacities, axial capacity, lateral capacity, group effects, down-drag, factor of safety, settlement of single pile and pile groups, lateral movement of pile groups, pile installation, pile cap, indicator piles and pile load test programs, static axial pile load test, lateral load test, and dynamic pile load test.
(T) A summary of information needed to establish broad design parameters and conclusions used to determine the proposed layout and design of buildings, structures, and support facilities.
(U) A description of the implementation of the geotechnical monitoring system for the site and structures, including inclinometer, extensometers, piezometer, tiltmeter, settlement monuments or cells, pressure and load cells, and crack monitoring devices.
(iii)
Natural hazard information.
Provide studies, basis of design, and plans for all natural hazards, including, at a minimum, each natural hazard in paragraphs (o)(15)(iii)(A) through (G) of this section:
(A)
Seismic information.
Provide a discussion of seismic design and hazards analysis that includes:
(
1
) The seismic design basis and criteria that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements, and applicable codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.
(
2
) A description of seismic setting and seismic hazard investigation.
(
3
) A description of seismological characteristics of the geographical region within 100 miles of the site.
(
4
) A description of capable faults, including any part of a fault within five miles of the site, the fault characteristics in the site vicinity, the methods and techniques used for fault analysis and investigations, and the potential effect of fault displacement on structures, systems, and components.
(
5
) Derivation of the site class describing the soil conditions and supportive geotechnical studies that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards.
(
6
) Criteria used to determine potential soil liquefaction, subsidence, fault rupture, seismic slope stability, and lateral spreading.
(
7
) A historical ground motion analysis, including a description of past seismic events of Modified Mercalli Intensity greater than IV or magnitude greater than 3.0 within 100 miles of the site, including date of seismic events, magnitude of seismic events, distance from site to epicenter of seismic events, depth of seismic events, and resultant ground motions recorded or estimated at site location.
(
8
) A site-specific ground motion analysis based on ground motions projected from the U.S. Geological Survey national seismic maps and any deterministic seismic hazard analyses (DSHA) and probabilistic seismic hazard analyses (PSHA).
(
9
) Derivation of all ground motions used for the Operating Basis Earthquake (OBE), Safe Shutdown Earthquake (SSE), site-specific design earthquake (DE), site-specific peak ground motion (PGA), and aftershock level earthquake (ALE) that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards.
(
10
) A list of OBE, SSE, and ALE site-specific ground motion spectral values for 0.5%, 1%, 2%, 5%, 7%, 10%, 15%, and 20% damping during all periods range.
(
11
) The DE seismic coefficients and seismic design parameters, including the spectral response acceleration and five percent damped design spectral response acceleration parameters at a short-period, at a period of one second, and at other periods; short-period site coefficient and long-period site coefficient; importance factor; component importance factor; fundamental period of the structure; long-period transition period; and response modification coefficient that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards.
(
12
) A description of site-specific response spectrum analysis method, time history analysis method, or equivalent static load analysis.
(
13
) A seismic analysis for soil-structure interaction that is, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards, and includes, at a minimum, a discussion of the modeling methods and the factors considered in the modeling methods, including the extent of embedment, the layering of the soil/rock strata, and the boundary of soil-structure model.
(
14
) A comparison of seismic responses used for each design classification for all structures, systems, and components.
(
15
) A list of seismic hazard curves of spectral accelerations for all periods for the site.
(
16
) Vertical response spectra for seismic design and ratio to horizontal response spectra.
(
17
) Natural frequencies and responses for each LNG tank system and associated safety systems and associated structures, systems, and components.
(
18
) A description of procedures used for structural analyses, including consideration of incorporating the stiffness, mass, and damping characteristics of the structural systems into the analytical models.
(
19
) A description of determination of seismic overturning moments and sliding forces for each LNG tank system and associated safety related structures, systems, and components, including consideration of the three components of input motion and the simultaneous action of vertical and horizontal seismic forces.
(
20
) A description of design procedure for seismically isolated structures, systems, and components.
(
21
) A description of seismic design basis and criteria for the LNG storage tank(s) and foundation(s). The seismic design basis and criteria must include the flexibility of the tank shell(s) and its influence on the natural frequencies of the tank(s), liquid level, effects of liquid motion or pressure changes; minimum design freeboard; sloshing and impulsive loads; seismic coefficients; importance factor(s); reduction
factor(s); slosh height(s); sloshing periods of LNG storage tank(s); global stability of the tank(s) in terms of the potential for overturning and sliding; differential displacement between the tank(s) and the first support; and a total settlement monitoring program for the tank foundation(s).
(
22
) A description of seismic monitoring system in accordance with, at a minimum, all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards, including any triaxial ground motion recorder installed to register the free-field ground motion and additional triaxial ground motion recorders on each LNG tank system foundation, LNG tank roof, and associated safety related structures, systems, and components. The proposed seismic monitoring must include the installation locations on a plot plan; description of the triaxial strong motion recorders or other seismic instrumentation; the proposed alarm set points, and operating procedures (including emergency operating procedures) for control room operators in response to such alarms/data obtained from seismic instrumentation; and maintenance procedures.
(
23
) A cross reference to potential for earthquake generated tsunamis and seiches provided in paragraph (o)(15)(iii)(B) of this section, earthquake generated floods in paragraph (o)(15)(iii)(C) of this section, earthquake generated landslides in paragraph (o)(15)(iii)(G) of this section, and earthquake generated releases and fires in paragraph (m) of this section.
(B)
Tsunami and seiche information.
Provide a discussion of tsunami and seiche design and hazards that includes:
(
1
) The tsunami and seismic design basis and criteria with a description of the applicable requirements and guidelines, and generally accepted codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.
(
2
) The seiche design inundation and run-up elevations and corresponding return periods for all structures, systems, and components.
(
3
) The maximum considered tsunami (MCT) inundation and run-up elevation for the site, including the maximum considered earthquake (MCE) level ground motions at the site if the MCE is the triggering source of the MCT.
(
4
) A comparison of design loads of seiche water inundation elevations with inundation elevation corresponding to return periods of MCE and MCT for all structures, systems, and components.
(
5
) The Tsunami Risk Category for the site and a description of potential tsunami generation by seismic sources, and the prevention and mitigation plan for potential tsunami and seiche hazards.
(
6
) A cross reference to potential tsunami and seiche generated floods in paragraph (o)(15)(iii)(C) of this section, tsunami and seiche generated landslides in paragraph (o)(15)(iii)(G) of this section, and tsunami and seiche generated releases and fires in paragraph (m) of this section.
(C)
Flood information.
Provide a discussion of flood design criteria and hazards that includes:
(
1
) The floods design basis and criteria with references to applicable requirements and guidelines, and generally accepted codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.
(
2
) A description of flooding potential in the region surrounding the site due to one or more natural causes such as storm surge, tides, wind generated waves, meteorological tsunamis or seiches, extreme precipitation, or other natural hazard events that have a common cause.
(
3
) A comparison of flood design loads corresponding to return periods of 10,000-year, 5,000-year, 1,000-year, 500-year, and 100-year for all structures, systems, and components.
(
4
) A discussion of final designed site elevations and storm surge walls or floodwalls for the site that includes tsunami considerations, flood design considerations, site total settlements, sea level rise, subsidence.
(D)
Hurricane information.
Provide a discussion of hurricanes and other meteorological events design criteria and hazards that includes:
(
1
) The wind and storm surge design basis and criteria that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements, and applicable codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.
(
2
) A comparison of design wind loads for both sustained and three-second gusts and storm surge elevations, including consideration for still water, wind/wave run-up effects, and crest elevations, with hurricanes and other meteorological events at the site location corresponding to return periods of 10,000-year, 5,000-year, 1,000-year, 500-year, and 100-year for all structures, systems, and components.
(
3
) A discussion of historic hurricane frequencies and hurricane categories equivalent on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale at the site and associated wind speeds and storm surge.
(
4
) The design regional subsidence that includes a discussion of the elevation change used to account for regional subsidence for the design life of the facilities at the site.
(E)
Tornado information.
Provide a discussion of tornado design criteria and hazards that includes:
(
1
) The tornadoes design basis and criteria that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements, and applicable codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.
(
2
) A comparison of tornado design loads corresponding to return periods of 10,000-year, 5,000-year, 1,000-year, 500-year, and 100-year for all structures, systems, and components.
(
3
) A discussion of historic tornado frequencies and tornado categories as classified on the Enhanced Fujita (EF) Scale at the site and associated wind speeds.
(
4
) A discussion of tornado loads determination and design procedure.
(
5
) A comparison of impact between wind loads and tornado loads for the site.
(F)
Rain, ice, snow, and related precipitation information.
Provide a discussion of rain, ice, snow, and related precipitation design criteria and hazards that includes:
(
1
) The rain, ice, and snow design basis and criteria that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements, and applicable codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.
(
2
) The identification of stormwater flows, outfalls, and stormwater management systems for all surfaces, including spill containment system with sump pumps or other water removal systems.
(
3
) The comparison of rain, ice, and snow design loads with rainfall rates, snow loads, and ice loads corresponding to return periods of 10,000-year, 5,000-year, 1,000-year, 500-year, and 100-year for all structures, systems, and components.
(
4
) A discussion of historic ice and blizzard events and frequencies and other ice and snow events at the site and associated loads.
(G)
Landslides, wildfires, volcanic activity, and geomagnetism information.
Provide a discussion of landslides, wildfires, volcanic activity, and geomagnetism design criteria and hazards that includes:
(
1
) The landslides, wildfires, volcanic activity, and geomagnetism design basis and criteria that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements, and applicable codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.
(
2
) A discussion of historic landslide, wildfire, volcano activity, and geomagnetic disturbance risks and intensities at the site.
(
3
) A description of capable volcanoes, volcanic characteristics of the region, and a discussion of potentially hazardous volcanic phenomena considerations.
[Order 603, 64 FR 26611, May 14, 1999, as amended by Order 603-A, 64 FR 54537, Oct. 7, 1999; Order 609, 64 FR 57392, Oct. 25, 1999; Order 699, 72 FR 45328, Aug. 14, 2007; Order 756, 77 FR 4895, Feb. 1, 2012; Order 900, 88 FR 74042, Oct. 30, 2023]
§ 380.13
Compliance with the Endangered Species Act.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Listed species
and
critical habitat
have the same meaning as provided in 50 CFR 402.02.
(2)
Project area
means any area subject to construction activities (for example, material storage sites, temporary work areas, and new access roads) necessary to install or abandon the facilities.
(b)
Procedures for informal consultation
—(1)
Designation of non-Federal representative.
The project sponsor is designated as the Commission's non-Federal representative for purposes of informal consultations with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (ESA).
(2)
Consultation requirement.
(i) Prior to the filing of the environmental report specified in § 380.12 or § 380.16, as applicable, the project sponsor must contact the appropriate regional or field office of the FWS or the NMFS, or both if appropriate, to initiate informal consultations, unless it is proceeding pursuant to a blanket clearance issued by the FWS and/or NMFS which is less than 1 year old and the clearance does not specify more frequent consultation.
(ii) If a blanket clearance is more than 1 year old or less than 1 year old and specifies more frequent consultations, or if the project sponsor is not proceeding pursuant to a blanket clearance, the project sponsor must request a list of federally listed or proposed species and designated or proposed critical habitat that may be present in the project area, or provide the consulted agency with such a list for its concurrence.
(iii) The consulted agency will provide a species and critical habitat list or concur with the species list provided within 30 days of its receipt of the initial request. In the event that the consulted agency does not provide this information within this time period, the project sponsor may notify the Director of the Office of Energy Projects and continue with the remaining procedures of this section.
(3)
End of informal consultation.
(i) At any time during the informal consultations, the consulted agency may determine or confirm:
(A) That no listed or proposed species, or designated or proposed critical habitat, occurs in the project area; or
(B) That the project is not likely to adversely affect a listed species or critical habitat;
(ii) If the consulted agency provides the determination or confirmation described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, no further consultation is required.
(4)
Potential impact to proposed species.
(i) If the consulted agency, pursuant to informal consultations, initially determines that any species proposed to be listed, or proposed critical habitat, occurs in the project area, the project sponsor must confer with the consulted agency on methods to avoid or reduce the potential impact.
(ii) The project sponsor shall include in its proposal, a discussion of any mitigating measures recommended through the consultation process.
(5)
Continued informal consultations for listed species.
(i) If the consulted agency initially determines, pursuant to the informal consultations, that a listed species or designated critical habitat may occur in the project area, the project sponsor must continue informal consultations with the consulted agency to determine if the proposed project may affect the species or designated critical habitat. These consultations may include discussions with experts (including experts provided by the consulted agency), habitat identification, field surveys, biological analyses, and the formulation of mitigation measures. If the provided information indicates that the project is not likely to adversely affect a listed species or critical habitat, the consulting agency will provide a letter of concurrence which completes informal consultation.
(ii) The project sponsor must prepare a Biological Assessment unless the consulted agency indicates that the proposed project is not likely to adversely affect a specific listed species or its designated critical habitat. The Biological Assessment must contain the following information for each species contained in the consulted agency's species list:
(A) Life history and habitat requirements;
(B) Results of detailed surveys to determine if individuals, populations, or suitable, unoccupied habitat exists in the proposed project's area of effect;
(C) Potential impacts, both beneficial and negative, that could result from the construction and operation of the proposed project, or disturbance associated with the abandonment, if applicable; and
(D) Proposed mitigation that would eliminate or minimize these potential impacts.
(iii) All surveys must be conducted by qualified biologists and must use FWS and/or NMFS approved survey methodology. In addition, the Biological Assessment must include the following information:
(A) Name(s) and qualifications of person(s) conducting the survey;
(B) Survey methodology;
(C) Date of survey(s); and
(D) Detailed and site-specific identification of size and location of all areas surveyed.
(iv) The project sponsor must provide a draft Biological Assessment directly to the environmental staff of the Office of Energy Projects for review and comment and/or submission to the consulted agency. If the consulted agency fails to provide formal comments on the Biological Assessment to the project sponsor within 30 days of its receipt, as specified in 50 CFR 402.120, the project sponsor may notify the Director, OEP, and follow the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section.
(v) The consulted agency's comments on the Biological Assessment's determination must be filed with the Commission.
(c)
Notification to Director.
In the event that the consulted agency fails to respond to requests by the project sponsor under paragraph (b) of this section, the project sponsor must notify the Director of the Office of Energy Projects. The notification must include all information, reports, letters, and other correspondence prepared pursuant to this section. The Director will determine whether:
(1) Additional informal consultation is required;
(2) Formal consultation must be initiated under paragraph (d) of this section; or
(3) Construction may proceed.
(d)
Procedures for formal consultation.
(1) In the event that formal consultation is required pursuant to paragraphs (b)(5)(v) or (c)(2) of this section, the Commission staff will initiate formal consultation with the FWS and/or NMFS, as appropriate, and will request that the consulted agency designate a lead Regional Office, lead Field/District Office, and Project Manager, as necessary, to facilitate the formal consultation process. In addition, the Commission will designate a contact for formal consultation purposes.
(2) During formal consultation, the consulted agency, the Commission, and the project sponsor will coordinate and consult to determine potential impacts and mitigation which can be implemented to minimize impacts. The Commission and the consulted agency will schedule coordination meetings and/or field visits as necessary.
(3) The formal consultation period will last no longer than 90 days, unless the consulted agency, the Commission, and project sponsor mutually agree to an extension of this time period.
(4) The consulted agency will provide the Commission with a Biological Opinion on the proposed project, as specified in 50 CFR 402.14(e), within 45 days of the completion of formal consultation.
[Order 603, 64 FR 26617, May 14, 1999, as amended by Order 699, 72 FR 45328, Aug. 14, 2007; Order 1977, 89 FR 46734, May 29, 2024]
§ 380.14
Compliance with the National Historic Preservation Act.
(a) Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act, as amended (54 U.S.C. 306108) (NHPA), requires the Commission to take into account the effect of a proposed project on any historic property and to afford the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Council) an opportunity to comment on projects if required under 36 CFR 800. The project sponsor, as a non-Federal party, assists the Commission in meeting its obligations under NHPA section 106 and the implementing regulations at 36 CFR part 800 by following the procedures at § 380.12(f) or § 380.16(f), as applicable. The project sponsor may contact the Commission at any time for assistance. The Commission will review the resultant filings.
(1) The Commission's NHPA section 106 responsibilities apply to public and private lands, unless subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The project sponsor will assist the Commission in taking into account the views of interested parties, Native Americans, and tribal leaders.
(2) If Federal or Tribal land is affected by a proposed project, the project sponsor shall adhere to any requirements for cultural resources studies of the applicable Federal land- managing agencies on Federal lands and any tribal requirements on Tribal lands. The project sponsor must identify, in Resource Report 4 filed with the application, the status of cultural resources studies on Federal or Tribal lands, as applicable.
(3) The project sponsor must consult with the SHPO(s) and THPOs, if appropriate. If the SHPO or THPO declines to consult with the project sponsor, the project sponsor shall not continue with consultations, except as instructed by the Director of the Office of Energy Projects.
(4) If the project is covered by an agreement document among the Commission, Council, SHPO(s), THPO(s), land-managing agencies, project sponsors, and interested persons, as appropriate, then that agreement will provide for compliance with NHPA section 106, as applicable.
(b) [Reserved]
[Order 603, 64 FR 26618, May 14, 1999, as amended by Order 699, 72 FR 45329, Aug. 14, 2007; Order 756, 77 FR 4895, Feb. 1, 2012; Order 1977, 89 FR 46734, May 29, 2024]
§ 380.15
Siting and maintenance requirements.
(a)
Avoidance or minimization of effects.
The siting, construction, and maintenance of facilities shall be undertaken in a way that avoids or minimizes effects on scenic, historic, wildlife, and recreational values.
(b)
Landowner consideration.
The desires of landowners should be taken into account in the planning, locating, clearing, and maintenance of rights-of-way and the construction of facilities on their property, so long as the result is consistent with applicable requirements of law, including laws relating to land-use and any requirements imposed by the Commission.
(c)
Landowner notification.
(1) (i) No activity described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section that involves ground disturbance is authorized unless a company makes a good faith effort to notify in writing each affected landowner, as noted in the most recent county/city tax records as receiving the tax notice, whose property will be used and subject to ground disturbance as a result of the proposed activity, at least five days prior to commencing any activity under this section. A landowner may waive the five-day prior notice requirement in writing, so long as the notice has been provided. No landowner notice under this section is required:
(A) If all ground disturbance will be confined entirely to areas within the fence line of an existing above-ground site of facilities operated by the company; or
(B) For activities done for safety, DOT compliance, or environmental or unplanned maintenance reasons that are not foreseen and that require immediate attention by the company.
(ii) The notification shall include at least:
(A) A brief description of the facilities to be constructed or replaced and the effect the activity may have on the landowner's property;
(B) The name and phone number of a company representative who is knowledgeable about the project; and
(C) A description of the Commission's Landowner Helpline, which an affected person may contact to seek an informal resolution of a dispute as explained in § 1b.22(a) of this chapter and the Landowner Helpline number.
(2) “Affected landowners” include owners of interests, as noted in the most recent county/city tax records as receiving tax notice, in properties (including properties subject to rights-of-way and easements for facility sites, compressor stations, well sites, and all above-ground facilities, and access roads, pipe and contractor yards, and temporary work space) that will be directly affected by (
i.e.,
used) and subject to ground disturbance as a result of activity under this section.
(d)
Safety regulations.
The requirements of this paragraph do not affect a project sponsor's obligations to comply with safety regulations of the U.S. Department of Transportation and recognized safe engineering practices for Natural Gas Act projects and the National Electric Safety Code for section 216 Federal Power Act projects.
(e)
Pipeline and electric transmission facilities construction.
(1) The use, widening, or extension of existing rights-of-way must be considered in locating proposed facilities.
(2) In locating proposed facilities, the project sponsor shall, to the extent practicable, avoid places listed on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of Historic Places; natural landmarks listed on the National Register of Natural Landmarks; officially designated parks; wetlands; and scenic, recreational, and wildlife lands. If rights-of-way must be routed near or through such places, attempts should be made to minimize visibility from areas of public view and to preserve the character and existing environment of the area.
(3) Rights-of-way should avoid forested areas and steep slopes where practical.
(4) Rights-of-way clearing should be kept to the minimum width necessary.
(5) In selecting a method to clear rights-of-way, soil stability and protection of natural vegetation and adjacent resources should be taken into account.
(6) Trees and vegetation cleared from rights-of-way in areas of public view should be disposed of without undue delay.
(7) Remaining trees and shrubs should not be unnecessarily damaged.
(8) Long foreground views of cleared rights-of-way through wooded areas that are visible from areas of public view should be avoided.
(9) Where practical, rights-of-way should avoid crossing hills and other high points at their crests where the crossing is in a forested area and the resulting notch is clearly visible in the foreground from areas of public view.
(10) Screen plantings should be employed where rights-of-way enter forested areas from a clearing and where the clearing is plainly visible in the foreground from areas of public view.
(11) Temporary roads should be designed for proper drainage and built to minimize soil erosion. Upon abandonment, the road area should be restored and stabilized without undue delay.
(f)
Right-of-way maintenance.
(1) Vegetation covers established on a right-of-way should be properly maintained.
(2) Access and service roads should be maintained with proper cover, water bars, and the proper slope to minimize soil erosion. They should be jointly used with other utilities and land-management agencies where practical.
(3) Chemical control of vegetation should not be used unless authorized by the landowner or land-managing agency. When chemicals are used for control of vegetation, they should be approved by EPA for such use and used in conformance with all applicable regulations.
(g)
Construction of aboveground facilities.
(1) Unobtrusive sites should be selected for the location of aboveground facilities.
(2) Aboveground facilities should cover the minimum area practicable.
(3) Noise potential should be considered in locating compressor stations, or other aboveground facilities.
(4) The exterior of aboveground facilities should be harmonious with the surroundings and other buildings in the area.
(5) For Natural Gas Act projects, the site of aboveground facilities which are visible from nearby residences or public areas, should be planted in trees and shrubs, or other appropriate landscaping and should be installed to enhance the appearance of the facilities, consistent with operating needs.
[Order 603, 64 FR 26619, May 14, 1999, as amended by Order 689, 71 FR 69741, Dec. 1, 2006; Order 756, 77 FR 4895, Feb. 1, 2012; Order 790, 78 FR 72812, Dec. 4, 2013; Order 790-A, 79 FR 70068, Nov. 25, 2014; Order 821, 81 FR 5380, Feb. 2, 2016]
§ 380.16
Environmental reports for section 216 Federal Power Act Permits.
(a)
Introduction.
(1) The applicant must submit an environmental report with any application that proposes the construction or modification of any facility identified in § 380.3(c)(3). The environmental report must include the 14 resource reports and related material described in this section.
(2) The detail of each resource report must be commensurate with the complexity of the proposal and its potential for environmental impact. Each topic in each resource report must be addressed or its omission justified, unless the data is not required for that
type of proposal. If material required for one resource report is provided in another resource report or in another exhibit, it may be cross referenced. If any resource report topic is required for a particular project but is not provided at the time the application is filed, the environmental report must explain why it is missing and when the applicant anticipates it will be filed.
(b)
General requirements.
As appropriate, each resource report must:
(1) Address conditions or resources that are likely to be directly or indirectly affected by the project;
(2) Identify significant environmental effects expected to occur as a result of the project;
(3) Identify the effects of construction, operation (including malfunctions), and maintenance, as well as cumulative effects resulting from the incremental effects of the project when added to the effects of other past, present, and reasonably foreseeable actions;
(4) Identify measures proposed to enhance the environment or to avoid, mitigate, or compensate for adverse effects of the project; and
(5) Provide a list of publications, reports, and other literature or communications, including agency contacts, that were cited or relied upon to prepare each report. This list must include the names and titles of the persons contacted, their affiliations, and telephone numbers.
(6) Whenever this section refers to “mileposts” the applicant may substitute “survey centerline stationing” if so preferred. However, whatever method is chosen must be used consistently throughout the resource reports.
(c)
Resource Report 1—General project description.
This report must describe facilities associated with the project; special construction, operation, and maintenance procedures; construction timetables; future plans for related construction; compliance with regulations and codes; and permits that must be obtained. Resource Report 1 must:
(1) Describe and provide location maps of all project facilities (such as transmission line towers, substations, and any appurtenant facilities) to be constructed, modified, replaced, or removed, and related construction and operational support activities and areas, such as maintenance bases, staging areas, communications towers, power lines, and new access roads (roads to be built or modified). As relevant, the report must describe the length and size of the proposed transmission line conductor cables, the types of appurtenant facilities that would be constructed, and associated land requirements.
(2) Provide the following maps and photos:
(i) Current, original United States Geological Survey (USGS) 7.5-minute series topographic maps, or maps of equivalent detail, covering at least a 0.5-mile-wide corridor centered on the electric transmission facility centerline, with integer mileposts identified, showing the location of rights-of-way, new access roads, other linear construction areas, substations, and construction materials storage areas. Nonlinear construction areas must be shown on maps at a scale of 1:3,600, or larger, keyed graphically and by milepost to the right-of-way maps. The topographic maps must depict the facilities identified under paragraph (l)(5) of this section, including any facilities located outside of the 0.5-mile-wide corridor.
(ii) Original aerial images or photographs or photo-based alignment sheets based on these sources, not more than one year old (unless older ones accurately depict current land use and development) and with a scale of 1:6,000, or larger, showing the proposed transmission line route and location of transmission line towers, substations and appurtenant facilities, covering at least a 0.5-mile-wide corridor, and including mileposts. The aerial images or photographs or photo-based alignment sheets must show all existing transmission facilities located in the area of the proposed facilities and the facilities identified under paragraph (l)(5) of this section, including any facilities located outside of the 0.5-mile-wide corridor. Older images/photographs/alignment sheets must be modified to show any facilities not depicted in the original. Alternative formats (
e.g.,
blue-line prints of acceptable resolution) need prior approval by the environmental
staff of the Commission's Office of Energy Projects.
(iii) In addition to the requirements under § 50.3(b) of this chapter, the applicant must contact the environmental staff of the Office of Energy Projects regarding the need for any additional copies of topographic maps and aerial images/photographs.
(3) Describe and identify, by milepost, proposed general construction and restoration methods, and any special methods to be used in areas of rugged topography, residential areas, active croplands, and sites where explosives are likely to be used. Describe any proposed horizontal directional drilling and pile driving that may be necessary.
(4) Identify the number of construction spreads, average workforce requirements for each construction spread and estimated duration of construction from initial clearing to final restoration. Indicate the days of the week and times of the day that proposed construction activities would occur and describe any proposed nighttime construction activities.
(5) Describe reasonably foreseeable plans for future expansion of facilities, including additional land requirements and the compatibility of those plans with the current proposal.
(6) Describe all authorizations required to complete the proposed action and the status of applications for such authorizations. Identify environmental mitigation requirements specified in any permit or proposed in any permit application to the extent not specified elsewhere in this section.
(7) Provide the names and mailing addresses of all affected landowners identified in § 50.5(c)(4) of this chapter and certify that all affected landowners will be notified as required in § 50.4(c) of this chapter.
(d)
Resource Report 2—Water use and quality.
This report must describe water quality and provide data sufficient to determine the expected impact of the project and the effectiveness of mitigative, enhancement, or protective measures. Resource Report 2 must:
(1) Identify and describe by milepost waterbodies and municipal water supply or watershed areas, specially designated surface water protection areas and sensitive waterbodies, and wetlands that would be crossed. For each waterbody crossing, identify the approximate width, State water quality classifications, any known potential pollutants present in the water or sediments, and any potable water intake sources within three miles downstream.
(2) Provide a description of site-specific construction techniques that will be used at each major waterbody crossing.
(3) Describe typical staging area requirements at waterbody and wetland crossings. Also, identify and describe waterbodies and wetlands where staging areas are likely to be more extensive.
(4) Include National Wetland Inventory (NWI) maps. If NWI maps are not available, provide the appropriate State wetland maps. Identify for each crossing, the milepost, the wetland classification specified by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the length of the crossing. Include two copies of the NWI maps (or the substitutes, if NWI maps are not available) clearly showing the proposed route and mileposts. Describe by milepost, wetland crossings as determined by field delineations using the current Federal methodology.
(5) Identify aquifers within excavation depth in the project area, including the depth of the aquifer, current and projected use, water quality, and known or suspected contamination problems.
(6) Discuss proposed mitigation measures to reduce the potential for adverse impacts to surface water, wetlands, or groundwater quality. Discuss the potential for blasting or contamination/spills to affect water wells, springs, and wetlands, and measures to be taken to detect and remedy such effects. Describe the impact of proposed land clearing and vegetation management practices, including herbicide treatment, in the project area on water resources.
(7) Identify the location of known public and private groundwater supply wells or springs within 150 feet of proposed construction areas. Identify locations of Environmental Protection Agency or State-designated, sole-
source aquifers and wellhead protection areas crossed by the proposed transmission line facilities.
(e)
Resource Report 3—Fish, wildlife, and vegetation.
This report must describe aquatic life, wildlife, and vegetation in the vicinity of the proposed project; expected impacts on these resources including potential effects on biodiversity; and proposed mitigation, enhancement, or protection measures. Resource Report 3 must:
(1) Describe commercial and recreational warmwater, coldwater, and saltwater fisheries in the affected area and associated significant habitats such as spawning or rearing areas and estuaries.
(2) Describe terrestrial habitats, including wetlands, typical wildlife habitats and corridors, and rare, unique, or otherwise significant habitats that might be affected by the proposed action. Describe typical species that have commercial, recreational, or aesthetic value.
(3) Describe and provide the acreage of vegetation cover types that would be affected, including unique ecosystems or communities, such as remnant prairie, interior forest, or old-growth forest, or significant individual plants, such as old-growth specimen trees. Describe any areas of noxious weeds and non-native species in the project area.
(4) Describe the impact of construction, operation, and maintenance on aquatic and terrestrial species and their habitats, including the possibility of a major alteration to ecosystems or biodiversity, and any potential impact on State-listed endangered or threatened species. Describe the impact of proposed land clearing and vegetation management practices, including herbicide treatment, in the project area on fish; wildlife, including migratory birds and bald and golden eagles; and vegetation. Surveys may be required to determine specific areas of significant habitats or communities of species of special concern to State, Tribal, or local agencies.
(5) Identify all federally listed or proposed threatened or endangered species and critical habitat that potentially occur in the vicinity of the project. Discuss the results of the consultation requirements listed in § 380.13(b) through § 380.13(b)(5)(i) and include any written correspondence that resulted from the consultation. The application must include the results of any required surveys unless seasonal considerations make this impractical. If species surveys are impractical, there must be field surveys to determine the presence of suitable habitat unless the entire project area is suitable habitat.
(6) Identify all federally listed essential fish habitat (EFH) that potentially occurs in the vicinity of the project. Provide information on all EFH, as identified by the pertinent Federal fishery management plans, that may be adversely affected by the project and the results of abbreviated consultations with the National Marine Fisheries Service, and any resulting EFH assessments.
(7) Identify migratory bird species and bald and golden eagles that potentially occur in the vicinity of the project, including bald and golden eagle nesting and roosting sites, migratory bird flyways, and any habitat/sites important to migratory bird breeding, feeding, and sheltering.
(8) Describe proposed, site-specific mitigation measures to minimize impacts on fisheries; wildlife, including migratory birds and bald and golden eagles; and vegetation.
(9) Include copies of correspondence not provided under paragraph (e)(5) of this section, containing recommendations from appropriate Federal and State fish and wildlife agencies to avoid or limit impacts on wildlife, including migratory birds and bald and golden eagles; fisheries; and vegetation, and the applicant's response to the recommendations.
(f)
Resource Report 4—Cultural resources.
In order to prepare this report, the applicant must follow the principles in § 380.14.
(1) Resource Report 4 must contain:
(i) Documentation of the applicant's initial cultural resource consultations, including engagement with Indian Tribes and other interested persons (if appropriate);
(ii) Overview and Survey Reports, as appropriate;
(iii) An Evaluation Report, as appropriate;
(iv) A Treatment Plan, as appropriate; and
(v) Written comments from State Historic Preservation Officer(s) (SHPO), Tribal Historic Preservation Officers (THPO), as appropriate, and applicable land-management agencies on the reports in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(2) The application or pre-filing documents, as applicable, must include the documentation of initial cultural resource consultation(s), the Overview and Survey Reports, if required, and written comments from SHPOs, THPOs, and land-management agencies, if available. The initial cultural resource consultations should establish the need for surveys. If surveys are deemed necessary by the consultation with the SHPO/THPO, the survey reports must be filed with the application or pre-filing documents.
(i) If the comments of the SHPOs, THPOs, or land-management agencies are not available at the time the application is filed, they may be filed separately, but they must be filed before a permit is issued.
(ii) If landowners deny access to private property and certain areas are not surveyed, the unsurveyed area must be identified by mileposts, and supplemental surveys or evaluations must be conducted after access is granted. In those circumstances, reports, and treatment plans, if necessary, for those inaccessible lands may be filed after a permit is issued.
(3) The Evaluation Report and Treatment Plan, if required, for the entire project must be filed before a permit is issued.
(i) In preparing the Treatment Plan, the applicant must consult with the Commission staff, the SHPO, and any applicable THPO and land-management agencies.
(ii) Authorization to implement the Treatment Plan will occur only after the permit is issued.
(4)The applicant must request privileged treatment for all material filed with the Commission containing location, character, and ownership information about cultural resources in accordance with § 388.112 of this chapter. The cover and relevant pages or portions of the report should be clearly labeled in bold lettering: “CONTAINS PRIVILEGED INFORMATION—DO NOT RELEASE.”
(5) Except as specified in a final Commission order, or by the Director of the Office of Energy Projects, construction may not begin until all cultural resource reports and plans have been approved.
(g)
Resource Report 5—Socioeconomics.
This report must identify and quantify the impacts of project construction, operation, and maintenance on factors affecting municipalities and counties in the vicinity of the project. Resource Report 5 must:
(1) Describe the socioeconomic impact area.
(2) Evaluate the impact of any substantial migration of people on governmental facilities and services and plans to reduce the impact on the local infrastructure.
(3) Describe on-site manpower requirements and payroll during construction, operation, and maintenance, including the number of construction personnel who currently reside within the impact area, will commute daily to the site from outside the impact area, or will relocate temporarily within the impact area.
(4) Determine whether existing housing within the impact area is sufficient to meet the needs of the additional population.
(5) Describe the number and types of residences and businesses that will be displaced by the project, procedures to be used to acquire these properties, and types and amounts of relocation assistance payments.
(6) Conduct a fiscal impact analysis evaluating incremental local government expenditures in relation to incremental local government revenues that will result from the project. Incremental expenditures include, but are not limited to, school operation, road maintenance and repair, public safety, and public utilities.
(h)
Resource Report 6
—
Tribal resources.
This report must describe Indian Tribes, Tribal lands, and Tribal interests that may be affected by the proposed project. Resource Report 6 must:
(1) Identify Indian Tribes that may be affected by the construction, operation, and maintenance of the proposed transmission facilities.
(2) Describe the impacts of construction, operation, and maintenance of the project on Indian Tribes and Tribal interests, including those related to: water use and quality; wildlife and vegetation; cultural and historic resources; socioeconomics; geological resources; soils; land use, recreation, and aesthetics; air quality and environmental noise; traffic; and health.
(3) Identify project impacts that may affect Tribal interests not necessarily associated with resources specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section,
e.g.,
treaties, Tribal practices, or agreements between the Indian Tribe and entities other than the applicant.
(4) Identify Indian Tribes that may attach religious and cultural significance to historic properties within the proposed project right-of-way or in the project vicinity, as well as available information on Tribal traditional cultural and religious properties, whether on or off of any Indian reservation.
(5) Ensure that information made available under this section does not include specific site or property locations, the disclosure of which will create a risk of harm, theft, or destruction of archaeological or Tribal cultural resources or to the site at which the resources are located, or which would violate any Federal law, including the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979, 16 U.S.C. 470hh, and the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 54 U.S.C. 307103.
(6) Describe any proposed mitigation measures to avoid or minimize impacts on Tribal resources, including any input received from Indian Tribes on the proposed measures and how the input informed the proposed measures.
(i)
Resource Report 7—Environmental justice.
This report must address the effects of the proposed project on environmental justice communities, as defined in § 380.2 of this chapter. Resource Report 7 must:
(1) Identify environmental justice communities within the area of potential project impacts using current guidance and data, including localized data, from the Environmental Protection Agency, the Council, the Census Bureau, and other authoritative sources. Provide maps depicting identified environmental justice communities in relation to the proposed project facilities using localized data.
(2) Describe the impacts of construction, operation, and maintenance of the project on environmental justice communities, including those related to: water use and quality; wildlife and vegetation; cultural and historic resources; socioeconomics; geological resources; soils; land use, recreation, and aesthetics; air quality and environmental noise; traffic; and health. Identify any disproportionate and adverse impacts on environmental justice communities.
(3) Discuss any cumulative impacts on environmental justice communities, regarding resources affected by the project, including whether any cumulative impacts would be disproportionate and adverse. Describe the proposed project's impacts in relation to the aggregation of past, present, and reasonably foreseeable actions taken by Federal or non-Federal entities, and the environmental justice communities' capacity to tolerate additional impacts.
(4) Describe any proposed mitigation measures to avoid or minimize impacts on environmental justice communities, including any community input received on the proposed measures and how the input informed the proposed measures.
(j)
Resource Report 8—Geological resources.
This report must describe geological resources and hazards in the project area that might be directly or indirectly affected by the proposed action or that could place the proposed facilities at risk, the potential effects of those hazards on the facility, and methods proposed to reduce the effects or risks. Resource Report 8 must:
(1) Describe, by milepost, mineral resources that are currently or potentially exploitable.
(2) Describe, by milepost, existing and potential geological hazards and areas of nonroutine geotechnical concern, such as high seismicity areas, active faults, and areas susceptible to soil liquefaction; planned, active, and abandoned mines; karst terrain; and
areas of potential ground failure, such as subsidence, slumping, and landsliding. Discuss the hazards posed to the facility from each one.
(3) Describe how the project will be located or designed to avoid or minimize adverse effects to geological resources or risk to itself. Describe any geotechnical investigations and monitoring that would be conducted before, during, and after construction. Discuss the potential for blasting to affect structures and the proposed measures to be taken to remedy such effects.
(4) Specify methods to be used to prevent project-induced contamination from surface mines or from mine tailings along the right-of-way and whether the project would hinder mine reclamation or expansion efforts.
(k)
Resource Report 9—Soils.
This report must describe the soils that will be affected by the proposed project, the effect on those soils, and measures proposed to minimize or avoid impacts. Resource Report 9 must:
(1) List, by milepost, the soil associations that would be crossed and describe the erosion potential, fertility, and drainage characteristics of each association.
(2) Identify, by milepost, potential impacts from: soil erosion due to water, wind, or loss of vegetation; soil compaction and damage to soil structure resulting from movement of construction vehicles; wet soils and soils with poor drainage that are especially prone to structural damage; damage to drainage tile systems due to movement of construction vehicles and excavating activities; and interference with the operation of agricultural equipment due to the possibility of large stones or blasted rock occurring on or near the surface as a result of construction.
(3) Identify, by milepost, cropland and residential areas where project construction may result in the loss of soil fertility, including any land classified as prime or unique farmland by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service.
(4) Describe any proposed mitigation measures to reduce the potential for adverse impacts to soils or agricultural productivity.
(l)
Resource Report 10—Land use, recreation, and aesthetics.
This report must describe the existing uses of land in the project vicinity and changes to those land uses that will occur if the project is approved. The report must discuss proposed mitigation measures, including the protection and enhancement of existing land use. Resource Report 10 must:
(1) Describe the width and acreage requirements of all construction and permanent rights-of-way for project construction, operation and maintenance.
(i) List, by milepost, locations where the proposed construction or permanent rights-of-way would be adjacent to existing rights-of-way of any kind.
(ii) Identify, preferably by diagrams, existing rights-of-way that will be used for a portion of the construction or permanent rights-of-way, the overlap and how much additional width will be required.
(iii) Identify the total amount of land to be purchased or leased for each project facility; the amount of land that would be disturbed for construction, operation, and maintenance of the facility; and the proposed use of the remaining land not required for project operation and maintenance, if any.
(iv) Identify the size of typical staging areas and expanded work areas, such as those at railroad, road, and waterbody crossings, and the size and location of all construction materials storage yards and access roads.
(2) Identify, by milepost, the existing use of lands crossed by, or adjacent to, the proposed project facilities or rights-of-way.
(3) Describe planned development on land crossed by, or within 0.25 mile of, the proposed facilities, the time frame (if available) for such development, and proposed coordination to minimize impacts on land use. Planned development means development that is included in a master plan or is on file with the local planning board or the county.
(4) Identify, by milepost and length of crossing, the area of direct effect of each proposed facility and operational site on sugar maple stands; orchards and nurseries; landfills; operating mines; hazardous waste sites; State
wild and scenic rivers; State or local designated trails; nature preserves; game management areas; remnant prairie; old-growth forest; interior forest; national or State forests or parks; golf courses; designated natural, recreational or scenic areas; registered natural landmarks; Native American religious sites and traditional cultural properties (to the extent they are known to the public at large) and reservations; lands identified under the Special Area Management Plan of the Office of Coastal Zone Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and lands owned or controlled by Federal or State agencies or private preservation groups. Also identify if any of those areas are located within 0.25 mile of any proposed facility.
(5) Identify and describe buildings, electronic installations, airstrips, airports, and heliports in the project vicinity. The facilities identified under this paragraph must be depicted on the maps and photographs in Resource Report 1, as required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(i)
Buildings.
List all single-family and multi-family dwellings and related structures, mobile homes, apartment buildings, commercial structures, industrial structures, business structures, churches, hospitals, nursing homes, schools, or other structures normally inhabited by humans or intended to be inhabited by humans on a daily or regular basis within a 0.5-mile-wide corridor centered on the proposed transmission line alignment. Provide a general description of each habitable structure and its distance from the centerline of the proposed project. In cities, towns, or rural subdivisions, houses can be identified in groups. Provide the number of habitable structures in each group and list the distance from the centerline to the closest habitable structure in the group. Provide a list of all habitable structures within 200 feet of a proposed construction work area for all proposed project facilities, including transmission line towers, substations, access roads, and appurtenant facilities; a general description of each habitable structure; and the distance of each habitable structure from the proposed construction work area.
(ii)
Electronic installations.
List all commercial AM radio transmitters located within 10,000 feet of the centerline of the proposed project and all FM radio transmitters, microwave relay stations, or other similar electronic installations located within 2,000 feet of the centerline of the proposed project. Provide a general description of each installation and its distance from the centerline of the proposed project.
(iii)
Airstrips, airports, and heliports.
List all known private airstrips within 10,000 feet of the centerline of the project. List all airports registered with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), with at least one runway more than 3,200 feet in length, that are located within 20,000 feet of the centerline of the proposed project. Indicate whether any transmission structures will exceed a 100:1 horizontal slope (one foot in height for each 100 feet in distance) from the closest point of the closest runway. List all airports registered with the FAA having no runway more than 3,200 feet in length that are located within 10,000 feet of the centerline of the proposed project. Indicate whether any transmission structures will exceed a 50:1 horizontal slope from the closest point of the closest runway. List all heliports located within 5,000 feet of the centerline of the proposed project. Indicate whether any transmission structures will exceed a 25:1 horizontal slope from the closest point of the closest landing and takeoff area of the heliport. Provide a general description of each private airstrip, registered airport, and registered heliport, and state the distance of each from the centerline of the proposed transmission line. Include copies of any consultation with the FAA.
(6) Describe any areas crossed by, or within 0.25 mile of, the proposed transmission project facilities that are included in, or are designated for study for inclusion in: the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System (16 U.S.C. 1271), the National Trails System (16 U.S.C. 1241), or a wilderness area designated under the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1132).
(7) For facilities within a designated coastal zone management area, provide
a consistency determination or evidence that the applicant has requested a consistency determination from the State's coastal zone management program.
(8) Describe the impact the project will have on present uses of the affected areas as identified above, including commercial uses, mineral resources, recreational areas, public health and safety, and the aesthetic value of the land and its features. Describe any temporary or permanent restrictions on land use resulting from the project.
(9) Describe proposed mitigation measures intended for all special use areas identified under this section.
(10) Identify the area of potential visual effects from the proposed project. Describe the visual characteristics of the lands and waters affected by the project, including any visually sensitive areas, visual classifications, and key viewpoints in the project vicinity. Describe how the transmission line project facilities will impact the visual character and scenic quality of the landscape and proposed mitigation measures to lessen these impacts. Provide visual aids to support the textual descriptions required by this paragraph. Identify, and justify the selection of, the tools or methodologies used to develop the information required in this paragraph.
(11) Demonstrate that applications for rights-of-way authorizations or other proposed land uses have been, or soon will be, filed with Federal land-management agencies with jurisdiction over land that would be affected by the project.
(m)
Resource Report 11—Air quality and environmental noise.
This report must estimate emissions from the proposed project and the corresponding impacts on air quality and the environment, estimate the impact of the proposed project on the noise environment, and describe proposed measures to mitigate the impacts. Resource Report 11 must:
(1) Describe the existing air quality in the project area, indicate if any project facilities are located within a designated nonattainment or maintenance area under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.
), and provide the distance from the project facilities to any Class I area in the project vicinity.
(2) For proposed substations and appurtenant facilities, quantitatively describe existing noise levels at nearby noise-sensitive areas, such as schools, hospitals, or residences.
(i) Report existing noise levels as the Leq (day), Leq (night), and Ldn (day-night) and include the basis for the data or estimates.
(ii) Include a plot plan that identifies the locations and duration of noise measurements, time of day, weather conditions, wind speed and direction, engine load, and other noise sources present during each measurement.
(iii) Identify any State or local noise regulations that may be applicable to the project facilities.
(3) Estimate emissions from the proposed project and the corresponding impacts on air quality and the environment.
(i) Estimate the reasonably foreseeable emissions from construction, operation, and maintenance of the project facilities (such as emissions from tailpipes, equipment, fugitive dust, open burning, and substations) expressed in tons per year. Include supporting calculations, emissions factors, fuel consumption rates, and annual hours of operation.
(ii) For each designated nonattainment or maintenance area, provide a comparison of the emissions from construction, operation, and maintenance of the project facilities with the applicable General Conformity thresholds (40 CFR part 93).
(iii) Identify the corresponding impacts on communities and the environment in the project area from the estimated emissions.
(iv) Describe any proposed mitigation measures to control emissions identified under this section.
(4) Estimate the impact of the proposed project on the noise environment.
(i) Provide a quantitative estimate of the impact of transmission line operation on noise levels at the edge of the proposed right-of-way, including corona, insulator, and Aeolian noise. For proposed substations and appurtenant facilities, provide a quantitative estimate of the impact of operations on
noise levels at nearby noise-sensitive areas, including discrete tones.
(A) Include step-by-step supporting calculations or identify the computer program used to model the noise levels, input and raw output data and all assumptions made when running the model, far-field sound level data for maximum facility operation, and source of the data.
(B) Include sound pressure levels for project facilities, dynamic insertion loss for structures, and sound attenuation from the project facilities to the edge of the right-of-way or to nearby noise-sensitive areas (as applicable).
(C) Far-field sound level data measured from similar project facilities in service elsewhere, when available, may be substituted for manufacturer's far-field sound level data.
(D) The operational noise estimates must demonstrate that noise attributable to any proposed substation or appurtenant facility does not exceed a day-night sound level (Ldn) of 55 decibels on the A-weighted scale (dBA) at any pre-existing noise-sensitive area. Compare the proposed project's operational noise estimates with applicable State and local noise regulations.
(ii) Describe the impact of proposed construction activities, including any nighttime construction, on the noise environment. Estimate the impact of any horizontal directional drilling, pile driving, or blasting on noise levels at nearby noise-sensitive areas and include supporting assumptions and calculations.
(iii) Describe any proposed mitigation measures to reduce noise impacts identified under this section.
(n)
Resource Report 12—Alternatives.
This report must describe alternatives to the project and compare the environmental impacts (as identified in Resource Reports 1 through 11 of this section) of such alternatives to those of the proposal. The potential for each alternative to meet project purposes and the environmental consequences of each alternative must be discussed. Resource Report 12 must:
(1) Discuss the “no action” alternative and other alternatives given serious consideration to achieve the proposed objectives.
(2) Provide an analysis of the relative environmental benefits and impacts of each such alternative, including but not limited to:
(i) For alternatives considered in the initial screening for the project but eliminated, describe the environmental characteristics of each alternative, and the reasons for rejecting it. Where applicable, identify the location of such alternatives on maps of sufficient scale to depict their relationship to the proposed action and existing rights-of-way; and
(ii) For alternatives that were given more in-depth consideration, describe the environmental characteristics of each alternative and the reasons for rejecting it. Provide comparative tables showing the differences in environmental characteristics for the alternatives and proposed action. The location, where applicable, of any alternatives in this paragraph shall be provided on maps equivalent to those required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(o)
Resource Report 13—Reliability and safety.
This report must address the potential hazards to the public from failure of facility components resulting from, among other things, accidents or natural catastrophes; how these events would affect reliability; and proposed procedures and design features to reduce potential hazards. Resource Report 13 must:
(1) Discuss hazards, environmental impacts, and service interruptions that could reasonably ensue from failure of the proposed facilities.
(2) Describe proposed measures to protect the public from failure of the proposed facilities (including coordination with local agencies).
(3) Discuss proposed design and operational measures to avoid or reduce risk, including any measures to ensure that the proposed project facilities would be resilient against future climate change impacts in the project area.
(4) Discuss proposed contingency plans for maintaining service or reducing downtime to ensure that the proposed facilities would not adversely affect the bulk electric system in accordance with applicable North American
Electric Reliability Corporation reliability standards.
(5) Describe proposed measures to exclude the public from hazardous areas. Discuss measures used to minimize problems arising from malfunctions and accidents (with estimates of probability of occurrence) and identify standard procedures for protecting services and public safety during maintenance and breakdowns.
(6) Provide a description of the electromagnetic fields to be generated by the proposed transmission lines, including their strength and extent. Provide a depiction of the expected field compared to distance horizontally along the right-of-way under the conductors, and perpendicular to the centerline of the right-of-way laterally.
(7) Discuss the potential for electrical noise from electric and magnetic fields, including shadowing and reradiation, as they may affect health or communication systems along the transmission right-of-way.
(8) Discuss the potential for induced or conducted currents along the transmission right-of-way from electric and magnetic fields.
(p)
Resource Report 14—Design and engineering.
This report consists of general design and engineering drawings of the principal project facilities described under Resource Report 1—General project description. If the version of this report submitted with the application is preliminary in nature, the applicant must state that in the application. The drawings must conform to the specifications determined in the initial consultation meeting required by § 50.5(b) of this chapter.
(1) The drawings must show all major project structures in sufficient detail to provide a full understanding of the project including:
(i) Plans (overhead view);
(ii) Elevations (front view);
(iii) Profiles (side view); and
(iv) Sections.
(2) The applicant may submit preliminary design drawings with the pre-filing documents or application. The final design drawings may be submitted during the construction permit process or after the Commission issues a permit and must show the precise plans and specifications for proposed structures. If a permit is granted on the basis of preliminary designs, the applicant must submit final design drawings for written approval by the Director of the Office of Energy Projects prior to commencement of any construction of the project.
(3)
Supporting design report.
The applicant must submit, at a minimum, the following supporting information to demonstrate that existing and proposed structures are safe and adequate to fulfill their stated functions and must submit such information in a separate report at the time the application is filed:
(i) An assessment of the suitability of the locations of proposed transmission line towers, substations, and appurtenant structures based on geological and subsurface investigations, including investigations of soils and rock borings and tests evaluating all foundations and construction materials;
(ii) Copies of boring logs, geology reports, and laboratory test reports;
(iii) An identification of all borrow areas and quarry sites and an estimate of required quantities of suitable construction material; and
(iv) Stability and stress analyses for all major transmission structures and conductors under all probable loading conditions, including seismic, wind, and ice loading, as appropriate, in sufficient detail to permit independent staff evaluation.
(4) The applicant must submit the supporting design report described in paragraph (p)(3) of this section at the time preliminary and final design drawings are filed. If the report contains preliminary drawings, it must be designated as a “Preliminary Supporting Design Report.”
[Order 689, 71 FR 69471, Dec. 1, 2006, as amended by Order 1977, 89 FR 46734, May 29, 2024]
Pt. 380, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 380—Minimum Filing Requirements for Environmental Reports Under the Natural Gas Act

# Environmental Reports Under the Natural Gas Act.

# Resource Report 1—General Project Description
1. Provide a detailed description and location map of the project facilities. (§ 380.12(c)(1)).
2. Describe any nonjurisdictional facilities that would be built in association with the project. (§ 380.12(c)(2)).
3. Provide current original U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) 7.5-minute-series topographic maps with mileposts showing the project facilities; (§ 380.12(c)(3)).
4. Provide aerial images or photographs or alignment sheets based on these sources with mileposts showing the project facilities; (§ 380.12(c)(3)).
5. Provide plot/site plans of compressor stations showing the location of the nearest noise-sensitive areas (NSA) within 1 mile. (§ 380.12(c)(3,4)).
6. Describe construction and restoration methods. (§ 380.12(c)(6)).
7. Identify the permits required for construction across surface waters. (§ 380.12(c)(9)).
8. Provide the names and address of all affected landowners and certify that all affected landowners will be notified as required in § 157.6(d). (§§ 380.12(c)(10))

# Resource Report 2—Water Use and Quality
1. Identify all perennial surface waterbodies crossed by the proposed project and their water quality classification. (§ 380.12(d)(1)).
2. Identify all waterbody crossings that may have contaminated waters or sediments. (§ 380.12(d)(1)).
3. Identify watershed areas, designated surface water protection areas, and sensitive waterbodies crossed by the proposed project. (§ 380.12(d)(1)).
4. Provide a table (based on NWI maps if delineations have not been done) identifying all wetlands, by milepost and length, crossed by the project (including abandoned pipeline), and the total acreage and acreage of each wetland type that would be affected by construction. (§ 380.12(d)(1
4)).
5. Discuss construction and restoration methods proposed for crossing wetlands, and compare them to staff's Wetland and Waterbody Construction and Mitigation Procedures; (§ 380.12(d)(2)).
6. Describe the proposed waterbody construction, impact mitigation, and restoration methods to be used to cross surface waters and compare to the staff's Wetland and Waterbody Construction and Mitigation Procedures. (§ 380.12(d)(2)).
7. Provide original National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) maps or the appropriate state wetland maps, if NWI maps are not available, that show all proposed facilities and include milepost locations for proposed pipeline routes. (§ 380.12(d)(4)).
8. Identify all U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)- or state- designated aquifers crossed. (§ 380.12(d)(9)).

# Resource Report 3—Vegetation and Wildlife
1. Classify the fishery type of each surface waterbody that would be crossed, including fisheries of special concern. (§ 380.12(e)(1)).
2. Describe terrestrial and wetland wildlife and habitats that would be affected by the project. (§ 380.12(e)(2)).
3. Describe the major vegetative cover types that would be crossed and provide the acreage of each vegetative cover type that would be affected by construction. (§ 380.12(e)(3)).
4. Describe the effects of construction and operation procedures on the fishery resources and proposed mitigation measures. (§ 380.12(e)(4)).
5. Evaluate the potential for short-term, long-term, and permanent impact on the wildlife resources and state-listed endangered or threatened species caused by construction and operation of the project and proposed mitigation measures. (§ 380.12(e)(4)).
6. Identify all federally listed or proposed endangered or threatened species that potentially occur in the vicinity of the project and discuss the results of the consultations with other agencies. Include survey reports as specified in § 380.12(e)(5).
7. Identify all federally listed essential fish habitat (EFH) that potentially occurs in the vicinity of the project and the results of abbreviated consultations with NMFS, and any resulting EFH assessments. (§ 380.12(e)(6))
8. Describe any significant biological resources that would be affected. Describe impact and any mitigation proposed to avoid or minimize that impact. (§§ 380.12(e)(4
7))

# Resource Report 4—Cultural Resources
See § 380.14 and “OPR's Guidelines for Reporting on Cultural Resources Investigations” for further guidance.
1. Initial cultural resources consultation and documentation, and documentation of consultation with Native Americans. (§ 380.12(f)(1)(i)
(2)).
2. Overview/Survey Report(s). (§ 380.12(f)(1)(ii)
(2)).

# Resource Report 5—Socioeconomics
1. For major aboveground facilities and major pipeline projects that require an EIS, describe existing socioeconomic conditions within the project area. (§ 380.12(g)(1)).
2. For major aboveground facilities, quantify impact on employment, housing, local government services, local tax revenues, transportation, and other relevant factors within the project area. (§ 380.12(g)(2-6)).

# Resource Report 6—Geological Resources
1. Identify the location (by milepost) of mineral resources and any planned or active surface mines crossed by the proposed facilities. (§ 380.12(h)(1
2)).
2. Identify any geologic hazards to the proposed facilities. (§ 380.12(h)(2))
3. Discuss the need for and locations where blasting may be necessary in order to construct the proposed facilities. (§ 380.12(h)(3))
4. For underground storage facilities, how drilling activity by others within or adjacent to the facilities would be monitored, and how old wells would be located and monitored within the facility boundaries. (§ 380.12(h)(5))

# Resource Report 7—Soils
1. Identify, describe, and group by milepost the soils affected by the proposed pipeline and aboveground facilities. (§ 380.12(i)(1))
2. For aboveground facilities that would occupy sites over 5 acres, determine the acreage of prime farmland soils that would be affected by construction and operation. (§ 380.12(i)(2))
3. Describe, by milepost, potential impacts on soils. (§ 380.12(i)(3,4))
4. Identify proposed mitigation to minimize impact on soils, and compare with the staff's Upland Erosion Control, Revegetation, and Maintenance Plan. (§ 380.12(i)(5))

# Resource Report 8—Land Use, Recreation and Aesthetics
1. Classify and quantify land use affected by: (§ 380.12(j)(1))
a. Pipeline construction and permanent rights-of-way (§ 380.12(j)(1));
b. Extra work/staging areas (§ 380.12(j)(1));
c. Access roads (§ 380.12(j)(1));
d. Pipe and contractor yards (§ 380.12(j)(1)); and
e. Aboveground facilities (§ 380.12(j)(1)).
2. Identify by milepost all locations where the pipeline right-of-way would at least partially coincide with existing right-of-way, where it would be adjacent to existing rights-of-way, and where it would be outside of existing right-of-way. (§ 380.12(j)(1))
3. Provide detailed typical construction right-of-way cross-section diagrams showing information such as widths and relative locations of existing rights-of-way, new permanent right-of-way, and temporary construction right-of-way. (§ 380.12(j)(1))
4. Summarize the total acreage of land affected by construction and operation of the project. (§ 380.12(j)(1))
5. Identify by milepost all planned residential or commercial/business development and the time frame for construction. (§ 380.12(j)(3))
6. Identify by milepost special land uses (e.g., sugar maple stands, specialty crops, natural areas, national and state forests, conservation land, etc.). (§ 380.12(j)(4))
7. Identify by beginning milepost and length of crossing all land administered by Federal, state, or local agencies, or private conservation organizations. (§ 380.12(j)(4))
8. Identify by milepost all natural, recreational, or scenic areas, and all registered natural landmarks crossed by the project. (§ 380.12(j)(4
6))
9. Identify all facilities that would be within designated coastal zone management areas. Provide a consistency determination or evidence that a request for a consistency determination has been filed with the appropriate state agency. ((§ 380.12(j)(4
7))
10. Identify by milepost all residences that would be within 50 feet of the construction right-of-way or extra work area. (§ 380.12(j)(5))
11. Identify all designated or proposed candidate National or State Wild and Scenic Rivers crossed by the project. (§ 380.12(j)(6))
12. Describe any measures to visually screen aboveground facilities, such as compressor stations. (§ 380.12(j)(11))
13. Demonstrate that applications for rights-of-way or other proposed land use have been or soon will be filed with Federal land-managing agencies with jurisdiction over land that would be affected by the project. (§ 380.12(j)(12))

# Resource Report 9—Air and Noise Quality
1. Describe existing air quality in the vicinity of the project. (§ 380.12(k)(1))
2. Quantify the existing noise levels (day-night sound level (L
dn
) and other applicable noise parameters) at noise-sensitive areas and at other areas covered by relevant state and local noise ordinances. (§ 380.12(k)(2))
3. Quantify existing and proposed emissions of compressor equipment, plus construction emissions, including nitrogen oxides (NO
X
) and carbon monoxide (CO), and the basis for these calculations. Summarize anticipated air quality impacts for the project. (§ 380.12(k)(3))
4. Describe the existing compressor units at each station where new, additional, or modified compressor units are proposed, including the manufacturer, model number, and horsepower of the compressor units. For proposed new, additional, or modified compressor units include the horsepower, type, and energy source. (§ 380.12(k)(4)).
5. Identify any nearby noise-sensitive area by distance and direction from the proposed compressor unit building/enclosure. (§ 380.12(k)(4))
6. Identify any applicable state or local noise regulations. (§ 380.12(k)(4))
7. Calculate the noise impact at noise-sensitive areas of the proposed compressor unit modifications or additions, specifying how the impact was calculated, including manufacturer's data and proposed noise control equipment. (§ 380.12(k)(4))

# Resource Report 10—Alternatives
1. Address the “no action” alternative. (§ 380.12(l)(1))
2. For large projects, address the effect of energy conservation or energy alternatives to the project. (§ 380.12(l)(1))
3. Identify system alternatives considered during the identification of the project and provide the rationale for rejecting each alternative. (§ 380.12(l)(1))
4. Identify major and minor route alternatives considered to avoid impact on sensitive environmental areas (e.g., wetlands, parks, or residences) and provide sufficient comparative data to justify the selection of the proposed route. (§ 380.12(l)(2)(ii))
5. Identify alternative sites considered for the location of major new aboveground facilities and provide sufficient comparative data to justify the selection of the proposed site. (§ 380.12(l)(2)(ii))

# Resource Report 11—Reliability and Safety
Describe how the project facilities would be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained to minimize potential hazard to the public from the failure of project components as a result of accidents or natural catastrophes. (§ 380.12(m))

# Resource Report 12—PCB Contamination
1. For projects involving the replacement or abandonment of facilities determined to have PCBs, provide a statement that activities would comply with an approved EPA disposal permit or with the requirements of the TSCA. (§ 380.12(n)(1))
2. For compressor station modifications on sites that have been determined to have soils contaminated with PCBs, describe the status of remediation efforts completed to date. (§ 380.12(n)(2))

# Resource Report 13—Additional Information Related to LNG Plants
Provide all the listed detailed engineering materials. (§ 380.12(o))
[Order 603, 64 FR 26619, May 14, 1999, as amended by Order 603-A, 64 FR 54537, Oct. 7, 1999; Order 609, 64 FR 57392, Oct. 25, 1999; Order 609-A, 65 FR 15238, Mar. 22, 2000; Order 900, 88 FR 74045, Oct. 30, 2023]
Pt. 381

# PART 381—FEES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
381.101
Purpose.
381.102
Definitions.
381.103
Filings.
381.104
Annual adjustment of fees.
381.105
Method of payment.
381.106
Waivers.
381.107
Direct billing.
381.108
Exemptions.
381.109
Refunds.
381.110
Fees for substantial amendments.

# Subpart B—Fees Applicable to the Natural Gas Act and Related Authorities
381.207
Pipeline certificate applications.

# Subpart C—Fees Applicable to General Activities
381.302
Petition for issuance of a declaratory order (except under Part I of the Federal Power Act).
381.303
Review of a Department of Energy remedial order.
381.304
Review of Department of Energy denial of adjustment.
381.305
Interpretations by the Office of the General Counsel.

# Subpart D—Fees Applicable to the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978
381.401
Review of jurisdictional agency determinations.
381.403
Petitions for rate approval pursuant to § 284.123(b)(2).
381.404
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Fees Applicable to Certain Matters Under Parts II and III of the Federal Power Act and the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act
381.501
Applicability.
381.505
Certification of qualifying status as a small power production facility or cogeneration facility.
Subpart F [Reserved]
Subpart G—Fees Applicable to the Interstate Commerce Act and Related Authorities [Reserved]

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 717-717w; 16 U.S.C. 791-828c, 2601-2645; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 42 U.S.C. 7101-7352; 49 U.S.C. 60502; 49 App. U.S.C. 1-85.

# Source:
Order 360, 49 FR 5081, Feb. 10, 1984, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 381.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to set forth the fees charged by the Commission for services and benefits provided by the Commission.
§ 381.102
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply.
(a)
Person
means any person, group, association, organization, partnership, corporation, or business, except those authorized to engage in the transaction of official business for the United States Government.
(b)
Work year cost
means the ratio of the Commission's budgeted expenses during any given fiscal year to the authorized staff level for that fiscal year.
(c)
Work-month
means the amount of work represented by one employee's devotion of 100 percent of his or her time for one month.
(d)
Filing
means any application, tariff or rate filing, intervention, complaint, petition, request, or motion submitted to the Commission in connection with any of the services or benefits for which a fee is established in this part.
§ 381.103
Filings.
(a)
Submittal of fees.
Except as provided in §§ 274.201(e) and 381.106, a fee in the amount set forth in this part shall accompany each filing for which a fee has been established.
(b)
Deficiencies.
(1) Any filing that is not accompanied by either the fee established for that filing or a petition for waiver in accordance with § 381.106(b) is deficient.
(2) The Secretary will inform any person submitting a deficient filing that:
(i) Such filing will be rejected unless the appropriate fee is submitted within a time specified by the Secretary;
(ii) The Commission will not process any filing that is deficient under this paragraph; and
(iii) The date of filing is the date on which the Commission receives the appropriate fee.
(3) This provision does not preclude a determination that a filing is deficient for any other reason.
(c)
Choice of two or more fees.
If a filing for one service or benefit may be considered as falling within two or more categories or services for which a fee is established, that filing must be accompanied by the higher or highest of the applicable fees.
[Order 360, 49 FR 5081, Feb. 10, 1984, as amended by Order 394, 49 FR 35365, Sept. 7, 1984]
§ 381.104
Annual adjustment of fees.
(a)
Update and publication.
The Commission, by its designee the Executive Director, will update its fees each fiscal year according to the formula in paragraph (c) of this section. The Executive Director will publish the fees in the
Federal Register.
(b)
Payment of updated fees.
Any person who submits a filing for which a fee is established in this part must pay the currently effective fee unless a waiver is granted.
(c)
Formula.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the formula for determining each fee is the work months dedicated to the given fee category for the six fiscal years 1987 through 1992 or all years prior to FY 93 for which data are available divided by the number of actual completions in the six fiscal years 1987 through 1992 or all years prior to FY 93 for which data are available multiplied by the average monthly employee cost in the most recent fiscal year for which data are available.
(2) With respect to the fees charged to pipelines filing pursuant to § 381.207(a), the fee for the first year will be $1,000. The formula for the fee in future years will be the work months from the immediately prior year divided by the number of actual completions in that year multiplied by the average monthly employee cost in the most recent fiscal year for which data are available. With the addition of future years, the formula for § 381.207(a) fees will be updated to include that year as part of the base period.
(d)
Effective date of fee.
Any fee updated under this section is effective on the thirtieth day after publication in the
Federal Register
of the revised sections in this part, unless otherwise
specified in the
Federal Register
notice.
[Order 360, 49 FR 5081, Feb. 10, 1984, as amended by Order 494, 53 FR 15382, Apr. 29, 1988; Order 521, 55 FR 12171, Apr. 2, 1990; 58 FR 2975, Jan. 7, 1993]
§ 381.105
Method of payment.
Fee payment shall be made by check or money order payable to the Treasurer of the United States. The check should state the nature of the filing and the docket number where applicable so that the fee category for which the check is being submitted is clearly identifiable.
§ 381.106
Waivers.
(a)
Filing of petition.
If an applicant is suffering from severe economic hardship at the time of filing an application which makes the applicant economically unable to pay the appropriate fee for the application, rate change, tariff, petition, request or other filing requiring a fee, the applicant may submit an original and two copies of a petition for waiver with the application in lieu of the applicable fee. The petition for waiver must include evidence, such as a financial statement, clearly showing either that the applicant does not have the money to pay all or part of the fee, or that if the applicant does pay the fee, the applicant will be placed in financial distress or emergency.
(b)
Decision on petition.
The Commission or its designee will analyze each petition to determine whether the applicant has met the standards for waiver and then will notify the applicant of its grant or denial, in whole or in part. If the petition is denied, the applicant will have 30 days from the date of notification of the denial to submit the appropriate fee to the Commission.
[Order 360, 49 FR 5081, Feb. 10, 1984, as amended by Order 395, 49 FR 35356, Sept. 7, 1984]
§ 381.107
Direct billing.
(a)
Applicability.
If a filing presents an issue of fact, law, policy, procedural difficulty, or technical complexity that requires an extraordinary amount of expense to process, the Commission may institute a direct billing procedure for the direct and indirect costs of processing that filing. The Commission will make a direct billing determination under this paragraph not later than one year after receiving a complete filing from an applicant.
(b)
Procedures.
(1) Direct billing will not be instituted with respect to any filing until the person who submitted the filing is notified that direct billing will be applied to the filing in lieu of the fees established under this part.
(2) Any fee submitted with the filing will be applied, as a credit, to the amount billed directly for processing costs. The Secretary will thereafter periodically bill the person who submitted the filing for the actual direct and indirect costs of processing the filing.
(3) If the Commission institutes a direct billing for the costs of a hearing and reduces the fee to the applicant to less than full cost recovery due to the presence of intervenors, the Commission will consider, on a case-by-case basis, direct billing the intervenors for all or part of the reduced portion.
[Order 360, 49 FR 5081, Feb. 10, 1984, as amended by Order 433, 50 FR 40346, Oct. 3, 1985; 58 FR 2975, Jan. 7, 1993]
§ 381.108
Exemptions.
(a)
Filing of petition.
States, municipalities and anyone who is engaged in the official business of the Federal Government are exempt from the fees required by this part and may file a petition for exemption in lieu of the applicable fee.
(b)
Decision on petition.
A petitioner may claim this exemption by filing an original and two copies of a petition for exemption that includes evidence that the petitioner is a State or municipality, or is engaged in the official business of the Federal Government. The Commission or its designee will analyze each petition to determine whether the petition has met the standards for exemption and will notify the petitioner whether it is granted or denied. If the petition is denied, the person will have thirty days from the date of notification of the denial to submit the appropriate fee to the Commission.
[Order 395, 49 FR 35356, Sept. 7, 1984]
§ 381.109
Refunds.
Fees established under this part may be refunded only if the related filing is withdrawn within fifteen (15) days of the date of filing or, if applicable, before the filing is noticed in the
Federal Register
or, if the fee is inappropriately paid for a filing for which no fee is established. Fees paid in excess of the fees established under this part may be refunded to the extent of the amount paid in excess. To obtain a refund, the applicant must file a motion requesting refund with the Commission.
[Order 433, 50 FR 40346, Oct. 3, 1985, as amended by Order 433-A, 51 FR 43607, Dec. 3, 1986]
§ 381.110
Fees for substantial amendments.
Fees established under this part for any filing will also be charged, as appropriate, for any substantial amendment to a pending filing. An amendment is considered substantial if it changes the character, nature, or the magnitude of the proposed activity or rate in the pending filing. For purposes of this section, an application for a temporary certificate is not considered to be an amendment to a pending certificate application.
[Order 433-A, 51 FR 43607, Dec. 3, 1986]

# Subpart B—Fees Applicable to the Natural Gas Act and Related Authorities
§ 381.207
Pipeline certificate applications.
(a)
Definition.
For purposes of this section, “pipeline certificate application” means any application for authorization or exemption, any substantial amendment to such an application, and any application, other than an application for a temporary certificate, for authorization to amend an outstanding authorization or exemption, by any person, made pursuant to section 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act filed in accordance with § 284.224 of this chapter.
(b)
Fee.
Unless the Commission orders direct billing under § 381.107 or otherwise, the fee established for a blanket certificate application is $1,000. The fee filed under this paragraph must be submitted in accordance with § 284.224 of this chapter.
(c)
Effective date.
Any pipeline certificate application filed with the Commission prior to November 4, 1985, is subject to the fees established by part 159 of this chapter to the extent that part 159 applies to such an application.
[Order 433, 50 FR 40346, Oct. 3, 1985, as amended by Order 433-A, 51 FR 43607, Dec. 3, 1986; 52 FR 10367, Apr. 1, 1987; 53 FR 15384, Apr. 29, 1988; 54 FR 12901, Mar. 29, 1989; 55 FR 13901, Apr. 13, 1990; 56 FR 15497, Apr. 17, 1991; 58 FR 2975, Jan. 7, 1993]

# Subpart C—Fees Applicable to General Activities
§ 381.302
Petition for issuance of a declaratory order (except under Part I of the Federal Power Act).
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the fee established for filing a petition for issuance of a declaratory order under § 385.207 of this chapter is $40,900. The fee must be submitted in accordance with subpart A of this part.
(b) No fee is necessary to file a petition for issuance of a declaratory order that solely concerns the investigation, issuance, transfer, renewal, revocation, and enforcement of licenses and permits for the construction, operation, and maintenance of dams, water conduits, reservoirs, powerhouses, transmission lines, or other works for the development and improvement of navigation and for the development and utilization of power across, along, from, or in navigable waters under Part I of the Federal Power Act.
(c) A person claiming the exemption provided in paragraph (b) of this section must file an original and two copies of a petition for exemption in lieu of a fee along with its petition for issuance of a declaratory order. The petition for exemption should summarize the issues raised in the petition for issuance of a declaratory order and explain why the exemption is applicable. The Commission or its designee will analyze each petition to determine whether the petition has met the standards for exemption and will notify the applicant whether it is granted or denied. If the petition is denied, the petitioner will have thirty days from the
date of notification of the denial to submit the appropriate fee to the Commission.
[Order 395, 49 FR 35356, Sept. 7, 1984]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 381.302, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 381.303
Review of a Department of Energy remedial order.
(a) Except as provided in § 381.303(b), the fee established for an answer to a Department of Energy remedial order under subpart I of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, 18 CFR part 385, subpart I (1983), is $59,710. The fee must be submitted in accordance with subpart A of this part.
(b) If the amount in controversy is below $30,000, then the fee to file a petition for review of a DOE remedial order is reduced as follows:
Fee
Amount in controversy:
$0 to $9,999
$100
$10,000 to $29,999
600
(c) In order to qualify for the fees in paragraph (b) of this section, the check must be accompanied by an affidavit by the petitioner that states the amount in controversy.
[Order 395, 49 FR 35356, Sept. 7, 1984]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 381.303, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 381.304
Review of Department of Energy denial of adjustment.
(a) Except as provided in § 381.304(b), the fee established for filing a petition for review of a Department of Energy denial of an adjustment request under subpart J of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, 18 CFR part 385, subpart J (1983), is $31,310. The fee must be submitted in accordance with subpart A of this part.
(b) If the amount in controversy is below $30,000, then the fee to file a petition for review of a DOE denial of an adjustment is reduced as follows:
Fee
Amount in controversy:
$0 to $9,999
$100
$10,000 to $29,999
600
(c) In order to qualify for the fees in paragraph (b) of this section, the check must be accompanied by an affidavit by the petitioner that states the amount in controversy.
[Order 395, 49 FR 35356, Sept. 7, 1984]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 381.304, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 381.305
Interpretations by the Office of the General Counsel.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the fee established for a written interpretation by the Office of the General Counsel of any statute or implementing regulation under the jurisdiction of the Commission is $11,730. The fee must be submitted in accordance with subpart A of this part and § 385.1901 or § 388.104 of this chapter.
(b) No fee is necessary to file a request for a written interpretation by the Office of the General Counsel that solely concerns matters under Part I of the Federal Power Act.
(c) A person claiming the exemption provided in paragraph (b) of this section must file an original and two copies of a petition for exemption in lieu of a fee along with the request for a written interpretation. The petition for exemption should summarize the issues raised in the request for a legal opinion and explain why the exemption is applicable. The Commission or its designee will analyze each petition to determine whether the petition has met the standards for exemption and will notify the applicant whether it is granted or denied. If the petition is denied, the applicant will have 30 days from the date of notification of the denial to submit the appropriate fee to the Commission.
[Order 494, 53 FR 15382, Apr. 29, 1988]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 381.305, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart D—Fees Applicable to the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978
§ 381.401
Review of jurisdictional agency determinations.
The fee established for review of a jurisdictional agency determination is $115. The fee must be submitted in accordance with subpart A of this part and § 270.301(c) of this chapter.
[Order 616, 65 FR 45872, July 26, 2000]
§ 381.403
Petitions for rate approval pursuant to § 284.123(b)(2).
The fee established for a petition for rate approval pursuant to § 284.123(b)(2) is $20,360. Such fee must be submitted in accordance with subpart A of this part and § 284.123(b)(2).
[Order 394, 49 FR 35365, Sept. 7, 1984]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 381.403, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 381.404
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Fees Applicable to Certain Matters Under Parts II and III of the Federal Power Act and the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act
§ 381.501
Applicability.
The fees set forth in this subpart apply to filings submitted on or after November 4, 1985.
[Order 435, 50 FR 40358, Oct. 3, 1985]
§ 381.505
Certification of qualifying status as a small power production facility or cogeneration facility.
(a) Unless the Commission orders direct billing under § 381.107 of this chapter or otherwise, the fee established for an application for Commission certification as a qualifying small power production facility, as defined in section 3(17) of the Federal Power Act, is $35,170 and the fee established for an application for Commission certification as a qualifying cogeneration facility, as defined in section 3(18) of the Federal Power Act, is $39,810.
(b) The fee filed under this section must be submitted in accordance with subpart A of this part and § 292.207(b)(2) of this chapter.
[Order 494, 53 FR 15382, Apr. 29, 1988]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 381.505, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Subpart F [Reserved]
Subpart G—Fees Applicable to the Interstate Commerce Act and Related Authorities [Reserved]
Pt. 382

# PART 382—ANNUAL CHARGES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
382.101
Purpose.
382.102
Definitions.
382.103
Payment.
382.104
Enforcement.
382.105
Waiver.
382.106
Accounting for annual charges paid under part 382.

# Subpart B—Annual Charges
382.201
Annual charges under Parts II and III of the Federal Power Act and related statutes.
382.202
Annual charges under the Natural Gas Act and Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and related statutes.
382.203
Annual charges under the Interstate Commerce Act.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C 551-557; 15 U.S.C 717-717w, 3301-3432; 16 U.S.C. 791a-825r, 2601-2645; 42 U.S.C. 7101-7352; 49 U.S.C. 60502; 49 App. U.S.C. 1-85.

# Source:
Order 472, 52 FR 21292, June 5, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 382.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to establish procedures for calculating and assessing annual charges to reimburse the United States for all of the costs incurred by the Commission, other than costs incurred in administering Part I of the Federal Power Act and costs recovered through the Commission's filing fees.
§ 382.102
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
(a)
Natural gas pipeline company
means any person:
(1) Engaged in natural gas sales for resale or natural gas transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under the Natural Gas Act whose sales for resale and transportation exceed 200,000 Mcf at 14.73 psi (60 °F) in any of the three calendar years immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the Commission is assessing annual charges; and
(2) Not engaged solely in “first sales” of natural gas as that term is defined in section 2(21) of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978; and
(3) To whom the Commission has not issued a Natural Gas Act Section 7(f) declaration; and
(4) Not holding a limited jurisdiction certificate.
(b)
Public utility
means any person who owns or operates facilities subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under Parts II and III of the Federal Power Act, and who has rate schedule(s) on file with the Commission and who is not a “qualifying small power producer” or a “qualifying cogenerator”, as those terms are defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act, or the United States or a state, or any political subdivision of the United States or a state, or any agency, authority, or instrumentality of the United States, a state, political subdivision of the United States, or political subdivision of a state.
(c)
Oil pipeline company
means any person engaged in the transportation of crude oil and petroleum products subject to the Commission's jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act with annual operating revenues greater than $350,000 in any of the three calendar years immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the Commission is assessing annual charges.
(d)
Natural gas regulatory program
is the Commission's regulation of the natural gas industry under the Natural Gas Act; Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978; Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Act; Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act; Department of Energy Organization Act; Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act; Energy Security Act; Regulatory Flexibility Act; Crude Oil Windfall Profit Tax Act; National Environmental Policy Act; National Historic Preservation Act.
(e)
Electric regulatory program
is the Commission's regulation of the electric industry under Parts II and III of the Federal Power Act; Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act; Powerplant and Industrial Fuel Use Act; Department of Energy Organization Act; Energy Security Act; Regulatory Flexibility Act; Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act; Flood Control and River and Harbor Acts; Bonneville Project Act; Federal Columbia River Transmission Act; Reclamation Project Act; Nuclear Waste Policy Act; National Environmental Policy Act; and the Public Utility Holding Company Act.
(f)
Oil regulatory program
is the Commission's regulation of the oil pipeline industry under the Interstate Commerce Act; Department of Energy Organization Act; Regulatory Flexibility Act; Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act; and the Crude Oil Windfall Profit Tax Act.
(g)
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint stock company, public trust, or organized group of persons, whether incorporated or not.
(h)
Operating revenues
means the monies:
(1) Received by an oil pipeline company for providing interstate common carrier services regulated by the Commission, and
(2) Included in FERC Account No. 200, 210, or 220 in FERC Annual Report Form No. 6, page 301, lines 1, 2 and 3, column d, under part 352 of the Commission's regulations.
(i)
Fiscal year
means the twelve-month period that begins on the first day of October and ends on the last day of September.
(j)
Preceding calendar year
means the twelve-month period that begins on the first day of January and ends the last day of December and immediately precedes the end of the fiscal year for which the Commission is assessing annual charges.
(k)
Adjusted costs of administration
means the difference between the estimated costs of administering a regulatory program for each fiscal year adjusted to reflect any overcollection or undercollection of cost attributable to that regulatory program in the annual charge assessment for the preceding fiscal year, and the estimated amount of filing fees collected during that fiscal year under the provisions of parts 346 and 381 of the Commission's regulations for activities that relate to that regulatory program.
(l)
Power Marketing Agencies
means the Bonneville Power Administration, the Alaska Power Administration, the Southeastern Power Administration, the Southwestern Power Administration, and the Western Area Power Administration.
[Order 472, 52 FR 21292, June 5, 1987, as amended by Order 472-B, 52 FR 36022, Sept. 25, 1987; Order 529, 55 FR 47321, Nov. 13, 1990; Order 575, 60 FR 4859, Jan. 25, 1995; Order 583, 60 FR 53117, Oct. 12, 1995; Order 641, 65 FR 65768, Nov. 2, 2000]
§ 382.103
Payment.
(a) Annual charges assessed under this part must be paid within 45 days of the issuance of the bill by the Commission, unless a petition for waiver has been filed under § 382.105 of this part.
(b) Payment must be made by check, draft, or money order, payable to the United States Treasury.
(c) If payment is not made within 45 days of issuance of a bill, interest will be assessed. Interest will be computed in accordance with § 154.501(d) of this chapter, from the date on which the bill becomes delinquent.
[Order 472, 52 FR 21292, June 5, 1987, as amended at 61 FR 13421, Mar. 27, 1996]
§ 382.104
Enforcement.
The Commission may refuse to process any petition, application, or other filing submitted by or on the behalf of any person that does not pay the annual charge assessed when due, or may take any other appropriate action permitted by law.
§ 382.105
Waiver.
(a)
Filing of petition.
Any annual charges bill recipient may submit a petition for waiver of the regulations in this part. An original and two copies of a petition for waiver must include evidence, such as a financial statement, clearly showing either that the petitioner does not have the money to pay all or part of the annual charge, or, if the petitioner does pay the annual charge, that the petitioner will be placed in financial distress or emergency. Petitions for waiver must be filed with the Office of the Secretary of the Commission within 15 days of issuance of the bill.
(b)
Decision on petition.
The Commission or its designee will review the petition for waiver and then will notify the applicant of its grant or denial, in whole or in part. If the petition is denied in whole or in part, the annual charge becomes due 30 days from the date of notification of the denial.
§ 382.106
Accounting for annual charges paid under part 382.
(a) Any natural gas pipeline company subject to the provisions of this part must account for annual charges paid by charging the account to Account No. 928, Regulatory Commission Expenses, of the Commission's Uniform System of Accounts.
(b) Any public utility subject to the provisions of this part must account for annual charges paid by charging the amount to Account No. 928, Regulatory Commission Expenses, of the Commission's Uniform System Accounts.
(c) Any oil pipeline company subject to the provisions of this part must account for annual charges paid by charging the amount to Account No. 510, Supplies and Expenses, of the Commission's Uniform System of Accounts.
[Order 472, 52 FR 21292, June 5, 1987, as amended by Order 472-B, 52 FR 36022, Sept. 25, 1987]

# Subpart B—Annual Charges
§ 382.201
Annual charges under Parts II and III of the Federal Power Act and related statutes.
(a)
Determination of costs to be assessed to public utilities.
The adjusted costs of administration of the electric regulatory program, excluding the costs of regulating the Power Marketing Agencies, will be assessed to public utilities
that provide transmission service (measured, as discussed in paragraph (c) of this section, by the sum of the megawatt-hours of all unbundled transmission and the megawatt-hours of all bundled wholesale power sales (to the extent these latter megawatt-hours were not separately reported as unbundled transmission)).
(b)
Determination of annual charges to be assessed to public utilities.
The costs determined under paragraph (a) of this section will be assessed as annual charges to each public utility providing transmission service based on the proportion of the megawatt-hours of transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce of each such public utility in the immediately preceding reporting year (either a calendar year or fiscal year, depending on which accounting convention is used by the public utility to be charged) to the sum of the megawatt-hours of transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce in the immediately preceding reporting year of all such public utilities.
(c)
Reporting requirement.
(1) For purposes of computing annual charges, as of January 1, 2002, a public utility, as defined in § 382.102(b), that provides transmission service must submit under oath to the Office of the Secretary by April 30 of each year an original and conformed copies of the following information (designated as FERC Reporting Requirement No. 582 (FERC-582)): The total megawatt-hours of transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce, which for purposes of computing the annual charges and for purposes of this reporting requirement, will be measured by the sum of the megawatt-hours of all unbundled transmission (including MWh delivered in wheeling transactions and MWh delivered in exchange transactions) and the megawatt-hours of all bundled wholesale power sales (to the extent these latter megawatt-hours were not separately reported as unbundled transmission). This information must be reported to 3 decimal places;
e.g.,
3,105 KWh will be reported as 3.105 MWh.
(2) Corrections to the information reported on FERC-582, as of January 1, 2002, must be submitted under oath to the Office of the Secretary on or before the end of each calendar year in which the information was originally reported (i.e., on or before the last day of the year that the Commission is open to accept such filings).
(d)
Determination of annual charges to be assessed to power marketing agencies.
The adjusted costs of administration of the electric regulatory program as it applies to Power Marketing Agencies will be assessed against each power marketing agency based on the proportion of the megawatt-hours of sales of each power marketing agency in the immediately preceding reporting year (either a calendar year or fiscal year, depending on which accounting convention is used by the power marketing agency to be charged) to the sum of the megawatt-hours of sales in the immediately preceding reporting year of all power marketing agencies being assessed annual charges.
[Order 641, 65 FR 65768, Nov. 2, 2000]
§ 382.202
Annual charges under the Natural Gas Act and Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and related statutes.
The adjusted costs of administration of the natural gas regulatory program will be assessed against each natural gas pipeline company based on the proportion of the total gas subject to Commission regulation which was sold and transported by each company in the immediately preceding calendar year to the sum of the gas subject to the Commission regulation which was sold and transported in the immediately preceding calendar year by all natural gas pipeline companies being assessed annual charges.
[Order 472-B, 52 FR 36022, Sept. 25, 1987]
§ 382.203
Annual charges under the Interstate Commerce Act.
(a) The adjusted costs of administration of the oil regulatory program will be assessed against each oil pipeline company based on the proportion of the total operation revenues of each oil pipeline company for the immediately preceding calendar year to the sum of the operating revenues for the immediately preceding calendar year of all oil pipeline companies being assessed annual charges.
(b) No oil pipeline company's annual charge may exceed a maximum charge established each year by the Commission to equal 6.339 percent of the adjusted costs of administration of the oil regulatory program. The maximum charge will be rounded to the nearest $1000. For every company with an annual charge determined to be above the maximum charge, that company's annual charge will be set at the maximum charge, and any amount above the maximum charge will be reapportioned to the remaining companies. The reapportionment will be computed using the method outlined in paragraph (a) of this section (but excluding any company whose annual charge is already set at the maximum amount). This procedure will be repeated until no company's annual charge exceeds the maximum charge.

# SUBCHAPTER X—PROCEDURAL RULES
Pt. 385

# PART 385—RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

# Subpart A—Applicability and Definitions
Sec.
385.101
Applicability (Rule 101).
385.102
Definitions (Rule 102).
385.103
References to rules (Rule 103).
385.104
Rule of construction (Rule 104).

# Subpart B—Pleadings, Tariff and Rate Filings, Notices of Tariff or Rate Examination, Orders To Show Cause, Intervention, and Summary Disposition
385.201
Applicability (Rule 201).
385.202
Types of pleadings (Rule 202).
385.203
Content of pleadings and tariff or rate filings (Rule 203).
385.204
Applications (Rule 204).
385.205
Tariff or rate filings (Rule 205).
385.206
Complaints (Rule 206).
385.207
Petitions (Rule 207).
385.208
[Reserved]
385.209
Notices of tariff or rate examination and orders to show cause (Rule 209).
385.210
Method of notice; dates established in notice (Rule 210).
385.211
Protests other than under Rule 208 (Rule 211).
385.212
Motions (Rule 212).
385.213
Answers (Rule 213).
385.214
Intervention (Rule 214).
385.215
Amendment of pleadings and tariff or rate filings (Rule 215).
385.216
Withdrawal of pleadings (Rule 216).
385.217
Summary disposition (Rule 217).
385.218
Simplified procedure for complaints involving small controversies (Rule 218).
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Discovery Procedures for Matters Set for Hearing Under Subpart E
385.401
Applicability (Rule 401).
385.402
Scope of discovery (Rule 402).
385.403
Methods of discovery; general provisions (Rule 403).
385.404
Depositions during proceedings (Rule 404).
385.405
Use of depositions (Rule 405).
385.406
Data requests, interrogatories, and requests for production of documents or things (Rule 406).
385.407
Inspection of documents and other property (Rule 407).
385.408
Admissions (Rule 408).
385.409
Subpoenas (Rule 409).
385.410
Objections to discovery, motions to quash or to compel, and protective orders (Rule 410).
385.411
Sanctions (Rule 411).

# Subpart E—Hearings
385.501
Applicability (Rule 501).
385.502
Initiation of a hearing (Rule 502).
385.503
Consolidation, severance and extension of close-of-record date by Chief Administrative Law Judge (Rule 503).
385.504
Duties and powers of presiding officers (Rule 504).
385.505
Right of participants to present evidence (Rule 505).
385.506
Examination of witnesses during hearing (Rule 506).
385.507
Prepared written testimony (Rule 507).
385.508
Exhibits (Rule 508).
385.509
Admissibility of evidence (Rule 509).
385.510
Miscellaneous provisions (Rule 510).

# Subpart F—Conferences, Settlements, and Stipulations
385.601
Conferences (Rule 601).
385.602
Submission of settlement offers (Rule 602).
385.603
Settlement of negotiations before a settlement judge (Rule 603).
385.604
Alternative means of dispute resolution (Rule 604).
385.605
Arbitration (Rule 605).
385.606
Confidentiality in dispute resolution proceedings (Rule 606).

# Subpart G—Decisions
385.701
Applicability (Rule 701).
385.702
Definitions (Rule 702).
385.703
Contents of decisions (Rule 703).
385.704
Rights of participants before initial decision (Rule 704).
385.705
Additional powers of presiding officer with respect to briefs (Rule 705).
385.706
Initial and reply briefs before initial decision (Rule 706).
385.707
Oral argument before initial decision (Rule 707).
385.708
Initial decisions by presiding officer (Rule 708).
385.709
Other types of decisions (Rule 709).
385.710
Waiver of the initial decision (Rule 710).
385.711
Exceptions and briefs on and opposing exceptions after initial decision (Rule 711).
385.712
Commission review of initial decisions in the absence of exceptions (Rule 712).
385.713
Request for rehearing (Rule 713).
385.714
Certified questions (Rule 714).
385.715
Interlocutory appeals to the Commission from rulings of presiding officers (Rule 715).
385.716
Reopening (Rule 716).

# Subpart H—Shortened Procedures
385.801
Waiver of hearing (Rule 801).
385.802
Noncontested proceedings (Rule 802).

# Subpart I—Commission Review of Remedial Orders
385.901
Scope (Rule 901).
385.902
Definitions (Rule 902).
385.903
Request for nondisclosure of information (Rule 903).
385.904
Commencement of proceeding (Rule 904).
385.905
Stay of contested order (Rule 905).
385.906
Pleadings (Rule 906).
385.907
New facts and issues (Rule 907).
385.908
Discovery (Rule 908).
385.909
Hearing (Rule 909).
385.910
Conduct of the hearing (Rule 910).
385.911
Burden of proof (Rule 911).
385.912
Proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and comments (Rule 912).
385.913
Proposed order (Rule 913).
385.914
Commission action (Rule 914).
385.915
Off-the-record communications (Rule 915).
385.916
Withdrawal of petition for review (Rule 916).
385.917
Sanctions (Rule 917).

# Subpart J—Commission Review of Adjustment Request Denials
385.1001
Scope (Rule 1001).
385.1002
Definitions (Rule 1002).
385.1003
Request for nondisclosure of information (Rule 1003).
385.1004
Commencement of proceedings (Rule 1004).
385.1005
Replies (Rule 1005).
385.1006
Request for hearing (Rule 1006).
385.1007
Presiding officer (Rule 1007).
385.1008
Hearings (Rule 1008).
385.1009
Proof (Rule 1009).
385.1010
Certification of the record (Rule 1010).
385.1011
Final order (Rule 1011).
385.1012
Off-the-record communications (Rule 1012).
385.1013
Attachments to pleadings (Rule 1013).

# Subpart K—Petitions for Adjustments Under the NGPA
385.1101
Applicability (Rule 1101).
385.1102
Definitions (Rule 1102).
385.1103
Commencement of proceeding (Rule 1103).
385.1104
Initial petition (Rule 1104).
385.1105
Intervention (Rule 1105).
385.1106
Other filings (Rule 1106).
385.1107
Evaluations (Rule 1107).
385.1108
Criteria (Rule 1108).
385.1109
Orders (Rule 1109).
385.1110
Review of initial decision and order for adjustment (Rule 1110).
385.1111
Conferences (Rule 1111).
385.1112
Requests for confidential treatment (Rule 1112).
385.1113
Interim relief (Rule 1113).
385.1114
Motions (Rule 1114).
385.1115
Procedural rulings (Rule 1115).
385.1116
Appeals (Rule 1116).
385.1117
Petition for adjustment treated as request for interpretation (Rule 1117).
Subpart L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Cooperative Procedure with State Commissions
385.1301
Policy (Rule 1301).
385.1302
Notice (Rule 1302).
385.1303
Conferences (Rule 1303).
385.1304
Procedure governing matters referred to a board (Rule 1304).
385.1305
Joint and concurrent hearings (Rule 1305).
385.1306
Intervention by State commissions (Rule 1306).

# Subpart N—Oil Pipeline Proceedings
385.1401
Applicability (Rule 1401).
385.1402
Subscriber lists (Rule 1402).
385.1403
Petitions seeking institution of rulemaking proceedings (Rule 1404).

# Subpart O—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under Section 31 of the Federal Power Act
385.1501
Scope (Rule 1501).
385.1502
Persons subject to civil penalties (Rule 1502).
385.1503
Actions subjecting persons to civil penalties (Rule 1503).
385.1504
Maximum civil penalty (Rule 1504).
385.1505
Determination of proposed penalty amount (Rule 1505).
385.1506
Notice of proposed penalty (Rule 1506).
385.1507
Election of procedures and answer (Rule 1507).
385.1508
Commission administrative procedures (Rule 1508).
385.1509
District court procedures (Rule 1509).
385.1510
Modification of civil penalty (Rule 1510).
385.1511
Collection of civil penalties (Rule 1511).

# Subpart P—Civil Monetary Penalty Inflation Adjustment
385.1601
Scope and purpose (Rule 1601).
385.1602
Civil penalties, as adjusted (Rule 1602).
Subparts Q-R [Reserved]

# Subpart S—Miscellaneous
385.1901
Interpretations and interpretive rules under the NGPA (Rule 1901).
385.1902
Appeals from action of staff (Rule 1902).
385.1903
Notice in rulemaking proceedings (Rule 1903).
385.1904
Copies of transcripts (Rule 1904).
385.1907
Reports of compliance (Rule 1907).

# Subpart T—Formal Requirements for Filings in Proceedings Before the Commission
385.2001
Filings and Other Submissions.
385.2002
Caption of filings (Rule 2002).
385.2003
Specifications (Rule 2003).
385.2004
Originals and copies of filings (Rule 2004).
385.2005
Subscription and verification (Rule 2005).
385.2006
Docket system (Rule 2006).
385.2007
Time (Rule 2007).
385.2008
Extensions of time (Rule 2008).
385.2009
Notice (Rule 2009).
385.2010
Service (Rule 2010).
385.2011
Procedures for filing on electronic media (Rule 2011).
385.2012
Petitions for review of Commission Orders (Rule 2012).
385.2013
Notification of requests for Federal authorizations and requests for further information (Rule 2013).
385.2014
Petitions for appeal or review of Federal authorizations (Rule 2014).
385.2015
Videotapes (Rule 2015).

# Subpart U—Appearance and Practice Before the Commission
385.2101
Appearances (Rule 2101).
385.2102
Suspension (Rule 2102).
385.2103
Appearance of former employees (Rule 2103).

# Subpart V—Off-the-Record Communications; Separation of Functions
385.2201
Rules governing off-the-record communications (Rule 2201).
385.2202
Separation of functions (Rule 2202).

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 551-557; 15 U.S.C. 717-717w, 3301-3432; 16 U.S.C. 791a-825v, 2601-2645; 28 U.S.C. 2461; 31 U.S.C 3701, 9701; 42 U.S.C. 7101-7352, 16441, 16451-16463; 49 U.S.C. 60502; 49 App. U.S.C. 1-85 (1988); 28 U.S.C. 2461 note (1990); 28 U.S.C. 2461 note (2015).

# Source:
Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Applicability and Definitions
§ 385.101
Applicability (Rule 101).
(a)
General rules.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this part applies to:
(1) Any filing or proceeding under this chapter; and
(2) Any oil pipeline filing or proceeding under this chapter or 49 CFR Chapter X and replaces the Interstate Commerce Commission General Rules of Practice (49 CFR part 1100) with respect to any oil pipeline filing or proceeding.
(b)
Exceptions.
(1) This part does not apply to investigations under part 1b of this chapter.
(2) If any provision of this part is inconsistent with any provision of another part of this chapter, the provision of this part is inapplicable and the provision of the other part governs to the extent of the inconsistency.
(3) If any provision of this part is inconsistent with any provision of 49 CFR Chapter X that is not otherwise replaced by this part or Commission rule or order, the provision of this part is inapplicable and the provision of 49 CFR Chapter X governs to the extent of the inconsistency.
(c)
Transitional provisions.
(1) This part applies to any filing submitted on or after and to any proceeding pending on or initiated after, August 26, 1982.
(2) A decisional authority may, in the interest of justice:
(i) Apply the appropriate provisions of the prior Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR part 1) to any filing submitted after, or to any proceeding or part of a proceeding pending on August 26, 1982;
(ii) Apply the provisions of this part to any filing submitted, or any proceeding or part of a proceeding initiated, after April 28, 1982 but before August 26, 1982.
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Waiver.
To the extent permitted by law, the Commission may, for good cause, waive any provision of this part or prescribe any alternative procedures that it determines to be appropriate.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 376, 49 FR 21705, May 23, 1984; Order 607, 65 FR 51234, Sept. 22, 1999]
§ 385.102
Definitions (Rule 102).
For purposes of this part—
(a)
Decisional authority
means the Commission or Commission employee that, at the time for decision on a question, has authority or responsibility under this chapter to decide that particular question.
(b)
Participant
means:
(1) Any party; or
(2) Any employee of the Commission assigned to present the position of the Commission staff in a proceeding before the Commission.
(c)
Party
means, with respect to a proceeding:
(1) A person filing any application, petition, tariff or rate filing, complaint, or any protest under section 19a(i) of the Interstate Commerce Act (49 U.S.C. 19a(i));
(2) Any respondent to a proceeding; or
(3) Any person whose intervention in a proceeding is effective under Rule 214.
(d)
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint stock company, public trust, an organized group of persons, whether incorporated or not, a receiver or trustee of the foregoing, a municipality, including a city, county, or any other political subdivision of a State, a State, the District of Columbia, any territory of the United States or any agency of any of the foregoing, any agency, authority, or instrumentality of the United States (other than the Commission), or any corporation which is owned directly or indirectly by the United States, or any officer, agent, or employee of any of the foregoing acting as such in the course of his or her official duty. The term also includes a foreign government or any agency, authority, or instrumentality thereof.
(e)
Presiding officer
means:
(1) With respect to any proceeding set for hearing under subpart E of this part, one or more Members of the Commission, or any administrative law judge, designated to preside at such hearing, or, if no Commissioner or administrative law judge is designated, the Chief Administrative Law Judge; or
(2) With respect to any proceeding not set for hearing under subpart E, any employee designated by rule or order to conduct the proceeding.
(f)
Respondent
means any person:
(1) To whom an order to show cause or notice of tariff or rate examination is issued by the Commission;
(2) Against whom a complaint is directed; or
(3) Designated as a respondent by the Commission or by the terms of this chapter.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 606, 64 FR 44405, Aug. 16, 1999]
§ 385.103
References to rules (Rule 103).
This part cross-references its sections according to rule number, as indicated by the section titles. Any filing with the Commission may refer to any section of this part by rule number; for example, “Rule 103.”
§ 385.104
Rule of construction (Rule 104).
To the extent that
the text of a rule is inconsistent with its caption, the text of the rule controls.
[Order 376, 49 FR 21705, May 23, 1984]

# Subpart B—Pleadings, Tariff and Rate Filings, Notices of Tariff or Rate Examination, Orders To Show Cause, Intervention, and Summary Disposition
§ 385.201
Applicability (Rule 201).
This subpart applies to any pleading, tariff or rate filing, notice of tariff or rate examination, order to show cause, intervention, or summary disposition.
§ 385.202
Types of pleadings (Rule 202).
Pleadings include any application, complaint, petition, protest, notice of protest, answer, motion, and any amendment or withdrawal of a pleading. Pleadings do not include comments on rulemakings or comments on offers of settlement.
§ 385.203
Content of pleadings and tariff or rate filings (Rule 203).
(a)
Requirements for a pleading or a tariff or rate filing.
Each pleading and
each tariff or rate filing must include, as appropriate:
(1) If known, the reference numbers, docket numbers, or other identifying symbols of any relevant tariff, rate, schedule, contract, application, rule, or similar matter or material;
(2) The name of each participant for whom the filing is made or, if the filing is made for a group of participants, the name of the group, provided that the name of each member of the group is set forth in a previously filed document which is identified in the filing being made;
(3) The specific authorization or relief sought;
(4) The tariff or rate sheets or sections;
(5) The name and address of each person against whom the complaint is directed;
(6) The relevant facts, if not set forth in a previously filed document which is identified in the filing being made;
(7) The position taken by the participant filing any pleading, to the extent known when the pleading is filed, and the basis in fact and law for such position;
(8) Subscription or verification, if required;
(9) A certificate of service under Rule 2010(h), if service is required;
(10) The name, address, and telephone number of an individual who, with respect to any matter contained in the filing, represents the person for whom filing is made; and
(11) Any additional information required to be included by statute, rule, or order.
(b)
Requirement for any initial pleading or tariff or rate filing.
The initial pleading or tariff or rate filing submitted by a participant or a person seeking to become a party must conform to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and must include:
(1) The exact name of the person for whom the filing is made;
(2) The location of that person's principal place of business; and
(3) The name, address, and telephone number of at least one, but not more than two, persons upon whom service is to be made and to whom communications are to be addressed in the proceeding.
(c)
Combined filings.
If two or more pleadings, or one or more pleadings and a tariff or rate filing are included as items in a single filing each such item must be separately designated and must conform to the requirements which would be applicable to it if filed separately.
(d)
Form of notice.
If a pleading or tariff or rate filing must include a form of notice suitable for publication in the
Federal Register,
the company shall submit the draft notice in accordance with the form of notice specifications prescribed by the Secretary and posted on the Commission's website under Filing Procedures at
https://www.ferc.gov.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 647, 69 FR 32439, June 10, 2004; Order 663, 70 FR 55725, Sept. 23, 2005; 71 FR 14642, Mar. 23, 2006; Order 714, 73 FR 57538, Oct. 3, 2008; Order 899, 88 FR 74032, Oct. 30, 2023]
§ 385.204
Applications (Rule 204).
Any person seeking a license, permit, certification, or similar authorization or permission, must file an application to obtain that authorization or permission.
§ 385.205
Tariff or rate filings (Rule 205).
(a) A person must make a tariff or rate filing in order to establish or change any specific rate, rate schedule, tariff, tariff schedule, fare, charge, or term or condition of service, or any classification, contract, practice, or any related regulation established by and for the applicant.
(b) A tariff or rate filing must be made electronically in accordance with the requirements and formats for electronic filing listed in the instructions for electronic filings. A tariff or rate filing not made in accordance with these requirements and formats will not have a statutory action date and will not become effective should the Commission not act by the requested action date.
[Order 714-A, 79 FR 29077, May 21, 2014]
§ 385.206
Complaints (Rule 206).
(a)
General rule.
Any person may file a complaint seeking Commission action against any other person alleged to be in contravention or violation of
any statute, rule, order, or other law administered by the Commission, or for any other alleged wrong over which the Commission may have jurisdiction.
(b)
Contents.
A complaint must:
(1) Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate applicable statutory standards or regulatory requirements;
(2) Explain how the action or inaction violates applicable statutory standards or regulatory requirements;
(3) Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues presented by the action or inaction as such relate to or affect the complainant;
(4) Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if any) created for the complainant as a result of the action or inaction;
(5) Indicate the practical, operational, or other nonfinancial impacts imposed as a result of the action or inaction, including, where applicable, the environmental, safety or reliability impacts of the action or inaction;
(6) State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing Commission proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the complainant is a party, and if so, provide an explanation why timely resolution cannot be achieved in that forum;
(7) State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for stay or extension of time, and the basis for that relief;
(8) Include all documents that support the facts in the complaint in possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the complainant, including, but not limited to, contracts and affidavits;
(9) State
(i) Whether the Enforcement Hotline, Dispute Resolution Service, tariff-based dispute resolution mechanisms, or other informal dispute resolution procedures were used, or why these procedures were not used;
(ii) Whether the complainant believes that alternative dispute resolution (ADR) under the Commission's supervision could successfully resolve the complaint;
(iii) What types of ADR procedures could be used; and
(iv) Any process that has been agreed on for resolving the complaint.
(10) Include a form of notice of the complaint suitable for publication in the
Federal Register
in accordance with the specifications in § 385.203(d) of this part. The form of notice shall be on electronic media as specified by the Secretary.
(11) Explain with respect to requests for Fast Track processing pursuant to section 385.206(h), why the standard processes will not be adequate for expeditiously resolving the complaint.
(c)
Service.
Any person filing a complaint must serve a copy of the complaint on the respondent, affected regulatory agencies, and others the complainant reasonably knows may be expected to be affected by the complaint. Service must be simultaneous with filing at the Commission for respondents. Simultaneous or overnight service is permissible for other affected entities. Simultaneous service can be accomplished by electronic mail in accordance with § 385.2010(f)(3), facsimile, express delivery, or messenger.
(d)
Notice.
Public notice of the complaint will be issued by the Commission.
(e) [Reserved]
(f)
Answers, interventions and comments.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, answers, interventions, and comments to a complaint must be filed within 20 days after the complaint is filed. In cases where the complainant requests privileged treatment for information in its complaint, answers, interventions, and comments are due within 30 days after the complaint is filed. In the event there is an objection to the protective agreement, the Commission will establish when answers will be due.
(g)
Complaint resolution paths.
One of the following procedures may be used to resolve complaints:
(1) The Commission may assign a case to be resolved through alternative dispute resolution procedures in accordance with §§ 385.604-385.606, in cases where the affected parties consent, or the Commission may order the appointment of a settlement judge in accordance with § 385.603;
(2) The Commission may issue an order on the merits based upon the pleadings;
(3) The Commission may establish a hearing before an ALJ;
(h)
Fast Track processing.
(1) The Commission may resolve complaints using Fast Track procedures if the complaint requires expeditious resolution. Fast Track procedures may include expedited action on the pleadings by the Commission, expedited hearing before an ALJ, or expedited action on requests for stay, extension of time, or other relief by the Commission or an ALJ.
(2) A complainant may request Fast Track processing of a complaint by including such a request in its complaint, captioning the complaint in bold type face “COMPLAINT REQUESTING FAST TRACK PROCESSING,” and explaining why expedition is necessary as required by section 385.206(b)(11).
(3) Based on an assessment of the need for expedition, the period for filing answers, interventions and comments to a complaint requesting Fast Track processing may be shortened by the Commission from the time provided in section 385.206(f).
(4) After the answer is filed, the Commission will issue promptly an order specifying the procedure and any schedule to be followed.
(i)
Simplified procedure for small controversies.
A simplified procedure for complaints involving small controversies is found in section 385.218 of this subpart.
(j)
Satisfaction.
(1) If the respondent to a complaint satisfies such complaint, in whole or in part, either before or after an answer is filed, the complainant and the respondent must sign and file:
(i) A statement setting forth when and how the complaint was satisfied; and
(ii) A motion for dismissal of, or an amendment to, the complaint based on the satisfaction.
(2) The decisional authority may order the submission of additional information before acting on a motion for dismissal or an amendment under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 602, 64 FR 17097, Apr. 8, 1999; Order 602-A, 64 FR 43608, Aug. 11, 1999; Order 647, 69 FR 32440, June 10, 2004; Order 769, 77 FR 65476, Oct. 29, 2012]
§ 385.207
Petitions (Rule 207).
(a)
General rule.
A person must file a petition when seeking:
(1) Relief under subpart I, J, or K of this part;
(2) A declaratory order or rule to terminate a controversy or remove uncertainty;
(3) Action on appeal from a staff action, other than a decision or ruling of a presiding officer, under Rule 1902;
(4) A rule of general applicability; or
(5) Any other action which is in the discretion of the Commission and for which this chapter prescribes no other form of pleading.
(b)
Declarations of intent under the Federal Power Act.
For purposes of this part, a declaration of intent under section 23(b) of the Federal Power Act is treated as a petition for a declaratory order.
(c) Except as provided in § 381.302(b), each petition for issuance of a declaratory order must be accompanied by the fee prescribed in § 381.302(a).
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 395, 49 FR 35357, Sept. 7, 1984]
§ 385.208
[Reserved]
§ 385.209
Notices of tariff or rate examination and orders to show cause (Rule 209).
(a)
Issuance.
(1) If the Commission seeks to determine the validity of any rate, rate schedule, tariff, tariff schedule, fare, charge, or term or condition of service, or any classification, contract, practice, or any related regulation established by and for the applicant which is demanded, observed, charged, or collected, the Commission will initiate a proceeding by issuing a notice of tariff or rate examination.
(2) The Commission may initiate a proceeding against a person by issuing an order to show cause.
(b)
Contents.
A notice of examination or an order to show cause will contain a statement of the matters about which the Commission is inquiring, and a statement of the authority under which the Commission is acting. The statement is tentative and sets forth issues to be considered by the Commission.
(c)
Answers.
A person who is ordered to show cause must answer in accordance with Rule 213.
§ 385.210
Method of notice; dates established in notice (Rule 210).
(a)
Method.
When the Secretary gives notice of tariff or rate filings, applications, petitions, notices of tariff or rate examinations, and orders to show cause, the Secretary will give such notice in accordance with Rule 2009.
(b)
Dates for filing interventions and protests.
A notice given under this section will establish the dates for filing interventions and protests. Only those filings made within the time prescribed in the notice will be considered timely.
§ 385.211
Protests other than under Rule 208 (Rule 211).
(a)
General rule.
(1) Any person may file a protest to object to any application, complaint, petition, order to show cause, notice of tariff or rate examination, or tariff or rate filing.
(2) The filing of a protest does not make the protestant a party to the proceeding. The protestant must intervene under Rule 214 to become a party.
(3) Subject to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the Commission will consider protests in determining further appropriate action. Protests will be placed in the public file associated with the proceeding.
(4) If a proceeding is set for hearing under subpart E of this part, the protest is not part of the record upon which the decision is made.
(b)
Service.
(1) Any protest directed against a person in a proceeding must be served by the protestant on the person against whom the protest is directed.
(2) The Secretary may waive any procedural requirement of this subpart applicable to protests. If the requirement of service under this paragraph is waived, the Secretary will place the protest in the public file and may send a copy thereof to any person against whom the protest is directed.
§ 385.212
Motions (Rule 212).
(a)
General rule.
A motion may be filed:
(1) At any time, unless otherwise provided;
(2) By a participant or a person who has filed a timely motion to intervene which has not been denied;
(3) In any proceeding except an informal rulemaking proceeding.
(b)
Written and oral motions.
Any motion must be filed in writing, except that the presiding officer may permit an oral motion to be made on the record during a hearing or conference.
(c)
Contents.
A motion must contain a clear and concise statement of:
(1) The facts and law which support the motion; and
(2) The specific relief or ruling requested.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 225-A, 47 FR 35956, Aug. 18, 1982; Order 376, 49 FR 21705, May 23, 1984]
§ 385.213
Answers (Rule 213).
(a)
Required or permitted.
(1) Any respondent to a complaint or order to show cause must make an answer, unless the Commission orders otherwise.
(2) An answer may not be made to a protest, an answer, a motion for oral argument, or a request for rehearing, unless otherwise ordered by the decisional authority. A presiding officer may prohibit an answer to a motion for interlocutory appeal. If an answer is not otherwise permitted under this paragraph, no responsive pleading may be made.
(3) An answer may be made to any pleading, if not prohibited under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(4) An answer to a notice of tariff or rate examination must be made in accordance with the provisions of such notice.
(b)
Written or oral answers.
Any answer must be in writing, except that the presiding officer may permit an oral answer to a motion made on the record during a hearing conducted under subpart E or during a conference.
(c)
Contents.
(1) An answer must contain a clear and concise statement of:
(i) Any disputed factual allegations; and
(ii) Any law upon which the answer relies.
(2) When an answer is made in response to a complaint, an order to show cause, or an amendment to such pleading, the answerer must, to the extent practicable:
(i) Admit or deny, specifically and in detail, each material allegation of the pleading answered; and
(ii) Set forth every defense relied on.
(3) General denials of facts referred to in any order to show cause, unsupported by the specific facts upon which the respondent relies, do not comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section and may be a basis for summary disposition under Rule 217, unless otherwise required by statute.
(4) An answer to a complaint must include documents that support the facts in the answer in possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the respondent, including, but not limited to, contracts and affidavits. An answer is also required to describe the formal or consensual process it proposes for resolving the complaint.
(5) When submitting with its answer any request for privileged treatment of documents and information in accordance with this chapter, a respondent must provide a public version of its answer without the information for which privileged treatment is claimed and its proposed form of protective agreement to each entity that has either been served pursuant to § 385.206(c) or whose name is on the official service list for the proceeding compiled by the Secretary.
(d)
Time limitations.
(1) Any answer to a motion or to an amendment to a motion must be made within 15 days after the motion or amendment is filed, except as described below or unless otherwise ordered.
(i) If a motion requests an extension of time or a shortened time period for action, then answers to the motion to extend or shorten the time period shall be made within 5 days after the motion is filed, unless otherwise ordered.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) Any answer to a pleading or amendment to a pleading, other than a complaint or an answer to a motion under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, must be made:
(i) If notice of the pleading or amendment is published in the
Federal Register,
not later than 30 days after such publication, unless otherwise ordered; or
(ii) If notice of the pleading or amendment is not published in the
Federal Register,
not later than 30 days after the filing of the pleading or amendment, unless otherwise ordered.
(e)
Failure to answer.
(1) Any person failing to answer a complaint may be considered in default, and all relevant facts stated in such complaint may be deemed admitted.
(2) Failure to answer an order to show cause will be treated as a general denial to which paragraph (c)(3) of this section applies.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982; 48 FR 786, Jan. 7, 1983, as amended by Order 376, 49 FR 21705, May 23, 1984; Order 602, 64 FR 17099, Apr. 8, 1999; Order 602-A, 64 FR 43608, Aug. 11, 1999; Order 769, 77 FR 65476, Oct. 29, 2012]
§ 385.214
Intervention (Rule 214).
(a)
Filing.
(1) The Secretary of Energy is a party to any proceeding upon filing a notice of intervention in that proceeding. If the Secretary's notice is not filed within the period prescribed under Rule 210(b), the notice must state the position of the Secretary on the issues in the proceeding.
(2) Any State Commission, the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, and the Interior, any state fish and wildlife, water quality certification, or water rights agency; or Indian tribe with authority to issue a water quality certification is a party to any proceeding upon filing a notice of intervention in that proceeding, if the notice is filed within the period established under Rule 210(b). If the period for filing notice has expired, each entity identified in this paragraph must comply with the rules for motions to intervene applicable to any person under paragraph (a)(3) of this section including the content requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) Any person seeking to intervene to become a party, other than the entities specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, must file a motion to intervene.
(4) No person, including entities listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, may intervene as a matter of right in a proceeding arising from an investigation pursuant to Part 1b of this chapter.
(b)
Contents of motion.
(1) Any motion to intervene must state, to the extent
known, the position taken by the movant and the basis in fact and law for that position.
(2) A motion to intervene must also state the movant's interest in sufficient factual detail to demonstrate that:
(i) The movant has a right to participate which is expressly conferred by statute or by Commission rule, order, or other action;
(ii) The movant has or represents an interest which may be directly affected by the outcome of the proceeding, including any interest as a:
(A) Consumer,
(B) Customer,
(C) Competitor, or
(D) Security holder of a party; or
(iii) The movant's participation is in the public interest.
(3) If a motion to intervene is filed after the end of any time period established under Rule 210, such a motion must, in addition to complying with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, show good cause why the time limitation should be waived.
(c)
Grant of party status.
(1) If no answer in opposition to a timely motion to intervene is filed within 15 days after the motion to intervene is filed, the movant becomes a party at the end of the 15 day period.
(2) If an answer in opposition to a timely motion to intervene is filed not later than 15 days after the motion to intervene is filed or, if the motion is not timely, the movant becomes a party only when the motion is expressly granted.
(d)
Grant of late intervention.
(1) In acting on any motion to intervene filed after the period prescribed under Rule 210, the decisional authority may consider whether:
(i) The movant had good cause for failing to file the motion within the time prescribed;
(ii) Any disruption of the proceeding might result from permitting intervention;
(iii) The movant's interest is not adequately represented by other parties in the proceeding;
(iv) Any prejudice to, or additional burdens upon, the existing parties might result from permitting the intervention; and
(v) The motion conforms to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Except as otherwise ordered, a grant of an untimely motion to intervene must not be a basis for delaying or deferring any procedural schedule established prior to the grant of that motion.
(3)(i) The decisional authority may impose limitations on the participation of a late intervener to avoid delay and prejudice to the other participants.
(ii) Except as otherwise ordered, a late intervener must accept the record of the proceeding as the record was developed prior to the late intervention.
(4) If the presiding officer orally grants a motion for late intervention, the officer will promptly issue a written order confirming the oral order.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982; 48 FR 786, Jan. 7, 1983, as amended by Order 376, 49 FR 21705, May 23, 1984; Order 2002, 68 FR 51142, Aug. 25, 2003; Order 718, 73 FR 62886, Oct. 22, 2008]
§ 385.215
Amendment of pleadings and tariff or rate filings (Rule 215).
(a)
General rules.
(1) Any participant, or any person who has filed a timely motion to intervene which has not been denied, may seek to modify its pleading by filing an amendment which conforms to the requirements applicable to the pleading to be amended.
(2) A tariff or rate filing may be amended or modified only as provided in the regulations under this chapter. A tariff or rate filing may not be amended, except as allowed by statute. The procedures provided in this section do not apply to amendment of tariff or rate filings.
(3)(i) If a written amendment is filed in a proceeding, or part of a proceeding, that is not set for hearing under subpart E, the amendment becomes effective as an amendment on the date filed.
(ii) If a written amendment is filed in a proceeding, or part of a proceeding, which is set for hearing under subpart E, that amendment is effective on the date filed only if the amendment is filed more than five days before the earlier of either the first prehearing conference or the first day of evidentiary hearings.
(iii) If, in a proceeding, or part of a proceeding, that is set for hearing under subpart E, a written amendment is filed after the time for filing provided under paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, or if an oral amendment is made to a presiding officer during a hearing or conference, the amendment becomes effective as an amendment only as provided under paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Answers.
Any participant, or any person who has filed a timely motion to intervene which has not been denied, may answer a written or oral amendment in accordance with Rule 213.
(c)
Motion opposing an amendment.
Any participant, or any person who has filed a timely motion to intervene which has not been denied, may file a motion opposing the acceptance of any amendment, other than an amendment under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, not later than 15 days after the filing of the amendment.
(d)
Acceptance of amendments.
(1) An amendment becomes effective as an amendment at the end of 15 days from the date of filing, if no motion in opposition to the acceptance of an amendment under paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section is filed within the 15 day period.
(2) If a motion in opposition to the acceptance of an amendment is filed within 15 days after the filing of the amendment, the amendment becomes effective as an amendment on the twentieth day after the filing of the amendment, except to the extent that the decisional authority, before such date, issues an order rejecting the amendment, wholly or in part, for good cause.
(e)
Directed amendments.
A decisional authority, on motion or otherwise, may direct any participant, or any person seeking to be a party, to file a written amendment to amplify, clarify, or technically correct a pleading.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 714, 73 FR 57538, Oct. 3, 2008]
§ 385.216
Withdrawal of pleadings (Rule 216).
(a)
Filing.
Any person that filed a pleading may seek to withdraw it by filing a notice of withdrawal. The procedures provided in this section do not apply to withdrawals of tariff or rate filings, which may be withdrawn only as provided in the regulations under this chapter.
(b)
Action on withdrawals.
(1) The withdrawal of any pleading is effective at the end of 15 days from the date of filing of a notice of withdrawal, if no motion in opposition to the notice of withdrawal is filed within that period and the decisional authority does not issue an order disallowing the withdrawal within that period. The decisional authority may disallow, for a good cause, all or part of a withdrawal.
(2) If a motion in opposition to a notice of withdrawal is filed within the 15 day period, the withdrawal is not effective until the decisional authority issues an order accepting the withdrawal.
(c)
Conditional withdrawal.
In order to prevent prejudice to other participants, a decisional authority may, on motion or otherwise, condition the withdrawal of any pleading upon a requirement that the withdrawing person leave material in the record or otherwise make material available to other participants.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 714, 73 FR 57538, Oct. 3, 2008; Order 846, 83 FR 23808, May 23, 2018]
§ 385.217
Summary disposition (Rule 217).
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to:
(1) Any proceeding, or any part of a proceeding, while the Commission is the decisional authority; and
(2) Any proceeding, or part of a proceeding, which is set for hearing under subpart E.
(b)
General rule.
If the decisional authority determines that there is no genuine issue of fact material to the decision of a proceeding or part of a proceeding, the decisional authority may summarily dispose of all or part of the proceeding.
(c)
Procedures.
(1) Any participant may make a motion for summary disposition of all or part of a proceeding.
(2) If a decisional authority, other than the Commission, is considering summary disposition of a proceeding,
or part of a proceeding, in the absence of a motion for summary disposition by a participant, the decisional authority will grant the participants an opportunity to comment on the proposed disposition prior to any summary disposition, unless, for good cause shown, the decisional authority provides otherwise.
(3) If, prior to setting a matter for hearing, the Commission is considering summary disposition of a proceeding or part of a proceeding in the absence of a motion for summary disposition by any participant and the Commission determines that notice and comment on summary disposition are practicable and necessary, the Commission may notify the participants and afford them an opportunity to comment on any proposed summary disposition.
(d)
Disposition.
(1)(i) If a decisional authority, other than the Commission, summarily disposes of an entire proceeding, the decisional authority will issue an initial decision for the entire proceeding.
(ii) Except as provided under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, a decisional authority, other than the Commission, which summarily disposes of part of a proceeding may:
(A) Issue a partial initial decision; or
(B) Postpone issuing an initial decision on the summarily disposed part and combine it with the initial decision on the entire proceeding or other appropriate part of the proceeding.
(iii) If the decisional authority, other than the Commission, summarily disposes of part of a proceeding and such disposition requires the filing of new tariff or rate schedule sheets or sections, the decisional authority will issue an initial decision on that part of the proceeding.
(2) Any initial decision issued under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is considered an initial decision issued under subpart G of this part, except that the following rules do not apply: Rule 704 (rights of participants before initial decision), Rule 705 (discretion of presiding officer before initial decision), Rule 706 (initial and reply briefs before initial decision), Rule 707 (oral argument before initial decision), and Rule 709 (other types of decisions).
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982; Order 225-A, 47 FR 35956, Aug. 18, 1982, as amended by Order 714, 73 FR 57538, Oct. 3, 2008]
§ 385.218
Simplified procedure for complaints involving small controversies (Rule 218).
(a)
Eligibility.
The procedures under this section are available to complainants if the amount in controversy is less than $100,000 and the impact on other entities is
de minimis.
(b)
Contents.
A complaint filed under this section must contain:
(1) The name of the complainant;
(2) The name of the respondent;
(3) A description of the relationship to the respondent;
(4) The amount in controversy;
(5) A statement why the complaint will have a
de minimis
impact on other entities;
(6) The facts and circumstances surrounding the complaint, including the legal or regulatory obligation breached by the respondent; and
(7) The requested relief.
(c)
Service.
The complainant is required to simultaneously serve the complaint on the respondent and any other entity referenced in the complaint.
(d)
Notice.
Public notice of the complaint will be issued by the Commission.
(e)
Answers, interventions and comments.
(1) An answer to a complaint is required to conform to the requirements of § 385.213(c)(1), (2), and (3).
(2) Answers, interventions and comments must be filed within 10 days after the complaint is filed. In cases where the complainant requests privileged treatment for information in its complaint, answers, interventions, and comments must be filed within 20 days after the complaint is filed. In the event there is an objection to the protective agreement, the Commission will establish when answers, interventions, and comments are due.
(f)
Privileged treatment.
If a complainant seeks privileged treatment for any documents submitted with the complaint, a complainant must use the procedures described in section
385.206(e). If a respondent seeks privileged treatment for any documents submitted with the answer, a respondent must use the procedures described in section 385.213(c)(5).
[Order 602, 64 FR 17099, Apr. 8, 1999]
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Discovery Procedures for Matters Set for Hearing Under Subpart E

# Source:
Order 466, 52 FR 6966, Mar. 6, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 385.401
Applicability (Rule 401).
(a)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this subpart applies to discovery in proceedings set for hearing under subpart E of this part, and to such other proceedings as the Commission may order.
(b)
Exceptions.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, this subpart does not apply to:
(1) Requests for information under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, governed by Part 388 of this chapter; or,
(2) Requests by the Commission or its staff who are not participants in a proceeding set for hearing under subpart E of this part to obtain information, reports, or data from persons subject to the Commission's regulatory jurisdiction; or
(3) Investigations conducted pursuant to Part 1b of this chapter.
§ 385.402
Scope of discovery (Rule 402).
(a)
General.
Unless otherwise provided under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section or ordered by the presiding officer under Rule 410(c), participants may obtain discovery of any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter of the pending proceeding, including the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any books, documents, or other tangible things, and the identity and location of persons having any knowledge of any discoverable matter. It is not ground for objection that the information sought will be inadmissible in the Commission proceeding if the information sought appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
(b)
Material prepared for litigation.
A participant may not obtain discovery of material prepared in anticipation of litigation by another participant, unless that participant demonstrates a substantial need for the material and that substantially equivalent material cannot be obtained by other means without undue hardship. In ordering any such discovery, the presiding officer will prevent disclosure of the mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories of an attorney.
(c)
Expert testimony.
Unless otherwise restricted by the presiding officer under Rule 410(c), a participant may discover any facts known or opinions held by an expert concerning any relevant matters, not privileged. Such discovery will be permitted only if:
(1) The expert is expected to be a witness at hearing; or
(2) The expert is relied on by another expert who is expected to be a witness at hearing, and the participant seeking discovery shows a compelling need for the information and it cannot practicably be obtained by other means.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 466-A, 52 FR 35909, Sept. 24, 1987]
§ 385.403
Methods of discovery; general provisions (Rule 403).
(a)
Discovery methods.
Participants may obtain discovery by data requests, written interrogatories, and requests for production of documents or things (Rule 406), depositions by oral examination (Rule 404), requests for inspection of documents and other property (Rule 407), and requests for admission (Rule 408).
(b)
Discovery conferences.
(1) The presiding officer may direct the participants in a proceeding or their representatives to appear for one or more conferences, either separately or as part of any other prehearing conference in the proceeding under Rule 601(a), for the purpose of scheduling discovery, identifying discovery issues, and resolving discovery disputes. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the presiding officer, upon the conclusion of a conference, will
issue an order stating any and all decisions made and agreements reached during the conference.
(2) The Chief Administrative Law Judge may, upon a showing of extraordinary circumstances, waive the requirement to issue an order under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Identification and certification of preparer.
Each response to discovery under this subpart must:
(1) Identify the preparer or person under whose direct supervision the response was prepared; and
(2) Be under oath or, for representatives of a public or private corporation or a partnership or association or a governmental agency, be accompanied by a signed certification of the preparer or person supervising the preparation of the response on behalf of the entity that the response is true and accurate to the best of that person's knowledge, information, and belief formed after a reasonable inquiry.
(d)
Supplementation of responses.
(1) Except as otherwise provided by this paragraph, a participant that has responded to a request for discovery with a response that was complete when made is not under a continuing duty to supplement that response to include information later acquired.
(2) A participant must make timely amendment to any prior response if the participant obtains information upon the basis of which the participant knows that the response was incorrect when made, or though correct when made is now incorrect in any material respect.
(3) A participant may be required to supplement a response by order of the presiding officer or by agreement of all participants.
(4) A participant may request supplementation of prior responses, if such request is permitted under the procedural schedule.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 466-A, 52 FR 35909, Sept. 24, 1987]
§ 385.404
Depositions during proceedings (Rule 404).
(a)
In general.
(1) A participant may obtain the attendance for a deposition by oral examination of any other participant, an employee or agent of that participant, or a person retained by that participant as a potential witness, by providing a notice of intent to depose.
(2) Any participant may obtain the attendance of a nonparticipant for a deposition by oral examination by obtaining a subpoena, in accordance with Rule 409. For purposes of this rule, a Commission decisional employee, as defined in Rule 2201(a), is a nonparticipant.
(b)
Notice.
(1) A participant seeking to take a deposition under this section must provide to all other participants written notice reasonably in advance of the deposition. The notice must be filed with the Commission and served on all participants. An original must be served on each person whose deposition is sought.
(2) A notice of intent under this section must:
(i) State the time and place at which the deposition will be taken, the name and address of each person to be examined, and the subject matter of the deposition; and
(ii) If known at the time that the deposition is noticed that its purpose is to preserve testimony, state that the deponent will be unable to testify at the hearing.
(3)(i) A notice of intent under this section or a subpoena under Rule 409 may name as the deponent a public or private corporation or a partnership or association or a governmental agency, and describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. Such organization must, in response, designate one or more officers, directors, or managing agents, or other persons to testify on its behalf, and set forth, for each person designated, the matters on which that person will testify.
(ii) A subpoena must advise any organization that is named as a deponent but is not a participant that it has a duty to designate a person to testify. Any person designated under this section must testify on matters known by, or reasonably available to, the organization.
(c)
Taking of deposition.
(1) Each deponent must swear to or affirm the truth of the testimony given before any testimony is taken.
(2) Any participant may examine and cross-examine a deponent.
(3) Any objection made during the examination must be noted by the officer taking the deposition. After the objection is noted, the deponent must answer the question, unless a claim of privilege is asserted or the presiding officer rules otherwise.
(4) The deposition must be transcribed verbatim.
(d)
Nonstenographic means of recording; telephonic depositions.
Testimony at a deposition may be recorded by means other than stenography if all participants so stipulate or if the presiding officer, upon motion, so orders. Such stipulation or order shall designate the person before whom the deposition. will be taken, and the manner in which the deposition will be preserved, filed, and certified. Depositions may also be taken by telephone, if all participants so stipulate or the presiding officer, upon motion, orders.
(e)
Officer taking deposition.
Depositions must be taken before an officer authorized to administer oaths or affirmations by the laws of the United States or of the place where the deposition is held. A deposition may not be taken before an officer who is a relative or employee or attorney of any of the participants, or is financially or in any other way interested in the action.
(f)
Submission to deponent.
(1) Unless examination is waived by the deponent, the transcription of the deposition must be submitted to the deponent for examination.
(2) If the deponent requests any changes in form or substance, the officer must enter the changes on the deposition transcript with a statement of the witness' reasons for the changes. The deponent must sign the deposition within 30 days after submittal to the deponent, unless the participants by stipulation waive the signing or the deponent cannot or will not sign. By signing the deposition the deponent certifies that the transcript is a true record of the testimony given.
(3) The officer who took the deposition must sign any deposition not signed by the deponent in accordance with this section and must state on the record that the signature is waived or that the deponent cannot or will not sign, accompanied by any reason given for a deponent's refusal to sign. If the officer complies with this paragraph, a deposition that is unsigned by the deponent may be used as though signed, unless the presiding officer rules otherwise.
(g)
Certification and copies.
(1) The officer must certify on the transcript of the deposition that the deponent swore to or affirmed the truth of the testimony given and the deposition transcript is a true record of the testimony given by the deponent. The officer must provide the participant conducting the deposition with a copy of the transcription.
(2) Documents and things produced for inspection during the examination of the witness will, upon the request of a participant, be marked for identification and annexed to the deposition and the officer will certify the document or thing as the original offered during the deposition, or as a true and correct copy of the original offered.
(3) Copies of the transcript of a deposition may be purchased from the reporting service that made the transcription, subject to protections established by the presiding officer.
§ 385.405
Use of depositions (Rule 405).
(a)
In general.
During a hearing, the hearing of a motion, or an interlocutory proceeding under Rule 715, any part or all of a deposition taken pursuant to Rule 404, so far as admissible as though the witness were then present and testifying, may be used against any participant who was present or represented at the taking of the deposition or who had reasonable notice thereof, in accordance with any of the provisions of this section.
(1) If the deponent is a witness at a hearing, any participant may use the deposition of that witness at the time of the witness' examination to contradict, impeach, or complete the testimony of that witness.
(2) The deposition of a participant or of any person who, at the time of taking the deposition, was an officer, director, or managing agent of a participant, or a person designated under Rule 404(b)(3) to testify on behalf of a participant may be used by another participant for any purpose.
(3) The deposition of any witness, whether or not a participant, may be used by a participant for any purpose, if the presiding officer finds that:
(i) The witness is dead;
(ii) The witness is unable to attend or testify because of age, illness, infirmity or imprisonment;
(iii) The participant offering the deposition is unable after the exercise of due diligence to procure the attendance of the witness by subpoena; or
(iv) Exceptional circumstances make it necessary in the interest of fairness with due regard to the importance of presenting the witness in open hearing, to allow use of the deposition.
(4) If only part of a deposition is offered in evidence by a participant, a participant may require the introduction of any other part which ought, in fairness, to be considered with the part introduced, and any adverse participant may introduce any other part.
(b)
Objections to admissibility.
No part of a deposition will constitute a part of the record in the proceeding, unless received in evidence by the Commission or presiding officer. Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, a participant may object to receiving into evidence all or part of any deposition for any reason that the evidence would be excluded if the deponent were present and testifying.
(c)
Effect of errors and irregularities in depositions.
(1) Any objection to the taking of a deposition based on errors or irregularities in notice of the deposition is waived, unless written objection is promptly served on the participant giving the notice.
(2) Any objection to the taking of a deposition based on the disqualification of the officer before whom it is to be taken is waived, unless the objection is made before the deposition begins or as soon thereafter as the disqualification becomes known or could be discovered with reasonable diligence.
(3) Any objection to the competency of the witness or the competency, relevancy, or materiality of testimony is not waived by failure to make the objection before or during the taking of the deposition, unless the basis for the objection might have been removed if the objection had been presented at the taking of the deposition.
(4) Any objection to errors and irregularities occurring at the oral examination in the manner of taking the deposition, in the form of the questions and answers, in the oath or affirmation, or in the conduct of participants, and errors of any kind that might be obviated, removed or cured if presented at the deposition, is waived unless objection is made at the taking of the deposition.
(5) Any objection based on errors or irregularities in the manner in which the testimony is transcribed or the deposition is prepared, signed, certified, endorsed, or otherwise dealt with by the officer is waived, unless the objection is made with reasonable promptness after the defect is, or with due diligence should have been, ascertained.
§ 385.406
Data requests, interrogatories, and requests for production of documents or things (Rule 406).
(a)
Availability.
Any participant may serve upon any other participant a written request to supply information, such as responses to data requests and interrogatories, or copies of documents.
(b)
Procedures.
(1) A request under this section must identify with specificity the information or material sought and will specify a reasonable time within which the matter sought must be furnished.
(2) Unless provided otherwise by the presiding officer, copies of any discovery request must be served upon the presiding officer and on all participants to the proceeding.
(3) Each discovery request must be answered separately and fully in writing.
(4) Responses to discovery requests are required to be served only on the participant requesting the information, Commission trial staff, and any other participant that specifically requests service. The presiding officer may direct that a copy of any responses be furnished to the presiding officer. Responses must be served within the time limit specified in the request or otherwise provided by the presiding officer.
(5) If the matter sought is not furnished, the responding participant must provide, in accordance with Rule 410, written explanation of the specific grounds for the failure to furnish it.
§ 385.407
Inspection of documents and other property (Rule 407).
(a)
Availability.
On request, the presiding officer may order any other participant to:
(1) Permit inspection and copying of any designated documents (including writings, drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, sound recordings, computer tapes or other compilations of data from which information can be obtained) that are not privileged and that are in the possession, custody, or control of the participant to whom the order is directed;
(2) Permit inspection, copying or photographing, testing, or sampling of any tangible thing that is not privileged and that is in the possession, custody, or control of the participant to whom the order is directed; and
(3) Permit entry upon or into designated land, buildings, or other property in the possession, custody, or control of the participant to whom the order is directed for the purpose of inspecting, measuring, surveying, or photographing the property or any activity or operation that is not privileged and that is conducted in or upon the property.
(b)
Procedures.
A request for inspection of documents or property under this section must describe with reasonable particularity the documents or other property to which access is sought. The request must also specify a reasonable time, place, and manner of making the inspection.
§ 385.408
Admissions (Rule 408).
(a)
General rule.
A participant may serve upon any other participant a written request for admission of the genuineness of any document or the truth of any matter of fact. The request must be served upon all participants.
(b)
Procedures.
(1) Any request for admission of the genuineness of a document must be accompanied by a legible copy of the document, unless it was previously furnished, is in the possession of the recipient of the request, or is readily available for inspection and copying.
(2) The truth of specified matters of fact or the genuineness of the documents described in a request are deemed admitted unless, within 20 days after service of the request or any longer period designated in the request, the participant that receives the request serves upon the requesting participant a written answer or objection addressed to the matters in the request.
(3) An answer must specifically admit or deny the truth of the matters in the request or set forth in detail the reasons why the answering participant cannot admit or deny the truth of each matter. A denial of the truthfulness of the requested admission must fairly discuss the substance of the requested admission and, when good faith requires that a participant qualify the answer or deny only a part of the matter of which an admission is requested, the participant must specify that which is true and qualify or deny the remainder. The answer must be served on all participants.
(c)
Effect of admission.
Any admission made by a participant under this section is for the purpose of the pending proceeding only, is not an admission for any other purpose, and may not be used against the participant in any other proceeding. Any matter admitted under this rule is conclusively established unless the presiding officer, on motion, permits withdrawal or amendment of the admission. The presiding officer may permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission, if the presiding officer finds that the presentation of the merits of the proceeding will be promoted and the participant who obtained the admission has failed to satisfy the presiding officer that withdrawal or amendment of the admission will prejudice that participant in maintaining his position in the proceeding.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 466-A, 52 FR 35909, Sept. 24, 1987]
§ 385.409
Subpoenas (Rule 409).
(a)
Issuance.
On request, the presiding officer may issue a subpoena for the attendance of a witness at a deposition or hearing or for the production of documents. A request for a subpoena must be served on all participants.
(b)
Service and return.
A subpoena issued under this section must be served by personal service, substituted service, registered mail, or certified mail. A subpoena may be served by the marshal, by his deputy, or by any other person who is not a party or an employee of a party and is at least 18 years of age. If personal service is made by any person other than a United States marshal or deputy marshal, return of service must be accompanied by an affidavit to the Secretary or the presiding officer and must state the time and manner of service of the subpoena.
(c)
Fees.
Fees paid to subpoenaed persons will be in accordance with Rule 510(e).
(d)
Objections.
Objections to subpoenas must be made in accordance with Rule 410.
§ 385.410
Objections to discovery, motions to quash or to compel, and protective orders (Rule 410).
(a)
Objection to discovery
—(1)
Notice of objections or motion to quash.
A participant, or a recipient of a subpoena, who does not intend to comply with a discovery request must notify in writing the participant seeking discovery within a reasonable time in advance of the date on which a response or other action in conformance with the discovery request is due. A recipient of a subpoena may either provide a notice of objection or file a motion to quash.
(2)
Objections to production of documents.
(i) Unless an objection to discovery under this section is based on the ground that production would impose an undue burden, the objecting participant must provide the participant seeking discovery with a schedule of items withheld and a statement of:
(A) The character and specific subject matter of each item; and
(B) The specific objection asserted for each item.
(ii) If an objection under this section is based on the ground that production of the requested material would impose an undue burden, the objecting participant must provide the participant seeking discovery with a description of the approximate number of documents that would have to be produced and a summary of the information contained in such documents.
(3)
Objections to other discovery requests.
If the discovery to which objection is made is not a request for documents, the objection must clearly state the grounds on which the participant bases its objection.
(4)
Objections to compile or process information.
The fact that information has not been compiled or processed in the form requested is not a basis for objection unless the objection presents grounds for limiting discovery under paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Motions to compel.
Any participant seeking discovery may file a motion to compel discovery, if:
(1) A participant to whom a data request is made or upon whom an interrogatory is served under Rule 406 fails or refuses to make a full, complete, and accurate response;
(2) A person named in a notice of intent to take a deposition or a subpoena fails or refuses to appear for the deposition;
(3) An organization named in a notice of intent to take a deposition fails or refuses to designate one or more persons to testify on its behalf under Rule 404(b)(3);
(4) A deponent fails or refuses to answer fully, completely, and accurately a question propounded or to sign the transcript of the testimony as required by Rule 404(f)(2);
(5) A participant upon whom a request for admissions is served fails or refuses to respond to the request in accordance with Rule 408(b); or
(6) A participant upon whom an order to produce or to permit inspection or entry is served under Rule 407 fails or refuses to comply with that order.
(c)
Orders limiting discovery.
A presiding officer may, by order, deny or limit discovery or restrict public disclosure of discoverable matter in order to:
(1) Protect a participant or other person from undue annoyance, burden, harassment or oppression;
(2) Prevent undue delay in the proceeding;
(3) Preserve a privilege of a participant, person, or governmental agency;
(4) Prevent a participant from requiring another participant to provide information which is readily available to the requesting participant from other sources with a reasonable expenditure of effort given the requesting participant's position and resources;
(5) Prevent unreasonably cumulative or duplicative discovery requests; or
(6) Provide a means by which confidential matters may be made available to participants so as to prevent public disclosure. Material submitted under a protective order may nevertheless be subject to Freedom of Information Act requests and review.
(d)
Privilege
—(1)
In general.
(i) In the absence of controlling Commission precedent, privileges will be determined in accordance with decisions of the Federal courts with due consideration to the Commission's need to obtain information necessary to discharge its regulatory responsibilities.
(ii) A presiding officer may not quash a subpoena or otherwise deny or limit discovery on the ground of privilege unless the presiding officer expressly finds that the privilege claimed is applicable. If a presiding officer finds that a qualified privilege has been established, the participant seeking discovery must make a showing sufficient to warrant discovery despite the qualified privilege.
(iii) A presiding officer may issue a protective order under Rule 410(c) to deny or limit discovery in order to preserve a privilege of a participant, person, or governmental agency.
(2)
Of the Commission.
(i) If discovery under this subpart would require the production of Commission information, documents, or other matter that might fall within a privilege, the Commission trial staff must identify in writing the applicable privilege along with the matters claimed to be privileged or the individuals from whom privileged information is sought, to the presiding officer and the parties.
(ii) If the presiding officer determines that the privilege claimed for the Commission is applicable, the Commission information, documents, or other matter may not be produced. If the presiding officer determines that no privilege is applicable, that a privilege is waived, or that a qualified privilege is overcome, the presiding officer will certify the matter to the Commission in accordance with Rule 714. Certification to the Commission under this paragraph must describe the material to be disclosed and the reasons which, in the presiding officer's view, justify disclosure. The information will not be disclosed unless the Commission affirmatively orders the material disclosed.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 466-A, 52 FR 35910, Sept. 24, 1987]
§ 385.411
Sanctions (Rule 411).
(a)
Disobedience of order compelling discovery.
If a participant or any other person fails to obey an order compelling discovery, the presiding officer may, after notice to the participant or person and an opportunity to be heard, take one or more of the following actions, but may not dismiss or otherwise terminate the proceeding:
(1) Certify the matter to the Commission with a recommendation for dismissal or termination of the proceeding, termination of that participant's right to participate in the proceeding, institution of civil action, or any other sanction available to the Commission by law;
(2) Order that the matters to which the order compelling discovery relates are taken as established for the purposes of the proceeding in accordance with the position of the participant obtaining the order;
(3) Order that a participant be precluded from supporting or opposing such positions or introducing such matters in evidence as the presiding officer designates;
(4) Order that all or part of any pleading by a participant be struck or that the proceeding or a phase of the proceeding be stayed until the order compelling discovery is obeyed; and
(5) Recommend to the Commission that it take action under Rule 2102 against a representative of the participant if the presiding officer believes that the representative has engaged in
unethical or improper professional conduct.
(b)
Against representative of a participant.
If the person disobeying an order compelling discovery is an agent, officer, employee, attorney, partner, or director of a participant, the presiding officer may take any of the actions described in paragraph (a) against that participant.

# Subpart E—Hearings
§ 385.501
Applicability (Rule 501).
This subpart applies to any proceeding, or part of a proceeding, that the Commission or the Secretary under delegated authority sets for a hearing to be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
[Order 492, 53 FR 16067, May 5, 1988]
§ 385.502
Initiation of hearing (Rule 502).
(a)
Notice or order initiating hearing.
A hearing under this subpart will be initiated by:
(1) Order of the Commission; or
(2) Notice by the Secretary at the direction of the Commission or under delegated authority.
(b)
Contents of notice or order initiating hearing.
Any order or notice under paragraph (a) of this section will set forth:
(1) The authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(2) The nature of the proceeding;
(3) The final date for the filing of interventions, if the dates were not fixed by an earlier notice;
(4) The presiding officer, if designated at that time; and
(5) The date, time, and location of the hearing or prehearing conference, if known; and
(6) Any other appropriate matter.
(c)
Consolidation, severance, and phasing.
Any notice or order under this section may direct consolidation of proceedings, phasing of a proceeding, or severance of proceedings or issues in a proceeding.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended at Order 492, 53 FR 16067, May 5, 1988; Order 606, 64 FR 44405, Aug. 16, 1999]
§ 385.503
Consolidation, severance and extension of close-of-record date by Chief Administrative Law Judge (Rule 503).
(a) The Chief Administrative Law Judge may, on motion or otherwise, order proceedings pending under this subpart consolidated for hearing on, or settlement of, any or all matters in issue in the proceedings, or order the severance of proceedings or issues in a proceeding. The order may be appealed to the Commission pursuant to Rule 715.
(b) If the Commission orders that the presiding officer close the record in any proceeding by a specific date, the Chief Administrative Law Judge may, upon motion or otherwise, extend the close-of-record date for good cause. This staff action may be appealed to the Commission only under Rule 1902.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 376, 49 FR 21705, May 23, 1984; Order 437, 50 FR 48183, Nov. 22, 1985; Order 578, 60 FR 19505, Apr. 19, 1995]
§ 385.504
Duties and powers of presiding officers (Rule 504).
(a)
Duties.
(1) It shall be the duty of the presiding officer to conduct a fair and impartial hearing and to determine the matter justly under the law.
(2) The presiding officer will cause all appearances during a hearing to be entered on the record with a notation in whose behalf each appearance is made.
(3) The presiding officer will establish the order of presentation of the cases of all participants in the hearing.
(4) The presiding officer will assure that the taking of evidence and subsequent matters proceed with all reasonable diligence and with the least delay practicable.
(5) The presiding officer will prepare and certify an initial decision or a revised initial decision, whichever is appropriate, to the Commission as provided in Subpart G of this part.
(b)
Powers.
Except as otherwise ordered by the Commission or provided by law, the presiding officer may:
(1) Schedule and otherwise regulate the course of the hearing;
(2) Recess, reconvene, postpone, or adjourn the hearing;
(3) Administer oaths;
(4) Rule on and receive evidence;
(5) Cause Discovery to be conducted;
(6) Exercise powers granted a presiding officer under Subpart D;
(7) Hold conferences of the participants, as provided in Subpart F of this part, including for the purpose of considering the use of alternative dispute resolution procedures;
(8) Rule on, and dispose of, procedural matters, including oral or written motions;
(9) Summarily dispose of a proceeding or part of a proceeding, as provided in Rule 217;
(10) Certify a question to the Commission, as provided in Rule 714;
(11) Permit or deny appeal of an interlocutory ruling, as provided in Rule 715;
(12) Rule on motions to intervene, as provided in Rule 214;
(13) Separate any issue or group of issues from other issues in a proceeding and treat such issue or group of issues as a separate phase of the proceeding;
(14) Maintain order, as follows:
(i) Ensure that any disregard by any person of rulings on matters of order and procedure is noted on the record or, if appropriate, is made the subject of a special written report to the Commission;
(ii) In the event any person engages in disrespectful, disorderly, or contumacious language or conduct in connection with the hearing, recess the hearing for such time as necessary to regain order;
(iii) Request that the Commission take appropriate action, including removal from the proceeding, against a participant or counsel, if necessary to maintain order.
(15) Modify any time period, if such modification is in the interest of justice and will result in no undue prejudice to any participant;
(16) Limit the number of expert witnesses who may testify on any issue, consistent with the rule against repetitious testimony in Rule 509(a);
(17) Limit the number of persons, other than staff, representing a similar interest who may examine witnesses or make or argue motions or objections;
(18) Require; or authorize the admission of, further evidence upon any issue at any time before the close of the evidentiary record;
(19) Rule on motions for reconsideration of an initial decision as provided in Rule 717;
(20) Take any other action necessary or appropriate to the discharge of the duties of a presiding officer, consistent with applicable law and policy.
(c)
Disqualification.
(1) A presiding officer may withdraw from a proceeding, if that officer believes himself or herself disqualified.
(2) The Commission may, for good cause, order the removal of any presiding officer from a proceeding, on motion filed with the Commission or otherwise.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982; 48 FR 786, Jan. 7, 1983, as amended by Order 375, 49 FR 21315, May 21, 1984; Order 466, 52 FR 6970, Mar. 6, 1987; Order 578, 60 FR 19505, Apr. 19, 1995]
§ 385.505
Right of participants to present evidence (Rule 505).
Consistent with the provisions of this part, a participant has the right to present such evidence, including rebuttal evidence, to make such objections and arguments, and to conduct such cross-examination, as may be necessary to assure true and full disclosure of the facts.
§ 385.506
Examination of witnesses during hearing (Rule 506).
(a)
Prepared written direct and rebuttal testimony.
Unless the presiding officer orders such testimony to be presented orally, direct and rebuttal testimony of a witness in a hearing must be prepared and submitted in written form, as required by Rule 507. Any witness submitting written testimony must be available for cross-examination, as provided in this subpart.
(b)
Oral testimony during hearing.
Oral examination of a witness in a hearing must be conducted under oath and in the presence of the presiding officer, with opportunity for all participants to question the witness to the extent consistent with Rules 504(b)(17), 505, and 509(a).
§ 385.507
Prepared written testimony (Rule 507).
(a)
Offered as an exhibit.
The prepared written testimony of any witness must be offered as an exhibit. The presiding officer will allow a reasonable period of
time for the preparation of such written testimony.
(b)
Time for filing.
Any prepared written testimony must be filed and served within the time provided by the presiding officer, in no case later than 10 days before the session of the hearing at which such exhibit is offered, unless a shorter period is permitted under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Late-filed testimony.
(1) If all participants in attendance at the hearing agree, the 10-day requirement for filing any written testimony under paragraph (b) of this section is waived.
(2) The presiding officer may permit the introduction of any prepared written testimony without compliance with paragraph (b) of this section, if the presiding officer determines that the introduction of the testimony:
(i) Is necessary for a full disclosure of the facts or is warranted by any other showing of good cause; and
(ii) Would not be unduly prejudicial to any participant.
(3) If any written testimony is served and filed within the 10 day period provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the presiding officer will provide the participants in attendance with a reasonable opportunity to inspect the testimony.
(d)
Form; authentication.
Prepared written testimony must have line numbers inserted in the left-hand margin of each page and must be authenticated by an affidavit of the witness.
§ 385.508
Exhibits (Rule 508).
(a)
General rules.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, any material offered in evidence, other than oral testimony, must be offered in the form of an exhibit.
(2) The presiding officer will cause each exhibit offered by a participant to be marked for identification.
(b)
Designation and treatment of matter sought to be admitted.
(1) If a document offered as an exhibit contains material not offered as evidence, the participant offering the exhibit must:
(i) Plainly designate the matter offered as evidence; and
(ii) Segregate and exclude the material not offered in evidence, to the extent practicable.
(2) If, in a document offered as an exhibit, material not offered in evidence is so extensive as to unnecessarily encumber the record, the material offered in evidence will be marked for identification. The remainder of the document will be considered not to have been offered in evidence.
(3) Copies of any document offered as an exhibit under paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be delivered to the other participants appearing at the hearing by the participant offering the exhibit in evidence. The participants will be offered an opportunity to inspect the entire document and to offer as an exhibit in evidence, in like manner, any other portions of the document.
(c)
Public document items by reference.
If all or part of a public document is offered in evidence and the participant offering the document shows that all or the pertinent part of the document, is reasonably available to the public, the document need not be produced or marked for identification but may be offered in evidence as a public document by identifying all or the relevant part of the document to be offered.
(d)
Official notice of facts.
(1) A presiding officer may take official notice of any matter that may be judicially noticed by the courts of the United States, or of any matter about which the Commission, by reason of its functions, is expert.
(2) The presiding officer must afford any participant, making a timely request, an opportunity to show the contrary of an officially noticed fact.
(3) Any participant requesting official notice of facts after the conclusion of the hearing must set forth reasons to justify the failure to request official notice prior to the close of the hearing.
(e)
Stipulations.
(1) Participants in a proceeding may stipulate to any relevant matters of fact or the authenticity of any relevant documents.
(2) A stipulation may be received in evidence at the hearing and, if received in evidence, the stipulation is binding on the stipulating participants with respect to any matter stipulated.
(3) A stipulation may be written or made orally at the hearing.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 811, 80 FR 36236, June 24, 2015]
§ 385.509
Admissibility of evidence (Rule 509).
(a)
General standard.
The presiding officer should exclude from evidence any irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious material. The presiding officer may also exclude from evidence any other material which the presiding officer determines is not of the kind which would affect reasonable and fair-minded persons in the conduct of their daily affairs.
(b)
Ruling on evidence.
(1) The presiding officer will rule on the admissibility of any evidence offered.
(2) If any participant objects to the admission or exclusion of evidence, the participant must state briefly the grounds for the objection.
(3) The presiding officer will not permit formal exceptions to any ruling on evidence. This prohibition against formal exceptions does not preclude a participant from raising, as an issue, the validity of any ruling on evidence later in the proceeding, consistent with Rule 711.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 225-A, 47 FR 35956, Aug. 18, 1982]
§ 385.510
Miscellaneous provisions (Rule 510).
(a)
Transcript.
(1) Any statement made at a hearing session will be transcribed in a verbatim report, with nothing omitted except as directed by the presiding officer on the record. A statement at a hearing may not occur off-the-record, except as otherwise directed by the presiding officer.
(2) After the closing of a record, changes in the transcript are not permitted, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Transcript corrections.
(1) Any correction in the transcript of a hearing may be made only if the correction conforms the transcript to the evidence presented at the hearing and to the truth.
(2) A transcript correction may be incorporated in the record, in accordance with a ruling of the presiding officer, if:
(i) Agreed to by all participants and approved by the presiding officer; or
(ii) The presiding officer requests submittal of transcript corrections and rules on the corrections submitted.
(3) Transcript corrections may be made at any time during the hearing or after the close of evidence, as the presiding officer determines appropriate, but only if the correction is made not less than 10 days before the time for filing final briefs.
(c)
Close of evidentiary record.
The presiding officer will designate the time at which the evidentiary record is closed. Evidence may not be added to the evidentiary record after the record is closed, unless the record is reopened under Rule 716.
(d)
Copies of exhibits and motions to participants.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, copies of exhibits and motions will be provided at the hearing to any participants who have not been provided copies.
(e)
Fees of subpoenaed witnesses.
(1) Any witnesses subpoenaed by the Commission must be paid the same fees and mileage provided for similar services in the district courts of the United States.
(2) Any fees and mileage paid to a subpoenaed witness under paragraph (e)(1) of this section will be paid by the Commission, unless the witness is subpoenaed at the instance of a party.
(3) If the witness is subpoenaed at the instance of a party, any fees and mileage paid to the witness under paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be paid by the party. The Commission, before issuing any subpoena at the instance of the party, may require the party to deposit an amount adequate to cover the witness probable fees and mileage under paragraph (e)(1) of this section. The deposit will be refunded when the party pays the witness in full.
(f)
Offers of proof.
(1) Any offer of proof made in connection with a ruling of the presiding officer rejecting or excluding proffered oral testimony must consist of a statement of the substance of the evidence which the participant claims would be adduced by the testimony.
(2) If any excluded evidence is in the form of an exhibit or is a public document, a copy of such exhibit will constitute the offer of proof or the public document will be specified for identification.

# Subpart F—Conferences, Settlements, and Stipulations
§ 385.601
Conferences (Rule 601).
(a)
Convening.
The Commission or other decisional authority, upon motion or otherwise, may convene a conference of the participants in a proceeding at any time for any purpose related to the conduct or disposition of the proceeding, including submission and consideration of offers of settlement or the use of alternative dispute resolution procedures.
(b)
General requirements.
(1) The participants in a proceeding must be given due notice of the time and place of a conference under paragraph (a) of this section and of the matters to be addressed at the conference. Participants attending the conference must be prepared to discuss the matters to be addressed at the conference, unless there is good cause for a failure to be prepared.
(2) Any person appearing at the conference in a representative capacity must be authorized to act on behalf of that person's principal with respect to matters to be addressed at the conference.
(3) If any party fails to attend the conference such failure will constitute a waiver of all objections to any order or ruling arising out of, or any agreement reached at, the conference.
(c)
Powers of decisional authority at conference.
(1) The decisional authority, before which the conference is held or to which the conference reports, may dispose, during a conference, of any procedural matter on which the decisional authority is authorized to rule and which may appropriately and usefully be disposed of at that time.
(2) If, in a proceeding set for hearing under subpart E, the presiding officer determines that the proceeding would be substantially expedited by distribution of proposed exhibits, including written prepared testimony and other documents, reasonably in advance of the hearing session, the presiding officer may, with due regard for the convenience of the participants, direct advance distribution of the exhibits by a prescribed date. The presiding officer may also direct the preparation and distribution of any briefs and other documents which the presiding officer determines will substantially expedite the proceeding.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 578, 60 FR 19505, Apr. 19, 1995]
§ 385.602
Submission of settlement offers (Rule 602).
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to written offers of settlement filed in any proceeding pending before the Commission or set for hearing under subpart E. For purposes of this section, the term “offer of settlement” includes any written proposal to modify an offer of settlement.
(b)
Submission of offer.
(1) Any participant in a proceeding may submit an offer of settlement at any time.
(2) An offer of settlement must be filed with the Secretary. The Secretary will transmit the offer to:
(i) The presiding officer, if the offer is filed after a hearing has been ordered under subpart E of this part and before the presiding officer certifies the record to the Commission; or
(ii) The Commission.
(3) If an offer of settlement pertains to multiple proceedings that are in part pending before the Commission and in part set for hearing, any participant may by motion request the Commission to consolidate the multiple proceedings and to provide any other appropriate procedural relief for purposes of disposition of the settlement.
(c)
Contents of offer.
(1) An offer of settlement must include:
(i) The settlement offer;
(ii) A separate explanatory statement;
(iii) Copies of, or references to, any document, testimony, or exhibit, including record citations if there is a record, and any other matters that the offerer considers relevant to the offer of settlement; and
(2) If an offer of settlement pertains to a tariff or rate filing, the offer must include any proposed change in a form
suitable for inclusion in the filed rate schedules or tariffs, and a number of copies sufficient to satisfy the filing requirements applicable to tariff or rate filings of the type at issue in the proceeding.
(d)
Service.
(1) A participant offering settlement under this section must serve a copy of the offer of settlement:
(i) On every participant in accordance with Rule 2010;
(ii) On any person required by the Commission's rules to be served with the pleading or tariff or rate schedule filing, with respect to which the proceeding was initiated.
(2) The participant serving the offer of settlement must notify any person or participant served under paragraph (d)(1) of this section of the date on which comments on the settlement are due under paragraph (f) of this section.
(e)
Use of non-approved offers of settlement as evidence.
(1) An offer of settlement that is not approved by the Commission, and any comment on that offer, is not admissible in evidence against any participant who objects to its admission.
(2) Any discussion of the parties with respect to an offer of settlement that is not approved by the Commission is not subject to discovery or admissible in evidence.
(f)
Comments.
(1) A comment on an offer of settlement must be filed with the Secretary who will transmit the comment to the Commission, if the offer of settlement was transmitted to the Commission, or to the presiding officer in any other case.
(2) A comment on an offer of settlement may be filed not later than 20 days after the filing of the offer of settlement and reply comments may be filed not later than 30 days after the filing of the offer, unless otherwise provided by the Commission or the presiding officer.
(3) Any failure to file a comment constitutes a waiver of all objections to the offer of settlement.
(4) Any comment that contests an offer of settlement by alleging a dispute as to a genuine issue of material fact must include an affidavit detailing any genuine issue of material fact by specific reference to documents, testimony, or other items included in the offer of settlement, or items not included in the settlement, that are relevant to support the claim. Reply comments may include responding affidavits.
(g)
Uncontested offers of settlement.
(1) If comments on an offer are transmitted to the presiding officer and the presiding officer finds that the offer is not contested by any participant, the presiding officer will certify to the Commission the offer of settlement, a statement that the offer of settlement is uncontested, and any hearing record or pleadings which relate to the offer of settlement.
(2) If comments on an offer of settlement are transmitted to the Commission, the Commission will determine whether the offer is uncontested.
(3) An uncontested offer of settlement may be approved by the Commission upon a finding that the settlement appears to be fair and reasonable and in the public interest.
(h)
Contested offers of settlement.
(1)(i) If the Commission determines that any offer of settlement is contested in whole or in part, by any party, the Commission may decide the merits of the contested settlement issues, if the record contains substantial evidence upon which to base a reasoned decision or the Commission determines there is no genuine issue of material fact.
(ii) If the Commission finds that the record lacks substantial evidence or that the contesting parties or contested issues can not be severed from the offer of settlement, the Commission will:
(A) Establish procedures for the purpose of receiving additional evidence before a presiding officer upon which a decision on the contested issues may reasonably be based; or
(B) Take other action which the Commission determines to be appropriate.
(iii) If contesting parties or contested issues are severable, the contesting parties or uncontested portions may be severed. The uncontested portions will be decided in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
(2)(i) If any comment on an offer of settlement is transmitted to the presiding officer and the presiding officer determines that the offer is contested,
whole or in part, by any participant, the presiding officer may certify all or part of the offer to the Commission. If any offer or part of an offer is contested by a party, the offer may be certified to the Commission only if paragraph (h)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section applies.
(ii) Any offer of settlement or part of any offer may be certified to the Commission if the presiding officer determines that there is no genuine issue of material fact. Any certification by the presiding officer must contain the determination that there is no genuine issue of material fact and any hearing record or pleadings which relate to the offer or part of the offer being certified.
(iii) Any offer of settlement or part of any offer may be certified to the Commission, if:
(A) The parties concur on a motion for omission of the initial decision as provided in Rule 710, or, if all parties do not concur in the motion, the presiding officer determines that omission of the initial decision is appropriate under Rule 710(d), and
(B) The presiding officer determines that the record contains substantial evidence from which the Commission may reach a reasoned decision on the merits of the contested issues.
(iv) If any contesting parties or contested issues are severable, the uncontested portions of the settlement may be certified immediately by the presiding officer to the Commission for decision, as provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
(i)
Reservation of rights.
Any procedural right that a participant has in the absence of an offer of settlement is not affected by Commission disapproval, or approval subject to condition, of the uncontested portion of the offer of settlement.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 541, 57 FR 21734, May 22, 1992; Order 578, 60 FR 19505, Apr. 19, 1995]
§ 385.603
Settlement of negotiations before a settlement judge (Rule 603).
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to any proceeding set for hearing under subpart E of this part and to any other proceeding in which the Commission has ordered the appointment of a settlement judge.
(b)
Definition.
For purposes of this section,
settlement judge
means the administrative law judge appointed by the Chief Administrative Law Judge to conduct settlement negotiations under this section.
(c)
Requests for appointment of settlement judges.
(1) Any participant may file a motion requesting the appointment of a settlement judge with the presiding officer, or, if there is no presiding officer for the proceeding, with the Commission.
(2) A presiding officer may request the Chief Administrative Law Judge to appoint a settlement judge.
(3) A motion under paragraph (c)(1) of this section may be acted upon at any time, and the time limitations on answers in Rule 213(d) do not apply.
(4) Any answer or objection filed after a motion has been acted upon will not be considered.
(d)
Commission order directing appointment of settlement judge.
The Commission may, on motion or otherwise, order the Chief Administrative Law Judge to appoint a settlement judge.
(e)
Appointment of settlement judge by Chief Administrative Law Judge.
The Chief Administrative Law Judge may appoint a settlement judge for any proceeding, if requested by the presiding officer under paragraph (c)(2) of this section or if the presiding officer concurs in a motion made under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(f)
Order appointing settlement judge.
The Chief Administrative Law Judge will appoint a settlement judge by an order, which specifies whether, and to what extent, the proceeding is suspended pending termination of settlement negotiations conducted in accordance with this section. The order may confine the scope of any settlement negotiations to specified issues.
(g)
Powers and duties of settlement judge.
(1) A settlement judge will convene and preside over conferences and settlement negotiations between the participants and assess the practicalities of a potential settlement.
(2)(i) A settlement judge will report to the Chief Administrative Law Judge
or the Commission, as appropriate, describing the status of the settlement negotiations and evaluating settlement prospects.
(ii) In any such report, the settlement judge may recommend the termination or continuation of settlement negotiations conducted under this section.
(iii) The first report by the settlement judge will be made not later than 30 days after the appointment of the settlement judge. The Commission or the Chief Administrative Law Judge may order additional reports at any time.
(h)
Termination of settlement negotiations before a settlement judge.
Unless an order of the Commission directing the appointment of a settlement judge provides otherwise, settlement negotiations conducted under this section will terminate upon the order of the Chief Administrative Law Judge issued after consultation with the settlement judge.
(i)
Non-reviewability.
Any decision concerning the appointment of a settlement judge or the termination of any settlement negotiations is not subject to review by, appeal to, or rehearing by the presiding officer, Chief Administrative Law Judge, or the Commission.
(j)
Multiple settlement negotiations.
If settlement negotiations are terminated under paragraph (h) of this section, the Chief Administrative Law Judge may subsequently appoint a settlement judge in the same proceeding to conduct settlement negotiations in accordance with this section.
§ 385.604
Alternative means of dispute resolution (Rule 604).
(a)
Applicability.
(1) Participants may, subject to the limitations of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, use alternative means of dispute resolution to resolve all or part of any pending matter if the participants agree. The alternative means of dispute resolution authorized under subpart F of this part will be voluntary procedures that supplement rather than limit other available dispute resolution techniques.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the decisional authority will not consent to use of an alternative dispute resolution proceeding if:
(i) A definitive or authoritative resolution of the matter is required for precedential value;
(ii) The matter involves or may bear upon significant questions of policy that require additional procedures before a final resolution may be made, and the proceeding would not likely serve to develop a recommended policy;
(iii) Maintaining established policies is of special importance;
(iv) The matter significantly affects persons or organizations who are not parties to the proceeding;
(v) A full public record of the proceeding is important, and a dispute resolution proceeding cannot provide a record; or
(vi) The Commission must maintain continuing jurisdiction over the matter with authority to alter the disposition of the matter in the light of changed circumstances, and a dispute resolution proceeding would interfere with the Commission's fulfilling that requirement.
(3) If one or more of the factors outlined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section is present, alternative dispute resolution may nevertheless be used if the alternative dispute resolution proceeding can be structured to avoid the identified factor or if other concerns significantly outweigh the identified factor.
(4) A determination to use or not to use a dispute resolution proceeding under subpart F of this part is not subject to judicial review.
(5) Settlement agreements reached through the use of alternative dispute resolution pursuant to subpart F of this part will be subject to the provisions of Rule 602, unless the decisional authority, upon motion or otherwise, orders a different procedure.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of subpart F of this part:
(1)
Alternative means of dispute resolution
means any procedure that is used, in lieu of an adjudication, to resolve issues in controversy, including but not limited to, settlement negotiations, conciliation, facilitation, mediation, factfinding, minitrials, and arbitration, or any combination thereof;
(2)
Award
means any decision by an arbitrator resolving the issues in controversy;
(3)
Dispute resolution communication
means any oral or written communication prepared for the purposes of a dispute resolution proceeding, including any memoranda, notes or work product of the neutral, parties or non-party participant. A written agreement to enter into a dispute resolution proceeding, or a final written agreement or arbitral award reached as a result of a dispute resolution proceeding, is not a dispute resolution communication;
(4)
Dispute resolution proceeding
means any alternative means of dispute resolution that is used to resolve an issue in controversy in which a neutral may be appointed and specified parties participate;
(5)
In confidence
means information is provided:
(i) With the expressed intent of the source that it not be disclosed, or
(ii) Under circumstances that create a reasonable expectation on behalf of the source that the information will not be disclosed;
(6)
Issue in controversy
means an issue which is or is anticipated to be material to a decision in a proceeding before the Commission and which is the subject of disagreement between participants who would be substantially affected by the decision or between the Commission and any such participants;
(7)
Neutral
means an individual who, with respect to an issue in controversy, functions specifically to aid the parties in resolving the controversy;
(8)
Participants
in a dispute resolution proceeding that is used to resolve an issue in controversy in a proceeding involving an application for a license or exemption to construct, operate, and maintain a hydroelectric project pursuant to the Federal Power Act or the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act shall include such state and federal agencies and Indian tribes as have statutory roles or a direct interest in such hydroelectric proceedings.
(c)
Neutrals.
(1) A neutral may be a permanent or temporary officer or employee of the Federal Government (including an administrative law judge), or any other individual who is acceptable to the participants to a dispute resolution proceeding. A neutral must have no official, financial, or personal conflict of interest with respect to the issues in controversy, except that a neutral who is not a government employee may serve if the interest is fully disclosed in writing to all participants and all participants agree.
(2) A neutral serves at the will of the participants, unless otherwise provided.
(3) Neutrals may be selected from among the Commission's administrative law judges or other employees, from rosters kept by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, the Administrative Conference of the United States, the American Arbitration Association, or from any other source.
(d)
Submission of proposal to use alternative means of dispute resolution.
(1) The participants may at any time submit a written proposal to use alternative means of dispute resolution to resolve all or part of any matter in controversy or anticipated to be in controversy before the Commission.
(2) For matters set for hearing under subpart E of this part, a proposal to use alternative means of dispute resolution must be filed with the presiding administrative law judge.
(3) For all other matters, a proposal to use alternative means of dispute resolution may be filed with the Secretary for consideration by the appropriate decisional authority.
(4) The appropriate decisional authority will issue an order, approving or denying, under the guidelines in Rule 604(a) (2) and (3), a proposal to use alternative means of dispute resolution. Denial of a proposal to use alternative dispute resolution will be in the form of an order and will identify the specific reasons for the denial. A proposal to use alternative dispute resolution is deemed approved unless an order denying approval is issued within 30 days after the proposal is filed.
(5) Any request to modify a previously-approved ADR proposal must follow the same procedure used for the initial approval.
(e)
Contents of proposal.
A proposal to use alternative means of dispute resolution must be in writing and include:
(1) A general identification of the issues in controversy intended to be resolved by the proposed alternative dispute resolution method,
(2) A description of the alternative dispute resolution method(s) to be used,
(3) The signatures of all participants or evidence otherwise indicating the consent of all participants; and
(4) A certificate of service pursuant to Rule 2010(h).
(f)
Monitoring the alternative dispute resolution proceeding.
The decisional authority may order reports on the status of the alternative dispute resolution proceeding at any time.
[Order 578, 60 FR 19506, Apr. 19, 1995, as amended by Order 602, 64 FR 17099, Apr. 8, 1999]
§ 385.605
Arbitration (Rule 605).
(a)
Authorization of arbitration.
(1) The participants may at any time submit a written proposal to use binding arbitration under the provisions of Rule 605 to resolve all or part of any matter in controversy, or anticipated to be in controversy, before the Commission.
(2) The proposal must be submitted as provided in Rule 604(d).
(3) The proposal must be in writing and contain the information required in Rule 604(e).
(4) An arbitration proceeding under this rule may be monitored as provided in Rule 604(f).
(5) No person may be required to consent to arbitration as a condition of entering into a contract or obtaining a benefit. All interested parties must expressly consent before arbitration may be used.
(b)
Arbitrators.
(1) The participants to an arbitration proceeding are entitled to select the arbitrator.
(2) The arbitrator must be a neutral who meets the criteria of a neutral under Rule 604(c).
(c)
Authority of arbitrator.
An arbitrator to whom a dispute is referred under this section may:
(1) Regulate the course of and conduct arbitral hearings;
(2) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(3) Compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of evidence to the extent the Commission is authorized by law to do so; and
(4) Make awards.
(d)
Arbitration proceedings.
(1) The arbitrator will set a time and place for the hearing on the dispute and must notify the participants not less than 5 days before the hearing.
(2) Any participant wishing that there be a record of the hearing must:
(i) Prepare the record;
(ii) Notify the other participants and the arbitrator of the preparation of the record;
(iii) Furnish copies to all identified participants and the arbitrator; and
(iv) Pay all costs for the record, unless the participants agree otherwise or the arbitrator determines that the costs should be apportioned.
(3)(i) Participants to the arbitration are entitled to be heard, to present evidence material to the controversy, and to cross-examine witnesses appearing at the hearing to the same extent as in a proceeding under Subpart E of this part;
(ii) The arbitrator may, with the consent of the participants, conduct all or part of the hearing by telephone, television, computer, or other electronic means, if each participant has an opportunity to participate.
(iii) The hearing must be conducted expeditiously and in an informal manner.
(iv) The arbitrator may receive any oral or documentary evidence, except that irrelevant, immaterial, unduly repetitious, or privileged evidence may be excluded by the arbitrator.
(v) The arbitrator will interpret and apply relevant statutory and regulatory requirements, legal precedents, and policy directives.
(4) No interested person will make or knowingly cause to be made to the arbitrator an unauthorized
ex parte
communication relevant to the merits of the proceeding, unless the participants agree otherwise. If a communication is made in violation of this prohibition, the arbitrator will ensure that a memorandum of the communication is prepared and made a part of the record, and that an opportunity for rebuttal is allowed. Upon receipt of such communication, the arbitrator may require the offending participant to show cause
why the claim of the participant should not be resolved against the participant as a result of the improper conduct.
(5) The arbitrator will make the award within 30 days after the close of the hearing or the date of the filing of any briefs authorized by the arbitrator, whichever date is later, unless the participants and the arbitrator agree to some other time limit.
(e)
Arbitration awards.
(1)(i) The award in an arbitration proceeding under Subpart F of this chapter will include a brief, informal discussion of the factual and legal basis for the award.
(ii) The prevailing participants must file the award with the Commission, along with proof of service on all participants.
(2) The award in an arbitration proceeding will become final 30 days after it is served on all parties.
(3) A final award is binding on the participants to the arbitration proceeding.
(4) An award may not serve as an estoppel in any other proceeding for any issue that was resolved in the proceeding. The award also may not be used as precedent or otherwise be considered in any factually unrelated proceeding or in any other arbitration proceeding.
[Order 578, 60 FR 19507, Apr. 19, 1995, as amended by Order 602, 64 FR 17099, Apr. 8, 1999]
§ 385.606
Confidentiality in dispute resolution proceedings (Rule 606).
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, a neutral in a dispute resolution proceeding shall not voluntarily disclose, or through discovery or compulsory process be required to disclose, any information concerning any dispute resolution communication or any communication provided in confidence to the neutral, unless:
(1) All participants in the dispute resolution proceeding and the neutral consent in writing;
(2) The dispute resolution communication has otherwise already been made public;
(3) The dispute resolution communication is required by statute to be made public, but a neutral should make the communication public only if no other person is reasonably available to disclose the communication; or
(4) A court determines that the testimony or disclosure is necessary to:
(i) Prevent a manifest injustice;
(ii) Help establish a violation of law; or
(iii) Prevent harm to the public health or safety of sufficient magnitude in the particular case to outweigh the integrity of dispute resolution proceedings in general by reducing the confidence of participants in future cases that their communications will remain confidential.
(b) A participant in a dispute resolution proceeding shall not voluntarily disclose, or through discovery or compulsory process be required to disclose, any information concerning any dispute resolution communication, unless:
(1) All participants to the dispute resolution proceeding consent in writing;
(2) The dispute resolution communication has otherwise already been made public;
(3) The dispute resolution communication is required by statute to be made public;
(4) A court determines that the testimony or disclosure is necessary to:
(i) Prevent a manifest injustice;
(ii) Help establish a violation of law; or
(iii) Prevent harm to the public health and safety of sufficient magnitude in the particular case to outweigh the integrity of dispute resolution proceedings in general by reducing the confidence of participants in future cases that their communications will remain confidential; or
(5) The dispute resolution communication is relevant to determining the existence or meaning of an agreement or award that resulted from the dispute resolution proceeding or to the enforcement of the agreement or award.
(c) Any dispute resolution communication that is disclosed in violation of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall not be admissible in any proceeding.
(d)(1) The participants may agree to alternative confidential procedures for disclosures by a neutral. The participants must inform the neutral before
the commencement of the dispute resolution proceeding of any modifications to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section that will govern the confidentiality of the dispute resolution proceeding. If the participants do not so inform the neutral, paragraph (a) of this section shall apply.
(2) To qualify for the exemption established under paragraph (l) of this section, an alternative confidential procedure under this paragraph may not provide for less disclosure than confidential procedures otherwise provided under this rule.
(e) If a demand for disclosure, by way of discovery request or other legal process, is made upon a participant regarding a dispute resolution communication, the participant will make reasonable efforts to notify the neutral and the other participants of the demand. Any participant who receives the notice and within 15 calendar days does not offer to defend a refusal of the neutral to disclose the requested information waives any objection to the disclosure.
(f) Nothing in Rule 606 prevents the discovery or admissibility of any evidence that is otherwise discoverable, merely because the evidence was presented in the course of a dispute resolution proceeding.
(g) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not preclude disclosure of information and data that are necessary to document an agreement reached or order issued pursuant to a dispute resolution proceeding.
(h) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not prevent the gathering of information for research and educational purposes, in cooperation with other agencies, governmental entities, or dispute resolution programs, so long as the participants and the specific issues in controversy are not identifiable.
(i) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not prevent use of a dispute resolution communication to resolve a dispute between the neutral in a dispute resolution proceeding and a participant in the proceeding, so long as the communication is disclosed only to the extent necessary to resolve the dispute.
(j) Nothing in this section precludes parties from seeking privileged treatment for documents under this chapter.
(k) Where disclosure is authorized by this section, nothing in this section precludes use of a protective agreement or protective orders.
(l) A dispute resolution communication that may not be disclosed under this rule shall also be exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3).
[Order 578, 60 FR 19508, Apr. 19, 1995, as amended by Order 602, 64 FR 17099, Apr. 8, 1999; Order 769, 77 FR 65476, Oct. 29, 2012]

# Subpart G—Decisions
§ 385.701
Applicability (Rule 701).
This subpart applies to decisions in proceedings set for hearing under subpart E of this part, including any decision on a certified question, interlocutory appeal, or reopening, and to any decision on rehearing, except that:
(a) The provisions of this subpart, other than those relating to rehearing or reopening, do not apply to consideration of an offer of settlement; and
(b) This subpart applies to summary disposition only to the extent provided in Rule 217.
§ 385.702
Definitions (Rule 702).
For purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Initial decision
means any decision rendered by a presiding officer in accordance with Rule 708;
(b)
Final decision
means any decision referred to in Rule 713.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 375, 49 FR 21315, May 21, 1984; Order 575, 60 FR 4860, Jan. 25, 1995]
§ 385.703
Contents of decisions (Rule 703).
Any decision in a proceeding is part of the record of that proceeding and will contain:
(a) A ruling on each exception presented and any finding or conclusion, with supporting reasons, on any material issue of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record; and
(b) The appropriate rule, order, sanction, relief, or a denial of any rule, order, motion, or relief.
§ 385.704
Rights of participants before initial decision (Rule 704).
After testimony is taken in a proceeding, or phase of a proceeding, the presiding officer will afford every participant an opportunity to:
(a) Submit written initial briefs in accordance with Rule 706, except that the presiding officer may provide an opportunity for oral argument in lieu of, or in addition to, initial briefs; and
(b) Submit written reply briefs in accordance with Rule 706, except that the presiding officer may:
(1) Provide an opportunity for oral reply argument in lieu of, or in addition to, reply briefs; or
(2) For good cause, deny opportunity for reply or limit the issues which may be addressed in any reply.
§ 385.705
Additional powers of presiding officer with respect to briefs (Rule 705).
(a)
Limitations on briefs.
A presiding officer, with due regard to the nature of the proceeding, may limit the length of any brief to be filed under Rule 706.
(b)
Additional briefs and other filings.
If appropriate, the presiding officer may permit or require briefs or other filings in addition to those provided for in Rule 706.
§ 385.706
Initial and reply briefs before initial decision (Rule 706).
(a)
When filed.
The presiding officer will prescribe a time for filing initial or reply briefs and for service of such briefs, giving due regard to the nature of the proceeding, the extent of the record, and the number and complexity of the issues. Unless the presiding officer otherwise orders, the time prescribed in a proceeding for filing briefs will be the same for all initial briefs and the same for all reply briefs.
(b)
Contents.
(1) An initial brief filed with the presiding officer must include:
(i) A concise statement of the case;
(ii) A separate section containing proposed findings and conclusions, unless waived by the presiding officer;
(iii) Arguments in support of the participant's position; and
(iv) Any other matter required by the presiding officer.
(2)(i) A reply brief filed with the presiding officer must be limited to a response to any arguments and issues raised in the initial briefs.
(ii) The presiding officer may impose limits on the reply brief in addition to any prescribed under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
(c)
Form.
(1) An exhibit admitted in evidence or marked for identification in the record may not be reproduced in the brief, but may be reproduced, within reasonable limits, in an appendix to the brief. Any pertinent analysis of an exhibit may be included in a brief.
(2) If a brief exceeds 20 pages, the brief must be accompanied by a table of contents and of points made, including page references, and an alphabetical list of citations, with page references.
(d)
Record.
All initial and reply briefs will accompany the record and be available to the Commission and the presiding officer for consideration in deciding the case.
§ 385.707
Oral argument before initial decision (Rule 707).
(a)
Procedure.
The presiding officer will designate the order of any oral argument to be held, set a time limit on each argument, and make any other procedural rulings.
(b)
Scope.
(1) If oral argument is held without an initial brief, each participant must be given the opportunity to present orally the information required or permitted to be included in initial briefs under Rule 706(b).
(2) If oral argument is held in addition to an initial or reply brief, oral argument may be limited to issues considered by the presiding officer to be appropriate issues for oral argument.
(c)
Inclusion of transcript of oral argument.
All oral arguments will be transcribed and included in the record and will be available to the Commission and the presiding officer in deciding the case.
§ 385.708
Initial decisions by presiding officer (Rule 708).
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to any proceeding in which a presiding officer, other than the Commission, presided over the reception of the evidence.
(b)
General rule.
(1) Except as otherwise ordered by the Commission or provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the presiding officer will prepare a written initial decision.
(2)(i) If time and circumstances require, the presiding officer may issue an order stating that an oral initial decision will be issued.
(ii) An oral decision is considered served upon all participants when the decision is issued orally on the record. Promptly after service of the oral decision, the presiding officer will prepare the oral initial decision contained in the transcript in the format of a written initial decision.
(3) Any initial decision prepared under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section will be certified to the Commission by the presiding officer with a copy of the record in the proceeding.
(4) Not later than 35 days after the certification of an initial decision, under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the presiding officer, after notifying the participants and receiving no objection from them, may make technical corrections to the initial decision.
(c)
Initial decision prepared and certified by presiding officer.
(1) The presiding officer who presides over the reception of evidence will prepare and certify the initial decision, if any, unless the officer is unavailable or the Commission provides otherwise in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 557(b).
(2) If the presiding officer who presided over the reception of evidence becomes unavailable, the Chief Administrative Law Judge may issue an order designating another qualified presiding officer to prepare and certify the initial decision.
(d)
Finality of initial decision.
For purposes of requests for rehearing under Rule 713, an initial decision becomes a final Commission decision 10 days after exceptions are due under Rule 711 unless:
(1) Exceptions are timely filed under Rule 711; or
(2) The Commission issues an order staying the effectiveness of the decision pending review under Rule 712.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 375, 49 FR 21315, May 21, 1984; Order 575, 60 FR 4860, Jan. 25, 1995]
§ 385.709
Other types of decisions (Rule 709).
In lieu of an initial decision under Rule 708, the Commission may order any type of decision as provided by 5 U.S.C. 557(b), or permit waiver of the initial decision as provided by Rule 710.
§ 385.710
Waiver of the initial decision (Rule 710).
(a)
General rule.
Any participant may file a motion requesting the Commission to issue a final decision without any initial decision. If all participants join in the motion, the motion is granted, unless the Commission denies the motion within 10 days after the date of filing of the motion or, in the case of an oral motion under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, within 10 days after the motion is transmitted to the Commission. If all participants do not join in the motion, the motion is denied unless the Commission grants the motion within 30 days of filing of the motion or, in the case of an oral motion under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, within 30 days after the motion is transmitted to the Commission.
(b)
Content.
Any motion to waive the initial decision filed with the Commission must specify:
(1) Whether any participant waives any procedural right;
(2) Whether all participants concur in the request to waive the initial decision;
(3) The reasons that waiver of the initial decision is in the interest of parties and the public interest;
(4) Whether any participant desires an opportunity for filing briefs; and
(5) Whether any participant desires an opportunity for oral argument before the presiding officer, the Commission, or an individual Commissioner.
(c)
How and when made.
(1) Any written motion under this section may be filed at any time, but not later than the fifth day following the close of the hearing conducted under subpart E of this part.
(2) An oral motion under this section may be made during a hearing session, in which case the presiding officer will transmit to the Commission the relevant portions of the transcript of the hearing in which the motion was made.
(d)
Waiver by presiding officer.
A motion for waiver of the initial decision, requested for the purpose of certification of a contested settlement pursuant to Rule 602(h)(2)(iii)(A), may be filed with, and decided by, the presiding officer. If all parties join in the motion, the presiding officer will grant the motion. If not all parties join in the motion, the motion is denied unless the presiding officer grants the motion within 30 days of filing the written motion or presenting an oral motion. The contents of any motion filed under paragraph (d) of this section must comply with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. A motion may be oral or written, and may be made whenever appropriate for the consideration of the presiding officer.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 376, 49 FR 21705, May 23, 1984; Order 578, 60 FR 19508, Apr. 19, 1995]
§ 385.711
Exceptions and briefs on and opposing exceptions after initial decision (Rule 711).
(a)
Exceptions.
(1)(i) Any participant may file with the Commission exceptions to the initial decision in a brief on exceptions not later than 30 days after service of the initial decision.
(ii) Not later than 20 days after the latest date for filing a brief on exceptions, any participant may file a brief opposing exceptions in response to a brief on exceptions.
(iii) A participant may file, within the time set for filing briefs opposing exceptions, a brief on exceptions solely for the purpose of incorporating by reference one or more numbered exceptions contained in the brief of another participant. A brief filed under this clause need not comply with the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) A brief on exceptions or a brief opposing exceptions may not exceed 100 pages, unless the Chief Administrative Law Judge, upon motion, changes the page limitation.
(3) The Secretary may extend, on motion or upon direction of the Commission, the time limits for any brief on or opposing exceptions. No additional briefs are permitted, unless specifically ordered by the Commission.
(4) A participant may not attach to, or incorporate by reference in, any brief on exceptions or brief opposing exceptions any portion of an initial or reply brief filed in the proceeding.
(b)
Nature of briefs on exceptions and of briefs opposing exceptions.
(1) Any brief on exceptions and any brief opposing exceptions must include:
(i) If the brief exceeds 10 pages in length, a separate summary of the brief not longer than five pages; and
(ii) A presentation of the participant's position and arguments in support of that position, including references to the pages of the record or exhibits containing evidence and arguments in support of that position.
(2) Any brief on exceptions must include, in addition to matters required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section:
(i) A short statement of the case;
(ii) A list of numbered exceptions, including a specification of each error of fact or law asserted; and
(iii) A concise discussion of the policy considerations that may warrant full Commission review and opinion.
(3) A brief opposing exceptions must include, in addition to matters required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section:
(i) A list of exceptions opposed, by number; and
(ii) A rebuttal of policy considerations claimed to warrant Commission review.
(c)
Oral argument.
(1) Any participant filing a brief on exceptions or brief opposing exceptions may request, by written motion, oral argument before the Commission or an individual Commissioner.
(2) A motion under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be filed within the time limit for filing briefs opposing exceptions.
(3) No answer may be made to a motion under paragraph (c)(1) and, to that extent, Rule 213(a)(3) is inapplicable to a motion for oral argument.
(4) A motion under paragraph (c)(1) of this section may be granted at the discretion of the Commission. If the motion is granted, any oral argument will be limited, unless otherwise specified, to matters properly raised by the briefs.
(d)
Failure to take exceptions results in waiver
—(1)
Complete waiver.
If a participant does not file a brief on exceptions within the time permitted under this section, any objection to the initial decision by the participant is waived.
(2)
Partial waiver.
If a participant does not object to a part of an initial decision in a brief on exceptions, any objections by the participant to that part of the initial decision are waived.
(3)
Effect of waiver.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission for good cause shown, a participant who has waived objections under paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section to all or part of an initial decision may not raise such objections before the Commission in oral argument or on rehearing.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 375, 49 FR 21316, May 21, 1984; Order 575, 60 FR 4860, Jan. 25, 1995]
§ 385.712
Commission review of initial decisions in the absence of exceptions (Rule 712).
(a)
General rule.
If no briefs on exceptions to an initial decision are filed within the time established by rule or order under Rule 711, the Commission may, within 10 days after the expiration of such time, issue an order staying the effectiveness of the decision pending Commission review.
(b)
Briefs and argument.
When the Commission reviews a decision under this section, the Commission may require that participants file briefs or present oral arguments on any issue.
(c)
Effect of review.
After completing review under this section, the Commission will issue a decision which is final for purposes of rehearing under Rule 713.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 375, 49 FR 21316, May 21, 1984; Order 575, 60 FR 4860, Jan. 25, 1995]
§ 385.713
Request for rehearing (Rule 713).
(a)
Applicability.
(1) This section applies to any request for rehearing of a final Commission decision or other final order, if rehearing is provided for by statute, rule, or order.
(2) For the purposes of rehearing under this section, a final decision in any proceeding set for hearing under subpart E of this part includes any Commission decision:
(i) On exceptions taken by participants to an initial decision;
(ii) When the Commission presides at the reception of the evidence;
(iii) If the initial decision procedure has been waived by consent of the participants in accordance with Rule 710;
(iv) On review of an initial decision without exceptions under Rule 712; and
(v) On any other action designated as a final decision by the Commission for purposes of rehearing.
(3) For the purposes of rehearing under this section, any initial decision under Rule 709 is a final Commission decision after the time provided for Commission review under Rule 712, if there are no exceptions filed to the decision and no review of the decision is initiated under Rule 712.
(b)
Time for filing; who may file.
A request for rehearing by a party must be filed not later than 30 days after issuance of any final decision or other final order in a proceeding.
(c)
Content of request.
Any request for rehearing must:
(1) State concisely the alleged error in the final decision or final order;
(2) Conform to the requirements in Rule 203(a), which are applicable to pleadings, and, in addition, include a separate section entitled “Statement of Issues,” listing each issue in a separately enumerated paragraph that includes representative Commission and court precedent on which the party is relying; any issue not so listed will be deemed waived; and
(3) Set forth the matters relied upon by the party requesting rehearing, if rehearing is sought based on matters not available for consideration by the Commission at the time of the final decision or final order.
(d)
Answers.
(1) The Commission will not permit answers to requests for rehearing.
(2) The Commission may afford parties an opportunity to file briefs or present oral argument on one or more issues presented by a request for rehearing.
(e)
Request is not a stay.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, the filing of a request for rehearing does
not stay the Commission decision or order.
(f)
Commission action on rehearing.
Unless the Commission acts upon a request for rehearing within 30 days after the request is filed, the request is denied.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 375, 49 FR 21316, May 21, 1984; Order 575, 60 FR 4860, Jan. 25, 1995; 60 FR 16567, Mar. 31, 1995; Order 663, 70 FR 55725, Sept. 23, 2005; 71 FR 14642, Mar. 23, 2006]
§ 385.714
Certified questions (Rule 714).
(a)
General rule.
During any proceeding, a presiding officer may certify or, if the Commission so directs, will certify, to the Commission for consideration and disposition any question arising in the proceeding, including any question of law, policy, or procedure.
(b)
Notice.
A presiding officer will notify the participants of the certification of any question to the Commission and of the date of any certification. Any such notification may be given orally during the hearing session or by order.
(c)
Presiding officer's memorandum; views of the participants.
(1) A presiding officer should solicit, to the extent practicable, the oral or written views of the participants on any question certified under this section.
(2) The presiding officer must prepare a memorandum which sets forth the relevant issues, discusses all the views of participants, and recommends a disposition of the issues.
(3) The presiding officer must append to any question certified under this section the written views submitted by the participants, the transcript pages containing oral views, and the memorandum of the presiding officer.
(d)
Return of certified question to presiding officer.
If the Commission does not act on any certified question within 30 days after receipt of the certification under paragraph (a) of this section, the question is deemed returned to the presiding officer for decision in accordance with the other provisions of this subpart.
(e)
Certification not suspension.
Unless otherwise directed by the Commission or the presiding officer, certification under this section does not suspend the proceeding.
§ 385.715
Interlocutory appeals to the Commission from rulings of presiding officers (Rule 715).
(a)
General rule.
A participant may not appeal to the Commission any ruling of a presiding officer during a proceeding, unless the presiding officer under paragraph (b) of this section, or the motions Commissioner, under paragraph (c) of this section, finds extraordinary circumstances which make prompt Commission review of the contested ruling necessary to prevent detriment to the public interest or irreparable harm to any person.
(b)
Motion to the presiding officer to permit appeal.
(1) Any participant in a proceeding may, during the proceeding, move that the presiding officer permit appeal to the Commission from a ruling of the presiding officer. The motion must be made within 15 days of the ruling of the presiding officer and must state why prompt Commission review is necessary under the standards of paragraph (a) of this section
(2) Upon receipt of a motion to permit appeal under subparagraph (a)(1) of this section, the presiding officer will determine, according to the standards of paragraph (a) of this section, whether to permit appeal of the ruling to the Commission. The presiding officer need not consider any answer to this motion.
(3) Any motion to permit appeal to the Commission of an order issued under Rule 604, or appeal of a ruling under paragraph (a) or (b) of Rule 905, must be granted by the presiding officer.
(4) A presiding officer must issue an order, orally or in writing, containing the determination made under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the date of the action taken.
(5) If the presiding officer permits appeal, the presiding officer will transmit to the Commission:
(i) A memorandum which sets forth the relevant issues and an explanation of the rulings on the issues; and
(ii) the participant's motion under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and any answer permitted to the motion.
(6) If the presiding officer does not issue an order under paragraph (b)(1) of this section within 15 days after the motion is filed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the motion is denied.
(c)
Appeal of a presiding officer's denial of motion to permit appeal.
(1) If a motion to permit appeal is denied by the presiding officer, the participant who made the motion may appeal the denial to the Commissioner who is designated Motions Commissioner, in accordance with this paragraph. For purposes of this section, “Motions Commissioner” means the Chairman or a member of the Commission designated by the Chairman to rule on motions to permit interlocutory appeal. Any person filing an appeal under this paragraph must serve separate copies of the appeal on the Motions Commissioner and on the General Counsel by Express Mail or by hand delivery.
(2) A participant must submit an appeal under this paragraph not later than 7 days after the motion to permit appeal under paragraph (b) of this section is denied. The appeal must state why prompt Commission review is necessary under the standards set forth in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. The appeal must be labeled in accordance with § 385.2002(b) of this chapter.
(3) A participant who appeals under this paragraph must file with the appeal a copy of the written order denying the motion or, if the denial was issued orally, the relevant portions of the transcript.
(4) The Motions Commissioner may, in considering an appeal under this paragraph, order the presiding officer or any participant in the proceeding to provide additional information.
(5) The Motions Commissioner will permit an appeal to the Commission under this paragraph only if the Motions Commissioner finds extraordinary circumstances which make prompt Commission review of the contested ruling necessary to prevent detriment to the public interest or to prevent irreparable harm to a person. If the Motions Commissioner makes no determination within 7 days after filing the appeal under this paragraph or within the time the Motions Commissioner otherwise provides to receive and consider information under this paragraph, the appeal to the Commission under paragraph (b) of this section will not be permitted.
(6) If appeal under paragraph (b) of this section is not permitted, the contested ruling of the presiding officer will be reviewed in the ordinary course of the proceeding as if the appeal had not been made.
(7) If the Motions Commissioner permits an appeal to the Commission, the Secretary will issue an order containing that decision.
(d)
Commission action.
Unless the Commission acts upon an appeal permitted by a presiding officer under paragraph (b) of this section, or by the Motions Commissioner under paragraph (c) of this section, within 15 days after the date on which the presiding officer or Motions Commissioner permits appeal, the ruling of the presiding officer will be reviewed in the ordinary course of the proceeding as if the appeal had not been made.
(e)
Appeal not to suspend proceeding.
Any decision by a presiding officer to permit appeal under paragraph (b) of this section or by the Motions Commissioner to permit an appeal under paragraph (c) of this section will not suspend the proceeding, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer or the Motions Commissioner.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 376, 49 FR 21705, May 23, 1984; Order 402, 49 FR 39539, Oct. 9, 1984; Order 725, 74 FR 41039, Aug. 14, 2009]
§ 385.716
Reopening (Rule 716).
(a)
General rule.
To the extent permitted by law, the presiding officer or the Commission may, for good cause under paragraph (c) of this section, reopen the evidentiary record in a proceeding for the purpose of taking additional evidence.
(b)
By motion.
(1) Any participant may file a motion to reopen the record.
(2) Any motion to reopen must set forth clearly the facts sought to be proven and the reasons claimed to constitute grounds for reopening.
(3) A participant who does not file an answer to any motion to reopen will be deemed to have waived any objection to the motion provided that no other participant has raised the same objection.
(c)
By action of the presiding officer or the Commission.
If the presiding officer or the Commission, as appropriate, has reason to believe that reopening of a proceeding is warranted by any changes in conditions of fact or of law or by the public interest, the record in the proceeding may be reopened by the presiding officer before the initial or revised initial decision is served or by the Commission after the initial decision or, if appropriate, the revised initial decision is served.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 375, 49 FR 21316, May 21, 1984]

# Subpart H—Shortened Procedures
§ 385.801
Waiver of hearing (Rule 801).
In any proceeding in which the Commission is authorized to act after opportunity for hearing, if the parties waive hearing, such opportunity will be deemed to have been afforded by service or publication in the
Federal Register
of notice of the application or other initial pleading, request, or other filing, such notice fixing a reasonable period of time within which any person desiring to be heard may file a protest or petition. Upon the expiration of such period of time, in the absence of a request for hearing, the Commission may forthwith dispose of the matter upon the basis of the pleadings and other submittals and the studies and recommendations of the staff. A party not requesting oral hearing in its pleadings will be deemed to have waived a hearing for the purpose of such disposition, but will not be bound by such a waiver for the purposes of any request for rehearing with respect to an order so entered.
§ 385.802
Noncontested proceedings (Rule 802).
Noncontested proceedings.
In any proceeding required by statute to be set for hearing, the Commission, when it appears to be in the public interest and to be in the interest of the parties to grant the relief or authority requested in the initial pleading, and to omit the intermediate decision procedure, may, after a hearing during which no opposition or contest develops, forthwith dispose of the proceedings upon consideration of the pleadings and other evidence filed and incorporated in the record:
Provided,
(a) The applicant or other initial pleader requests that the intermediate decision procedure be omitted and waives oral hearing and opportunity for filing exceptions to the decision of the Commission; and (b) no issue of substance is raised by any request to be heard, protest or petition filed subsequent to publication in the
Federal Register
of the notice of the filing of an initial pleading and notice or order fixing of hearing, which notice or order will state that the Commission considers the proceeding a proper one for disposition under the provisions of this subpart. Requests for the procedure provided by this subpart may be contained in the initial pleading or subsequent request in writing to the Commission. The decision of the Commission in such proceeding after noncontested hearing, will be final, subject to reconsideration by the Commission upon request for rehearing as provided by statute.

# Subpart I—Commission Review of Remedial Orders
§ 385.901
Scope (Rule 901).
(a)
Proceedings to which applicable.
The provisions of this subpart apply to proceedings of the Commission held in accordance with section 503(c) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7193(c)) to review orders issued by the Secretary of Energy pursuant to section 503(a) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7193(c)), and initiated by notices of probable violation, proposed remedial orders, or other formal administrative initiating documents issued on or after October 1, 1977, which are contested by the recipient.
(b)
Relationship to other rules.
(1) Where a provision of this subpart is inconsistent with a provision in any other subpart of this part, the provision in this subpart controls.
(2) Subpart F of this part, except Rule 601, does not apply to proceedings under this subpart.
§ 385.902
Definitions (Rule 902).
For purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Contested order
means the remedial order, interim remedial order for immediate compliance or order of disallowance being contested in proceeding pursuant to this subpart;
(b)
Interim remedial order for immediate compliance
means an interim remedial order for immediate compliance issued pursuant to 10 CFR 205.199D (interim remedial order of immediate compliance);
(c)
Order of disallowance
means an order of disallowance issued pursuant to 10 CFR 205.199E (disallowance);
(d)
Participant
means, as appropriate, the Secretary, the petitioner, and intervenors;
(e)
Petitioner
means a person who has received a remedial order, interim remedial order for immediate compliance, or order of disallowance who notifies the Secretary that he intends to contest the order;
(f)
Remedial order
means a remedial order issued pursuant to 10 CFR 205.199B (remedial orders);
(g)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy or his delegate.
§ 385.903
Request for nondisclosure of information (Rule 903).
(a) For purposes of this section, nondisclosure means nondisclosure except as to the participants in the proceeding under conditions provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(b) If any person filing under this subpart claims that some or all of the information contained in a document is exempt from the mandatory public disclosure requirements of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), is information referred to in section 1905 of title 18 of the United States Code (18 U.S.C. 1905) (disclosure of confidential information), or is otherwise exempt by law from public disclosure, the person:
(1) Must request the presiding officer not to disclose such information, except to the participants in the proceeding under the conditions provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, which request the person must serve upon the participants in the proceeding;
(2) Must file, together with the document, a second copy of the document from which has been deleted the information for which the person requests nondisclosure and must indicate in the original document that the original document is exempt, or contains information which is exempt, from disclosure;
(3) Must include a statement specifying why the information is privileged or confidential, if the information for which nondisclosure is requested is claimed to come within the exception in 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) for trade secrets and commercial or financial information;
(4) Must include a statement specifying the justification for nondisclosure, if the information for which nondisclosure is requested is not within the exception in 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
(c) If the person filing a document does not submit a second copy of the document from which the appropriate information has been deleted, the presiding officer may assume that there is no objection to public disclosure of the document in its entirety.
(d) If information is submitted in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the information will not be disclosed except as provided in the Freedom of Information Act, in accordance with part 388 of this subchapter and upon request in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, to participants in the proceeding under the restrictions that the participants may not use or disclose the information except in the context of the proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart and that the participants must return all copies of the information at the conclusion of the proceeding to the person who submitted the information under paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) At any time, a participant may request the presiding officer to direct a person submitting information under paragraph (b) of this section to provide that information to the participant requesting the information under this paragraph. The presiding officer will so direct if the participant requesting the information agrees:
(1) Not to use or disclose the information except in the context of the proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart; and
(2) To return all copies of the information, at the conclusion of the proceeding, to the person submitting the information under paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) At any time, a participant may request the presiding officer to direct that the complete record of prior proceedings, including information determined by the Secretary to be exempt from disclosure, be made available to that participant by the Secretary. The presiding officer will so direct if the participant requesting the complete record agrees:
(1) Not to use or disclose the information determined to be exempt except in the context of the proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart, and
(2) To return all copies of the information determined to be exempt to the presiding officer at the conclusion of the proceeding.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 416, 50 FR 15733, Apr. 22, 1985]
§ 385.904
Commencement of proceeding (Rule 904).
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the proceeding pursuant to this subpart will be commenced by filing with the Secretary of the Commission either an answer by a petitioner pursuant to Rule 906(b)(1), or a written notice by the Secretary that a petitioner has filed a notice of intent to contest an order reviewable under this subpart, whichever is filed first. The Secretary must file written notice that a petitioner has filed a notice of intent to contest an order reviewable under this subpart within 15 days of the Secretary's receipt of such notice of intent. When the Secretary files the written notice, the Secretary must serve a copy of the contested order upon other participants in the prior proceedings and upon persons denied intervention in the prior proceedings, and must certify to the Commission that such service has been made, stating the names and addresses of persons served.
(b) The proceeding pursuant to this subpart with respect to an interim remedial order for immediate compliance will be commenced by a petitioner's filing with the Secretary of the Commission, for the Commission, and serving on other participants in the prior proceedings, if any, a notice of petition for review of an interim remedial order for immediate compliance pursuant to 10 CFR 205.199D(i)(1) (interim remedial order of immediate compliance). The Commission will defer consideration of the merits of the order until a final remedial order is issued by the Secretary.
(c) Upon commencement of a proceeding, the Commission or its designee will designate a presiding officer for the proceeding, and the Commission or its designee will notify participants in the prior proceedings and persons denied intervention in the prior proceedings of such designation.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 416-A, 50 FR 36053, Sept. 5, 1985]
§ 385.905
Stay of contested order (Rule 905).
(a) Upon commencement of a proceeding, the contested order will be automatically stayed pending review pursuant to this subpart unless and until, upon request of the Secretary or other participant, the presiding officer finds that the public interest requires immediate compliance with the contested order.
(b) The Secretary or other participants may at any time prior to the hearing under Rule 909 (Hearing), if requested; or, if there is no hearing, within 30 days of the commencement of the proceeding under Rule 904 (Commencement of proceeding); file a petition requesting that the contested order not be stayed, or that the stay be lifted, and setting forth the legal and factual basis for the request.
(c) The presiding officer may request a written statement of the views of participants regarding whether the contested order should be stayed or continue to be stayed and may convene an expedited hearing or conference on a petition under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The presiding officer may grant the petition requesting immediate compliance where he finds that the public interest so requires and will notify the participants of the determination.
(e) If the presiding officer does not grant the petition under paragraph (b) of this section within 10 days after it is filed, the petition is denied. Prior to the expiration of the 10-day period the presiding officer may extend the period for decision for up to 7 days. At the end of the extension, the petition, if not granted, is denied.
(f) If the petition under paragraph (b) of this section is denied, the presiding officer will notify the participants of such denial.
(g) A grant or denial of petition under paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section may be appealed, within 10 days after the grant or denial, to the Commission in accordance with Rule 715 (relating to interlocutory appeals). The contested order will remain stayed pending the Commission's disposition of the appeal.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 416, 50 FR 15733, Apr. 22, 1985; Order 416-A, 50 FR 36054, Sept. 5, 1985]
§ 385.906
Pleadings (Rule 906).
(a)
By the Secretary.
(1) Within 20 days after the commencement of a proceeding, the Secretary:
(i) Will file with the Secretary for the presiding officer a copy of the contested order; and
(ii) May, in addition, elect to file a statement setting forth the factual elements of the alleged violation, which statement the Secretary will serve on all participants in the proceeding.
(2) If the petitioner requests permission to raise new facts or issues pursuant to Rule 907(a) (new facts and issues), the Secretary may file, within 10 days after the filing of the petitioner's answer, a reply responding to the petitioner's request to raise new facts or issues. In the reply, the Secretary may also request the permission of the presiding officer to raise new facts or issues under the criteria set forth in Rule 907(b) (new facts and issues) and to conduct discovery relating to the new facts or issues he may raise pursuant to Rule 907(b) (new facts and issues). Failure by the Secretary to request permission to raise new facts or issues or to conduct discovery in this reply constitutes a waiver of the opportunity to do so at a later time in the proceeding.
(3) The Secretary will file with the Secretary of the Commission, for the presiding officer, and serve upon other participants in the proceedings, a brief in support of the affirmative case, which will set forth:
(i) The elements of the alleged violation, including references to the authorities upon which the Secretary relies, including but not limited to regulations, rulings, interpretations and decisions on appeals and exceptions issued by the Department or its predecessor agencies and precedents established by the Commission; and
(ii) A complete statement of the factual and legal basis of the contested order.
(4) The Secretary's brief will be filed according to the following time period appropriate to the particular proceeding:
(i) If no participant (including persons requesting intervention) has requested permission to raise new facts or issues or to conduct discovery pursuant to paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(2), (c)(7), and (c)(8) of this section, within 20 days after the filing of the petitioner's answer under paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(ii) If the presiding officer has determined, under Rule 908(d) (discovery) that no discovery shall be permitted, within 20 days after the presiding officer's determination under such rule;
(iii) If discovery is permitted under Rule 908(d) (discovery) within 20 days after the conclusion of the time period set for discovery under such rule;
(b)
By the petitioner.
(1) Within 15 days after petitioner gives written notice to the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Department of Energy pursuant to 10 CFR 205.199C(b) that petitioner wishes to appeal the remedial order, the petitioner must file with the Secretary of the Commission, for the presiding officer, and serve upon the Secretary and other participants in the proceedings, an answer to the contested order admitting or denying each of the Secretary's findings in the contested order and setting forth affirmative defenses, if any. Each answer filed with the Secretary of the Commission by the petitioner, in accordance with this paragraph, must be accompanied
by the fee prescribed by § 381.303 of this chapter.
(2) In the answer, the petitioner may:
(i) Contest any part of the record;
(ii) Request permission to raise new facts or issues not raised in the prior proceedings if the new facts or issues meet the criteria set forth in Rule 907(a) (new facts and issues); and
(iii) Request permission to conduct discovery, subject to criteria provided in Rule 908(a) (discovery). Failure by the petitioner to contest the record or to request permission to raise new facts or issues or to conduct discovery in this answer constitutes a waiver of the opportunity to do so at a later time in the proceeding.
(3) Within 15 days after filing of the Secretary's brief under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the petitioner shall file with the Secretary of the Commission, for the presiding officer, and serve upon other participants in the proceeding, a brief stating fully the objections to the contested order, including references to the authorities upon which the petitioner relies, including but not limited to regulations, rulings, interpretations, and decisions on appeals and exceptions issued by the Department or its predecessor agencies and precedents established by the Commission.
(c)
By interveners.
(1) A person qualifying under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, may request the presiding officer to permit intervention in the proceeding under this subpart in accordance with the procedures described in this paragraph.
(2) A motion to intervene may be filed by any person claiming:
(i) An interest which may be directly affected and which is not adequately protected by existing parties and as to which the persons requesting intervention may be bound by the Commissions action in the proceeding; or
(ii) Any other interest of such nature that participation by the person requesting intervention may be in the public interest.
(3) A motion to intervene must set forth clearly and concisely the facts from which the nature of the requester's alleged right or interest can be determined, the grounds of the proposed intervention, and the position of the intervener in the proceeding, so as fully and completely to advise the participants and the presiding officer as to the specific issues of fact or law to be raised or controverted, by admitting, denying, or otherwise answering, specifically and in detail, each material allegation of fact or law raised or controverted, including references to the authorities upon which the requester relies, including, but not limited to, regulations, rulings, interpretations, and decisions on appeals and exceptions issued by the Department or its predecessor agencies and precedents established by the Commission.
(4) Motions to intervene may be filed with the Secretary of the Commission, for the presiding officer, within 20 days after the commencement of the proceeding under Rule 904 (commencement of proceedings) unless, in extraordinary circumstances and for good cause shown, the presiding officer authorizes a late filing. A person requesting intervention must serve the motion to intervene on the participants in the proceeding at the same time the request is filed with the Secretary of the Commission.
(5) A participant in the proceedings may file an answer to a motion to intervene. Failure to object constitutes a waiver of any objection to the granting of such request. If made, answers must be filed within 15 days after the filing of the request to intervene.
(6) After expiration of the time for filing answers to requests to intervene or default thereof, as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, the presiding officer will grant or deny such request, in whole or in part, or may, if found to be appropriate, authorize limited participation. The presiding officer will serve the determination on a motion to intervene upon the participants in the proceeding and upon the person requesting intervention. A person wholly or partially denied intervention may take an interlocutory appeal of the order denying intervention, under Rule 715 (interlocutory appeals to the Commission from rulings of presiding officers), and will be considered a “participant” (as that term is defined in Rule 102(b) (definitions)) for the limited purpose of permitting that person to file an interlocutory appeal under
Rule 715 (interlocutory appeals to the Commission from rulings of presiding officers) contesting denial, in whole or in part, of that person's motion to intervene.
(7) A person filing a motion to intervene, may request therein the permission of the presiding officer to raise new facts or issues not raised in the prior proceedings on the contested order, if the new facts or issues meet the criteria set forth in Rule 903(c) (request for nondisclosure of information). Failure by the person requesting permission to intervene to request permission to raise new facts or issues in the motion to intervene constitutes a waiver of the opportunity to do so at a later time in the proceeding.
(8) A person filing a motion to intervene may request the permission of the presiding officer to conduct discovery, subject to the conditions set forth in Rule 908(c) (discovery). Failure by the person requesting permission to intervene to request permission to conduct discovery in the motion to intervene constitutes a waiver of the opportunity to do so at a later time in the proceeding.
(d)
Attachments of pleadings.
(1) Each party will file, as an appendix to each pleading which cites documents in the record developed in the prior proceedings on the remedial order, one copy of each such document in its entirety and, if any such document contains information exempt from public disclosure pursuant to Rule 903, a second copy of such document with such information deleted. The top of the first page of each such document will contain the word “PUBLIC” or “NONPUBLIC,” to indicate whether it contains such exempt information.
(2) One copy of each version shall be served on counsel for the petitioner and/or the Secretary, and one copy of the PUBLIC version shall be served on counsel for each other participant separately represented unless the conditions of Rule 903 are met, in which situation such counsel shall be served with copies of both versions.
(3) In compiling their appendices, the parties will include only documents specifically cited and relied upon in their pleadings. They will have regard for the fact that the Secretary's entire administrative record is always available to the Commission and will not include irrelevant or duplicative documents in the appendices.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 395, 49 FR 35357, Sept. 7, 1984; Order 416, 50 FR 15733, Apr. 22, 1985; Order 416-A, 50 FR 36054, Sept. 5, 1985]
§ 385.907
New facts and issues (Rule 907).
(a)
Raised by the petitioner.
In the answer, as provided in Rule 906(b)(2)(ii) (new facts and issues) the petitioner may request permission of the presiding officer to raise new facts or issues not raised in prior proceedings on the contested order that:
(1)(i) Are facts or issues that were not known and could not, with the exercise of due care, have been known to the petitioner at the time they would otherwise have been raised during the prior proceedings;
(ii) Are facts or issues that the petitioner was unable to raise at the time they could have been raised during the prior proceedings because of unduly restrictive time limits imposed by the Secretary; or
(iii) Are facts or issues that the petitioner was not permitted to raise in the prior proceedings due to erroneous adverse procedural rulings; and
(2) Are necessary for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(b)
Raised by the Secretary.
In the reply under Rule 906(a)(2) (pleadings), the Secretary may request permission of the presiding officer to raise new facts or issues not raised in prior proceedings on the contested order that:
(1) Are necessary to support the Secretary's case as a result of new facts or issues raised by the petitioner under Rule 906(b)(2)(ii) (pleadings) and this section; and
(2) Are necessary for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(c)
Raised by interveners.
In the motion to intervene under Rule 906(c)(3) (pleadings) and this section, an intervener may request permission of the presiding officer to raise new facts or issues not raised in prior proceedings on the contested order that:
(1) If the intervener did not participate in the prior proceeding, meet the
criteria of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section; or
(2) If the intervener participated in the prior proceedings, are:
(i)(A) Facts or issues that were not known and could not, with the exercise of due care, have been known to the intervener at the time they would otherwise have been raised during the prior proceedings;
(B) Facts or issues that the intervener was unable to raise at the time they could have been raised during the prior proceedings because of unduly restrictive time limits imposed by the Secretary; or
(C) Facts or issues that the intervener was not permitted to raise in the prior proceedings due to erroneous adverse procedural rulings; and
(ii) Are necessary for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(d)
Determination by the presiding officer.
The presiding officer will determine whether to grant or deny, in whole or in part, the requests of the participants to raise new facts or issues and will serve those determinations on the participants in the proceeding.
§ 385.908
Discovery (Rule 908).
(a)
By petitioner.
In the answer under Rule 906(b)(2) (pleadings), the petitioner may request permission of the presiding officer to conduct discovery, where such discovery:
(1) Relates to new facts or issues raised in accordance with Rule 907(a) (new facts and issues); or
(2)(i) Was not permitted in the prior proceedings on the contested order due to erroneous adverse procedural rulings; and
(ii) Is necessary for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(b)
By the Secretary.
In the reply under Rule 906(a)(2) (pleadings), the Secretary may request permission of the presiding officer to conduct discovery where such discovery relates to new facts or issues raised in accordance with Rule 907(b) (new facts and issues).
(c)
By interveners.
In a motion to intervene under Rule 906(c)(8) (pleadings) an intervener may request permission of the presiding officer to conduct discovery where such discovery:
(1) Relates to new facts or issues raised in accordance with Rule 907(c) (new facts and issues); or
(2) If the intervener participated in the prior proceedings,
(i) Such discovery was not permitted in prior proceedings on the contested order due to erroneous adverse procedural rulings; and
(ii) Such discovery is necessary for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(d)
Determinations by the presiding officer.
The presiding officer will determine whether to grant or deny, in whole or in part, the requests of the participants for discovery and will set a time limit within which discovery must be conducted.
(e)
Interrogatories.
In addition to discovery devices applicable to this subpart under other subparts of this part, participants may conduct discovery by means of written interrogatories under conditions determined by the presiding officer.
§ 385.909
Hearing (Rule 909).
(a) Participant may file, within 20 days after the commencement of the proceeding under Rule 904 (Commencement of proceeding), a request for a hearing or a motion for the opportunity for cross-examination including the reasons why cross-examination is necessary for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(b) If a participant has filed a request for a hearing, the presiding officer will grant the request for a hearing. The hearing will include an opportunity for the submission of oral or documentary evidence and oral arguments.
(c) The presiding officer may at any time, convene a hearing.
(d) As soon as practicable after receiving a request for hearing under paragraph (a) of this section or after determination that a hearing will be held under paragraph (c) of this section, the presiding officer will give notice to the participants of the time and place of the hearing.
(e) The presiding officer will determine the issues to be resolved in the proceeding, may specify the time available for oral argument, and will give notice thereof to the participants. The
presiding officer may require additional information from the participants, and may convene a prehearing conference for the purpose of determining the issues or the nature of the proceeding to be held.
(f) If at any time prior to the certification of the record by the presiding officer under Rule 913 (Certification of the record), with or without a motion of a participant, the presiding officer determines that it is necessary for a full and true disclosure of the facts, the presiding officer may order that the participants be afforded the opportunity for cross-examination on any facts or issues raised in the proceeding.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 416, 50 FR 15733, Apr. 22, 1985; Order 416-A, 50 FR 36054, Sept. 5, 1985]
§ 385.910
Conduct of the hearing (Rule 910).
The presiding officer is responsible for conduct of the hearing, including the order of procedure.
§ 385.911
Burden of proof (Rule 911).
(a) The Secretary has the burden of going forward and must sustain the burden of proof with respect to disputed elements of affirmative case of the Secretary.
(b) The Commission order will be based on a preponderance of the evidence.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 416, 50 FR 15733, Apr. 22, 1985]
§ 385.912
Proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and comments (Rule 912).
(a) Within 10 days after the conclusion of the hearing, or, if no hearing is held, within 20 days after the filing of the petitioner's brief under Rule 906(b)(3) (pleadings), a participant may file with the Secretary of the Commission for the presiding officer, and serve upon the other participants proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law, comments in support thereof and any objections with respect to procedural rulings of the presiding officer.
(b) Within 10 days after the filing of proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law under paragraph (a) of this section, a participant may file, and must serve on other participants, a reply thereto.
§ 385.913
Proposed order (Rule 913).
(a) After the conclusion of the hearing and after the filings under Rule 912 (a) and (b), (proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and comments) the presiding officer will issue a decision and proposed order based on findings of fact affirming, modifying, or vacating the contested order or directing other appropriate relief. The proposed order will be based on the entire record before the presiding officer, including the record of prior proceedings certified by the Secretary.
(b) Participants may file with the Secretary of the Commission, within 15 days of issuance of the proposed order of the presiding officer, written comments on the presiding officer's decision and proposed order.
(c) Participants may file with the Secretary of the Commission, within seven days of the end of comment period prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, reply comments limited to a response to any arguments and issues raised in the written comment.
(d) The presiding officer will certify and file with the Secretary of the Commission a copy of the record in the proceedings and copies of the written and reply comments filed pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(e) Unless otherwise ordered by the Chief Administrative Law Judge, written comments and reply comments must be limited to 15 pages, doublespaced.
[Order 495, 53 FR 16408, May 9, 1988, as amended at 58 FR 1629, Jan. 12, 1994]
§ 385.914
Commission action (Rule 914).
The Commission will upon consideration of the entire record, issue a final order affirming, modifying, or vacating the contested order or directing other appropriate relief. The Commission will serve the final order on the participants.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 416, 50 FR 15733, Apr. 22, 1985]
§ 385.915
Off-the-record communications (Rule 915).
The provisions of Rule 2201 (prohibited communications and other communications requiring disclosure) apply to proceedings pursuant to this subpart, commencing at the time the Secretary issues a proposed remedial order under 10 CFR 205.192, an interim remedial order for immediate compliance under 10 CFR 205.199D, or a proposed order of disallowance under 10 CFR 205.199E.
[Order 607, 64 FR 51234, Sept. 22, 1999]
§ 385.916
Withdrawal of petition for review (Rule 916).
(a) At any time, including after a hearing has been held or convened, the petitioner may submit to the presiding officer, and serve on other participants in the proceeding, a withdrawal of the petition for review of the contested order. The presiding officer will thereupon issue, and serve the participants, an order terminating the proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart, which order will be effective 10 days after issuance.
(b) Termination of the proceeding under paragraph (a) of this section, may be appealed to the Commission, within 10 days after issuance of the termination order, except that if the Commission does not act on an appeal within 30 days, it is deemed denied. The termination order is stayed pending the appeal. If the Commission rescinds the termination order, the proceeding will continue in accordance with this subpart.
§ 385.917
Sanctions (Rule 917).
Whenever it appears to the Commission that a person is engaged or about to engage in any act or practice which constitutes or will constitute a violation of rule, regulation, or order, made or imposed by the Commission or the presiding officer under this subpart, it may bring an action in the proper court of the United States to enjoin that act or practice and to enforce compliance with the order, and upon a proper showing, a permanent or temporary injunction or decree or restraining order will be granted without bond. The Commission may transmit such evidence as may be available concerning that act or practice to the Attorney General, who may institute the necessary criminal proceedings.

# Subpart J—Commission Review of Adjustment Request Denials
§ 385.1001
Scope (Rule 1001).
(a)
Applicability.
This subpart applies to proceedings of the Commission held in accordance with section 504(b) of the Department of Energy Organization Act, 42 U.S.C. 719(b), to review orders issued by the Secretary of Energy pursuant to section 504(a) of the Department of Energy Organization Act denying, in whole or in part, requests for adjustments.
(b)
Relationship to other rules.
When a provision of this subpart is inconsistent with a provision of any other subpart of this part, the former provision controls.
§ 385.1002
Definitions (Rule 1002).
For purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Commission
includes an officer or employee designated as presiding officer in a proceeding under this subpart.
(b)
Petitioner
means a person who is aggrieved or adversely affected by a contested order, as defined in this section, and who requests a review, pursuant to this subpart, by the Commission of the denial by the Secretary.
(c)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy or his delegate.
(d)
Contested order
means the decision or order issued by the Secretary denying, in whole or in part, a request for adjustment.
(e)
Participant
means, as appropriate, the petitioner, the Secretary, or an intervener.
§ 385.1003
Request for nondisclosure of information (Rule 1003).
(a) For purposes of this section, nondisclosure means nondisclosure except to the participants in the proceedings and under the conditions as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) If a person filing under this subpart claims that some or all of the information contained in a document is exempt from the mandatory public disclosure requirements of the Freedom of
Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), is information referred to in 18 U.S.C. 1905, or is otherwise exempt by law from public disclosure, the person:
(1) Will request the presiding officer not to disclose such information, except to the participants in the proceedings and under the conditions as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, which request the person must serve upon the participants in the proceedings;
(2) Will file, together with the document, a second copy of the document from which has been deleted the information for which the person requests nondisclosure and must indicate in the original document that the original document is confidential or contains confidential information;
(3) If the information is claimed to come within the exception in 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), for trade secrets and commercial or financial information, it must include a statement specifying why the information is privileged or confidential;
(4) If the information for which nondisclosure is requested is not within the exception in 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), it must include a statement specifying the justification for nondisclosure.
(c) If the person filing a document does not submit a second copy of the document from which the appropriate information has been deleted, the presiding officer may assume that there is no objection to public disclosure of the document in its entirety.
(d) If information is submitted in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the information will not be disclosed except as provided in the Freedom of Information Act, in accordance with Part 388 of this subchapter and upon request in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, to participants in the proceeding under the restrictions that the participants may not use or disclose the information except in the context of the proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart and that the participants must return all copies of the information at the conclusion of the proceeding to the person who submitted the information under paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) At any time, a participant may request the presiding officer to direct a person submitting information under paragraph (b) of this section to provide that information to the participant requesting the information under this paragraph. The presiding officer will so direct if the participant requesting the information agrees:
(1) Not to use or disclose the information except in the context of the proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart; and
(2) To return all copies of the information, at the conclusion of the proceeding, to the person submitting the information under paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) At any time, a participant may request the presiding officer to direct that the complete record of prior proceedings, including information determined by the Secretary to be exempt from disclosure, be made available to that participant. The presiding officer will so direct if the participant requesting the complete record agrees:
(1) Not to use or disclose the information determined to be exempt except in the context of the proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart, and
(2) To return all copies of the information determined to be exempt to the presiding officer at the conclusion of the proceeding.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 422, 50 FR 21600, May 28, 1985]
§ 385.1004
Commencement of proceedings (Rule 1004).
(a) A petitioner commences proceedings, pursuant to this subpart, by filing with the Commission and serving upon the Secretary and any other participants in prior proceedings on the contested order a petition for review, which must contain:
(1) A copy of the decision or order denying, in whole or in part, request for adjustment (the contested order); and
(2) A complete statement of the petitioner's objections factual or legal to the contested order, including references to all authorities upon which the petitioner relies including but not limited to regulations, rulings, interpretations, and decisions on exceptions and appeals issued by the Department or its predecessor agencies and precedents established by the Commission.
(b) A petition for review must be filed within 30 days of issuance by the Secretary of the order to be contested pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Each petition for review filed with the Secretary of the Commission must be accompanied by the fee prescribed by § 381.304 of this chapter.
(d) Upon receiving a petition for review and the fee required by paragraph (c), of this section, the Commission or its designee will designate a presiding officer for the proceedings.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 395, 49 FR 35357, Sept. 7, 1984]
§ 385.1005
Replies (Rule 1005).
(a)
By the Secretary.
Within 20 days of service of the petition for review, the Secretary will file with the Commission and serve on the petitioners and the other participants in prior proceedings on the contested order, a reply to the petition for review stating fully his or her position supported by arguments to the petition for review.
(b)
By other participants.
A person who participated in prior proceedings on the contested order may be a participant in the proceedings pursuant to this subpart and may make filings and submittals as determined by the presiding officer.
(c)
By interveners.
A person who was denied the opportunity to participate in prior proceedings on the contested order or who is aggrieved or adversely affected by the contested order may move to intervene in accordance with Rule 214 (intervention). In order that the motion be granted, the movant must show, as appropriate, that denial of participation in prior proceedings was wrongful or why he or she is aggrieved or adversely affected by the contested order. If the presiding officer grants the motion, the person submitting the motion to intervene may make filings and submittals as determined by the presiding officer.
(d) A participant may request interim relief in a proceeding pursuant to this subpart.
(e) The presiding officer may require such other filings by the participants as he or she deems necessary in the conduct of the proceedings.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 422, 50 FR 21600, May 28, 1985]
§ 385.1006
Request for hearing (Rule 1006).
A participant may file with the Commission and serve on the other participants a request for hearing, which will be deemed granted. Such request must be filed concurrently with participant's first pleading.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 422, 50 FR 21600, May 28, 1985]
§ 385.1007
Presiding officer (Rule 1007).
(a) The presiding officer will determine the issues to be resolved in the proceeding and will give notice thereof to the participants. The presiding officer may require additional information from the participants and convene a prehearing conference for the purpose of determining the issues to be considered at a hearing, if one is to be held. The presiding officer may also specify the time available for oral argument and determine the nature of the hearing to be held.
(b) The presiding officer may determine, upon request by a participant, whether to permit the participant to raise new facts or issues not raised in prior proceedings on the contested order. Such a request may be granted if the facts or issues are facts or issues that:
(1)(i) Were not known and could not, with the exercise of due care, have been known to the participant at the time they could have been raised in prior proceedings; or
(ii) Are facts or issues that the participant was not permitted to raise in prior proceedings on the contested order due to an adverse procedural ruling alleged to be erroneous; and
(2) Are necessary for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(c) The petitioner must file a request to raise new facts or issues simultaneously with its petition for review. The Secretary must file such a request simultaneously with its reply to the petition for review. A third party must
make such a request by the filing deadline set by the presiding officer.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 422, 50 FR 21600, May 28, 1985]
§ 385.1008
Hearings (Rule 1008).
As soon as practicable, after receiving any request for hearing and all the pleadings under Rules 1004 (commencement of proceedings) and 1005 (replies), the presiding officer will give notice to the participants as to the time and place of the hearing.
§ 385.1009
Proof (Rule 1009).
(a) A participant seeking relief from the Secretary's denial of a request for adjustment has the burden of demonstrating the participant's entitlement to the relief sought.
(b) Relief will be granted under this subpart if a participant demonstrates, by a preponderance of the evidence, that such relief is warranted.
§ 385.1010
Certification of the record (Rule 1010).
The presiding officer will certify and file with the Office of the Secretary of the Commission, for the Commission, a copy of the record in the proceeding.
[Order 422, 50 FR 21600, May 28, 1985]
§ 385.1011
Final order (Rule 1011).
The Commission will issue a final order, affirming, modifying or vacating the contested order or directing other appropriate relief.
§ 385.1012
Off-the-record communications (Rule 1012).
The provisions of Rule 2201 (prohibited communications and other communications requiring disclosure) apply to proceedings pursuant to this subpart, commencing at the time a petitioner files a petition for review under Rule 1004 (commencement of proceedings).
[Order 607, 64 FR 51234, Sept. 22, 1999]
§ 385.1013
Attachments to pleadings (Rule 1013).
(a) Each party will file, as an appendix to each pleading which cites documents in the record developed in the prior proceedings on the adjustment request, one copy of each such document in its entirety and, if such document contains information exempt from public disclosure pursuant to rule 1003, a second copy of such document with such information deleted. The top of the first page of each such document will contain the word “PUBLIC” or “NON-PUBLIC,” to indicate whether it contains exempt information.
(b) One copy of the PUBLIC and NON-PUBLIC versions must be served on counsel for the petitioner and/or the Secretary, and one copy of the PUBLIC version must be served on counsel for each other participant separately represented unless the conditions of Rule 1003 are met, in which situation such counsel must be served with copies of both versions.
(c) In compiling appendices, the parties will include only documents specifically cited and relied upon in their pleadings. In light of the fact that the Commission always has access to the Secretary's entire administrative record, the parties must not include irrelevant or repetitive documents in the appendices.
[Order 422, 50 FR 21601, May 28, 1985]

# Subpart K—Petitions for Adjustments Under the NGPA
§ 385.1101
Applicability (Rule 1101).
(a)
Proceedings to which applicable.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this subpart applies to proceedings of the Commission held in accordance with section 502(c) of the NGPA to provide for adjustments of:
(1) Commission rules, and
(2) Commission orders having the applicability and effect of a rule as defined in section 551(4) of title 5 of the United States Code (5 U.S.C. 551(4)) and issued under the NGPA, except orders issued under sections 301, 302, and 303 of the NGPA.
(b) This subpart does not apply to:
(1) Proceedings wherein the Commission by order grants an adjustment on its own motion or;
(2) Proceedings for which the Commission by order waives the provision of this subpart.
(c)
Relationship to other rules.
(1) Where a provision of this subpart is inconsistent with a provision in another subpart of this part, the former provision controls.
(2) When provisions of other subparts of this part require Commission action, such provisions as applied under this subpart shall be deemed to require staff action. This subpart does not require a hearing to which subpart E applies.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 478, 52 FR 28467, July 30, 1987]
§ 385.1102
Definitions (Rule 1102).
For purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Adjustment
means an order issued by Staff under Rule 1109 (orders):
(1) Granting relief from an order or rule issued by the Commission under the NGPA,
(i) Including exceptions, exemptions, modification, and rescissions of rules and orders have the effect of rule as defined in section 551 of title 5 of the United States Code (5 U.S.C. 551(4)) and issued under the NGPA; but
(ii) Excluding requests for just and reasonable rates under sections 104, 106, and 109 of the NGPA; and
(2) Granting an exemption, in whole or in part, for incrementally priced industrial boiler fuel facilities from section 201 of the NGPA, under the authority of section 206(d) of the NGPA and § 282.206 (industrial boiler fuel facilities exemption);
(b)
Petitioner
means a person who files a petition for adjustment under paragraph (c) of this section;
(c)
Petition
means a petition for adjustment filed under Rule 1103 (commencement of adjustment proceedings);
(d)
NGPA
means the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978;
(e)
Party
means, with respect to a particular petition for adjustment, the person making the petition, and intervener, or a person who has moved to intervene but whose motion has not been granted or denied under Rule 1105(b) (intervention in adjustment proceedings).
(f)
Staff
means the Director of the Office of Producer and Pipeline Regulation, or a person who is designated by the Director and who is an employee of the Commission.
§ 385.1103
Commencement of proceeding (Rule 1103).
A person commences a proceeding for an adjustment by filing a petition for adjustment with the Commission.
§ 385.1104
Initial petition (Rule 1104).
(a)
Content.
(1) The petition must contain:
(i) A full and complete statement of the relevant facts, including the documentary support pertaining to the circumstances, act or transaction that is the subject of the petition;
(ii) A complete statement of the business reasons why the relief should be granted and the business consequences that will result if the relief is denied; and
(iii) A statement specifying how the denial of relief will cause the applicant to suffer special hardship, inequity, or unfair distribution of burdens.
(2) The petition must contain a complete statement of the legal basis of the relief requested including citations to authorities relied upon to support the petition.
(3) The petition must specify the exact nature of the relief sought.
(4) The certificate of service required under Rule 2010(h) (certificate of service) must indicate the names and addresses of all persons served.
(5) The petition must include a form of notice suitable for publication in the
Federal Register
in accordance with the specifications in § 385.203(d) of this part.
(6) The petition must be accompanied by the fee prescribed in § 381.401 of this chapter or by a petition for waiver pursuant to § 381.106 of this chapter.
(b)
Service.
(1) The petitioner must serve a copy of the petition, or a copy from which confidential information has been deleted in accordance with Rule 1112 (requests for confidential treatment) on each person who is reasonably ascertainable by the petitioner as a person who may suffer direct and measurable economic impact if the relief is granted.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if a petitioner determines that compliance with such paragraph of this section would be impracticable, the petitioner must:
(i) Comply with the requirements of such paragraph with regard to those persons whom it is reasonable and practicable to serve; and
(ii) Include with the petition a description of the persons or class or classes of persons to whom notice was not sent.
(3) Staff may require the petitioner to provide alternate or additional service and will cause notice of the application to be published in the
Federal Register.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 394, 49 FR 35365, Sept. 7, 1984; Order 647, 69 FR 32440, June 10, 2004]
§ 385.1105
Intervention (Rule 1105).
(a) A motion to intervene in an adjustment proceeding, in conformity with Rule 214 (intervention) must be filed within 15 days after publication in the
Federal Register
of notice of the petition for adjustment.
(b) A motion to intervene is granted unless it is denied by staff within 75 days after the day on which it was filed.
§ 385.1106
Other filings (Rule 1106).
(a)
Interveners.
Responses to the petition must be filed at the time the motion to intervene is filed.
(b)
Petitioner.
The petitioner may respond to filings of another party within 15 days after service of such filings. Amended pleadings may be filed under Rule 215 (amendments) if the petitioner discovers facts unavailable at the time the initial petition was filed, or if such pleadings are requested or permitted by Staff under Rule 1107 (evaluations).
§ 385.1107
Evaluations (Rule 1107).
(a) Staff will consider the filings made in connection with the petition for adjustment. Staff may also consider information received under paragraph (b) of this section. If Staff obtains information under paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section and relies upon such information, the petitioner will be advised of such information and will be given 15 days to respond to such information.
(b)(1) Staff may initiate an investigation of any statement in a petition and use in its evaluation any relevant fact obtained in such an investigation.
(2) Staff may request additional information from the petitioner.
(3) Staff may solicit and accept submissions from interveners or third persons relevant to the petition.
(4) Staff may consider information obtained in informal conferences held under Rule 1111 (adjustment conferences).
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 24-C, 50 FR 21596, May 28, 1985]
§ 385.1108
Criteria (Rule 1108).
(a) Staff will grant a petition where there are sufficient facts to make a determination on the merits and where Staff determines that an adjustment is necessary to prevent or alleviate:
(1) Special hardship;
(2) Inequity; or
(3) An unfair distribution of burdens.
(b) When there are not sufficient facts to make a determination on the merits, the Staff may dismiss the petition without prejudice; except, that when Staff has requested additional material information under Rule 1107 (adjustment evaluations) of this section and the petitioner has failed to provide the requested information, Staff may deny the petition if the requested information was reasonably available to the petitioner.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 24-C, 50 FR 21596, May 28, 1985]
§ 385.1109
Orders (Rule 1109).
(a) Staff will issue a decision and an order granting or denying the petition in whole or in part. The order will articulate the basis for the decision, noting any dispute with the factual assertions of the petitioner.
(b) In addition to service otherwise required under this subpart, Staff will serve the decision and order on the persons who sought and were denied an opportunity to participate in the proceeding under this subpart.
(c) If Staff fails to issue an order granting or denying the petition for adjustment within the determination period, the petitioner may treat the application as having been denied and may, within 30 days after the close of the determination period, request review thereof as prescribed in Rule 1110(a) (review of denials). For purposes of this paragraph, “determination period” means the 150 days commencing with the filing of the petition, unless Staff for good cause extends such period.
(d) An order of Staff issued under paragraph (a) of this section granting an adjustment, in whole or in part, is final 30 days after it is issued, unless, during such 30-day period:
(1) A petition for review is filed under subpart J of this subchapter in accordance with Rule 1110(a) (review of denials) in which case the order is final when the review process under subpart J has been completed; or
(2) The Commission directs that the order be reviewed under subpart J in accordance with Rule 1110(b), in which case the order is final when the review process under subpart J has been completed unless the Commission expressly states that the order shall be effective pending review proceeding.
§ 385.1110
Review of initial decision and order for adjustment (Rule 1110).
(a)
General rule.
(1) Within 30 days after the issuance by Staff of an order granting or denying, in whole or in part, a petition for adjustment relief under this subpart, a person may file a petition for Commission review of that order in accordance with subpart J of this subchapter, if the person:
(i) Is aggrieved or adversely affected by that order; and
(ii) Participated, or sought and was denied an opportunity to participate, in the proceeding under this subpart.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the provisions of subpart J other than Rule 1013 (attachments to pleadings) shall apply to Commission review of both grants and denials of adjustment petitions under this subpart.
(i)
Contested order
in subpart J means the order issued by Staff granting or denying, in whole or in part, a petition for adjustment under this subpart.
(ii) “Staff” is substituted for “Secretary” in subpart J. With respect to review of an order denying a petition for adjustment under this subpart, Staff may participate in the proceeding in the same manner prescribed for the Secretary in Rule 1005 (replies in reviews of adjustment denials). With respect to review of an order granting a petition for adjustment under this subpart, Staff may not participate in the proceeding except to the extent necessary to file the list identifying the documents in the record as prescribed in paragraph (a)(2)(iii). With respect to review of an order granting in part and denying in part a petition for adjustment under this subpart, Staff may participate as prescribed in Rule 1005(a)(1) (replies), only if a petition for review has been filed which specifically seeks review of the portion of the order denying the petition for adjustment.
(iii) Within 15 days of service of the petition for review, Staff must file with the Commission a list identifying each document in the record developed in the prior proceedings on the contested order, who filed the document, and the date it was filed.
(3) A motion to intervene under Rule 1005(c) (interventions in adjustment proceedings) may be filed only by a person who sought and was denied an opportunity to participate, in the proceeding under this section. A person who did not file a motion to intervene in the Staff proceeding may file a motion for late intervention under Rule 214(d) (grant of late intervention).
(4) There is no exhaustion of administrative remedies until a request for review is filed under subpart J in accordance with this section and the review process under subpart J is completed by the issuance of an order granting or denying, in whole or in part, the relief requested.
(b)
Review initiated by the Commission.
Within 30 days after the issuance by Staff of an order granting, in whole or in part, a petition for adjustment relief under this subpart, the Commission may direct that the order be reviewed in a proceeding which, insofar as practicable, will conform to proceedings under subpart J. The order directing
such review will specify the manner in which such proceeding will be conducted and the extent to which subpart J apply.
(c)
Separation of functions.
Any person who participated in the proceeding to review the grant or denial of that adjustment under this Rule as a witness or counsel may not advise the Commission concerning the review of the grant or denial of that adjustment.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982; 48 FR 786, Jan. 7, 1983, as amended by Order 24-C, 50 FR 21596, May 28, 1985]
§ 385.1111
Conferences (Rule 1111).
Staff may direct that a conference be convened. The conference will be conducted by Staff in accordance with procedures Staff determines will most expeditiously further the purpose of the conference. A conference will be convened only after actual notice of the time, place and nature of the conference is provided to the parties. All parties may attend the conference. However, if a party wishes to present confidential information at the conference, Staff may exclude the other parties from that part of the conference when the confidential information is presented.
§ 385.1112
Requests for confidential treatment (Rule 1112).
(a) If a person filing a document under this subpart claims that some or all of the information contained in a document is exempt from the mandatory disclosure requirements of the Freedom of Information Act, or is otherwise exempt by law from public disclosure, that person may request confidential treatment of such information. At the time request is made for confidential treatment, the person must submit a copy of the document which contains the confidential information and two copies of the document which exclude the information for which confidential treatment is requested. The request for confidential treatment must describe the information deleted and specify the grounds for the claim for confidential treatment. The service requirements of Rule 2010 (service) are deemed satisfied if a copy of the document with the confidential information deleted is served.
(b) If a determination to disclose the information is made under part 388 (public information and requests), the person who has requested confidential treatment will be given notice thereof and will be afforded no less than 10 days to respond to such determination before the information is disclosed.
§ 385.1113
Interim relief (Rule 1113).
(a) The petitioner may at any time file a request for interim relief in a proceeding under this subpart, setting forth the legal and factual basis for the request. Service of such request must comply with the service requirements set forth in Rule 1104(b) (initial petition of adjustment request) and must be made on each person described in such rule as well as on any other party to the proceeding.
(b) The grounds for granting interim relief are:
(1)(i) A showing that irreparable injury will result in the event the interim relief is denied; and
(ii) A showing that denial of the interim relief requested will result in a more immediate special hardship or inequity to the person requesting the interim relief than the consequences that would result to other persons if the interim relief were granted; or
(2) A showing that it will be in the public interest to grant the interim relief.
(c) A party may within 10 days after the filing of the request for interim relief file a reply to the request for interim relief.
(d) Staff may request a written statement of the views of a party regarding whether the interim relief should be granted and may convene an expedited conference on the request for interim relief.
(e) If Staff has not granted the request for interim relief within 30 days after it is filed, the request is denied.
(f)(1) Subject to paragraph (f)(2) of this section, Staff will issue an order granting or denying the request for interim relief and will notify the parties. Any grant of interim relief is subject to further modification in the order issued under Rule 1109 (orders).
(2) The Commission may, on its own motion, at any time revoke, modify,
rescind, stay or take any other appropriate action concerning the order granting interim relief.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 24-C, 50 FR 21596, May 28, 1985]
§ 385.1114
Motions (Rule 1114).
A party may file a motion at any time. Motions must set forth the ruling or relief requested and must state the grounds therefor and the statutory or other authority relied upon. Staff will rule on all motions.
§ 385.1115
Procedural rulings (Rule 1115).
Staff may make any procedural rule or provide any procedural relief.
§ 385.1116
Appeals (Rule 1116).
All actions under this subpart are taken by Staff, except with respect to requests for public information under part 388. Except as provided in Rule 1110 (review of initial adjustment decision) of this section, there are no appeals to the Commission from Staff action taken under this section.
§ 385.1117
Petition for adjustment treated as request for interpretation (Rule 1117).
(a) Staff may, if appropriate, treat a petition filed under Rule 1103 (petition for adjustment) as a request for an interpretation under section 502(c) of the NGPA, or rule or order issued under that Act.
(b) If the Staff exercises its discretion under paragraph (a) of this section to treat a petition for adjustment as a request for an interpretation, then:
(1) Staff will notify the parties to the proceeding that the petition is being treated as a request for an interpretation under Rule 1901; and
(2) The time limits in this section are stayed pending issuance of the interpretation.
(c) After the interpretation is issued, if the petitioner wishes to reinstate the adjustment proceeding, the petitioner may do so by notifying the Commission in writing that the petition should be reinstated.
Subpart L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Cooperative Procedure with State Commissions
§ 385.1301
Policy (Rule 1301).
(a) The Federal Power and Natural Gas Acts, sections 209 and 17, respectively, authorize cooperation between the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the State commissions of the several States in the administration of said Acts, which include authorization for:
(1) Reference of any matter arising in the administration of these Acts to a board to be composed of a member or members from a State or States affected, or to be affected, by the particular matters pending before the Commission;
(2) Conferences with State commissions regarding the relationship between rate structures, costs, accounts, charges, practices, classifications, and regulations of public utilities or natural gas companies subject to the jurisdiction of such State commissions and of the Commission; and
(3) Joint hearings with State commissions in connection with any matter with respect to which the Commission is authorized to act.
(b) The matters that should be the subject of a conference referred to a board, or heard at a joint hearing of State commissions and the Commission, obviously, cannot be determined in advance. It is understood, therefore, that the Commission or any State commission will freely suggest cooperation with respect to any proceeding or matter affecting any public utility or natural gas company subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission and of a State commission, and concerning which it is believed that cooperation will be in the public interest.
§ 385.1302
Notice (Rule 1302).
(a)
By Commission.
(1) Whenever there is instituted before the Commission any proceeding under either the Federal Power Act or the Natural Gas Act, the State commission or commissions of the State or States affected thereby will be given notice thereof immediately by the Commission. As deemed necessary for an understanding of the subject matter, each such notice will
be supplemented by copies of applications, complaints, petitions, or orders instituting proceedings. Each such notice given to a State commission will request that the Commission be notified within a reasonable time whether the proceeding is deemed one that should be considered under the cooperative provisions of this subpart, and, if so, to advise the Commission as to the nature of its interest in the matter, and further, to specify whether it desires a conference, the creation of a board, or a joint or concurrent hearing, as defined in this subpart and the reasons for such request.
(2) Any commission suggesting some form of such cooperative procedure should also state whether there is pending, or will be pending before it, a proceeding in which a concurrent hearing might appropriately be held and whether its proposal is for such hearing covering such proceeding and the proceeding pending before the Commission.
(3) A State commission recommending to the Commission reference of a proceeding to a board, under either the Federal Power Act or the Natural Gas Act, should state with fullness the reasons which led it to believe that such reference is desirable and in the public interest.
(4) Upon the receipt from a State commission of a communication suggesting cooperation, the Commission will consider the same, and may confer with the commission making the request and with other interested commissions, if any, in such manner as may be most suitable, and, if cooperation in the manner proposed, or in any other manner, appears to be practicable and desirable, will so advise each interested State commission, and will invite it to participate therein.
(b)
By State commission.
(1) Each State commission should, in like manner, notify the Commission of any proceeding instituted before it the subject matter of which is also subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission, or in which it believes the Commission is interested. Such notice should be supplemented by copies of applications, petitions, complaints, or orders instituting proceedings which may be necessary to an understanding of the subject matter. Such notice should include the suggestions which the State commission may wish to make concerning cooperative procedure.
(2) Upon receipt of such notice, the Commission will consider the same and will promptly notify the State commission whether or not in its opinion cooperation in the manner proposed, or in any other manner, appears to be practicable and desirable. The Commission is free to propose cooperative procedures whether or not such proposal of cooperation has been made by the State commission first giving notice of the proceeding.
(c)
Commission or State commissions to invite participation in cooperative procedure.
In the event that cooperation in a particular proceeding has been determined upon, the Commission or a State commission before which the proceeding is pending will so advise each interested State commission and will invite it to take part therein.
§ 385.1303
Conferences (Rule 1303).
Inasmuch as experience has proved that informal conferences are the means most often used to enable commissions to work together to promote good regulation, affording means whereby common understandings may be reached, and the imposition of inconsistent or conflicting regulations upon companies subject to both Federal and State control may be avoided and means whereby State commissions may secure the assistance in State regulatory work which sections 209 and 17, respectively, of the Federal Power and Natural Gas Acts authorize the Commission to extend, any commission, Federal or State, should always feel free to suggest a conference to another commission, concerning any matter of regulation subject to the jurisdiction of either, with respect to which it is believed that a cooperative conference may be in the public interest. The commission desiring a conference upon any such matter should notify other interested commissions without delay, and thereupon the Commission or a State commission, as may be agreed, will promptly arrange for a conference in which all interested commissions will be invited to be represented.
§ 385.1304
Procedure governing matters referred to a board (Rule 1304).
(a) It is believed that the statutory provisions of sections 209 and 17, respectively, of the Federal Power and Natural Gas Acts, for the reference of a proceeding to a board constituted as therein provided, were designed for use in unusual cases, and as a means of relief to the Commission when it might find itself unable to hear and determine cases before it, in the usual course, without undue delay.
(b) Whenever the Commission, either upon its own motion or upon the suggestion of a State commission or at the request of any interested party, determines that it is desirable to refer a matter arising in the administration either of the Natural Gas Act or Part II of the Federal Power Act, to a board to be composed of a member or members from the State or States affected or to be affected by such matter, the procedure will be as follows: The Commission will send a request to each interested State commission to nominate a specified number of members to serve on such board. Whenever more than one State is involved, the representation of each State concerned shall be equal, unless one or more of the States affected chooses to waive such right of equal representation. The Commission will specify the functions to be performed by such board in each instance. When the member or members of any board have been nominated and appointed in accordance with the provisions of either section 209 of the Federal Power Act or section 17 of the Natural Gas Act, the Commission will issue an order referring the particular matter to such board, and such order will fix the time and place of hearing, define the “force and effect” which an action of the board will have, the manner in which the proceedings will be conducted, and specify the allowances to be made for the expense of the members of the board. As far as applicable, the rules of practice and procedure as from time to time adopted or prescribed by the Commission will govern such board. The board will have authority to adjourn the hearing from day to day, subpoena witnesses, rule on the relevancy, competency, and materiality of evidence, and will, after hearing all interested parties, submit its report to the Commission.
§ 385.1305
Joint and concurrent hearings (Rule 1305).
(a) The term “joint hearing” used in sections 209 and 17, respectively, of the Federal Power and Natural Gas Acts is understood to cover any hearing in which members of the Commission and members of one or more State commissions may sit together in a proceeding pending before one such commission, whether or not a proceeding or proceedings involving similar or corresponding issues be pending before any other commission.
(b) Two different types of proceedings have been called “joint hearings”. One is that type of proceeding where members of one or more State commissions sit with members of the Commission for information or in an advisory capacity. The State commissioners in such case do not develop a record for their respective commissions and may not, at their own discretion, make a recommendation to the Commission. The other type of joint hearing is often referred to as a “concurrent hearing”. Under this procedure the Commission and one or more State commissions sit together to hear and jointly make a record upon a matter over which all of the participating commissions have jurisdiction and responsibility for action.
(c) The Commission or any State commission or commissions should feel free to suggest or request a joint or concurrent hearing at any time. It is believed that the concurrent hearing is the type of cooperative hearing which is likely to be most useful and effective.
(d) Whenever a concurrent hearing has been agreed upon by the Commission and one or more State commissions, the procedure will be:
(1) Each commission will designate the representative or representatives of such commission to sit at such concurrent hearing, and will designate the representative who will be the presiding officer for such commission.
(2) It will be understood that participation in such concurrent hearing will in no way affect the complete control by each commission of the proceeding before it. It will be understood, also,
that participation in either a joint or concurrent hearing will in no way preclude any commission from causing to be presented in any such case pertinent evidence with respect to matters in issue.
(3) The representative designated by the Commission will be the presiding officer to announce rulings with respect to which there is no disagreement; and such rulings will be considered concurrent rulings. However, the presiding officer for any commission which does not concur in any ruling may announce a divergent ruling and such divergent ruling, whether with respect to the admissibility of evidence or any other matter, will be considered the ruling for his or her commission.
(4) The record of the concurrent hearing will be the record of each commission participating, except that, if divergent rulings are made, the rulings will be reported so as to separate and distinguish clearly the record of the respective participating commissions and the evidence admitted in each record, in accordance with the rulings of the respective commissions. If, in any proceeding, the ruling of one presiding officer has the effect of admitting any voluminous exhibit or testimony which is excluded by the ruling of another presiding officer, the taking of such evidence, whenever possible, will be deferred until after the completion of the proceedings which can be conducted under concurrent rulings. When such testimony is taken, the transcript of such evidence will be made available to the participating commissions, if desired.
(5) In all respects concerning which there is no divergence of ruling, the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the rules of practice and procedure prescribed by the Commission, subject to the express understanding that each participating State commission will control its own record and make its own rulings as to the admissibility of evidence and as to other matters affecting its proceedings, and will make its own separate final decision or order therein.
(e) Before either the Commission or a participating State commission will enter any order or orders in a concurrent proceeding, opportunity will be afforded for conference between the Commission and the State commissions participating.
(f) Whenever a joint hearing other than a concurrent hearing is agreed upon, the commissioners which take part therein will agree upon the procedure to be followed in such hearing in advance of the opening of the same. With respect to any concurrent hearing, a special agreement may be made by the commissions taking part therein for a procedure or action differing from that outlined in this plan.
(g) Cooperation between two or more commissions in a concurrent hearing will preclude either from taking the position of an advocate or a litigant. If a commission wishes to take such a position, it will not be a cooperating participant in that proceeding. In such situation the appropriate method of procedure will be intervention under Rule 214.
§ 385.1306
Intervention by State commissions (Rule 1306).
Any interested State commission may intervene in any proceeding before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, as provided in Rule 214.

# Subpart N—Oil Pipeline Proceedings

# Authority:
Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 551-557; Department of Energy Organization Act, 42 U.S.C. 7101-7352, E.O. 12,009, 3 CFR 142 (1978); Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U.S.C. 1,
et seq.
§ 385.1401
Applicability (Rule 1401).
(a) This subpart applies to oil pipeline proceedings.
(b) If any provision of this subpart is inconsistent with any provision of another subpart of this part, the provision of this subpart governs and the provision of the other subpart is inapplicable to the extent of the inconsistency.
[Order 312, 48 FR 29479, June 27, 1983]
§ 385.1402
Subscriber lists (Rule 1402).
(a) Not later than December 31 of each year, an oil pipeline must request, in writing, each of its subscribers and each person who has been served under
any of its tariffs during the preceding twelve months to notify the pipeline as to whether the subscriber or person wishes to be included on the subscriber list for any of the oil pipeline's integrated pipeline systems.
(b) The oil pipeline must immediately add to the specified subscriber list any subscriber or person which responds in writing within 30 days of receipt of the oil pipeline request and which indicates in that response that it wishes to be included on the specified list.
[Order 312, 48 FR 29479, June 27, 1983]
§ 385.1403
Petitions seeking institution of rulemaking proceedings (Rule 1404).
Any person may file a petition requesting the Commission to institute a proceeding for the purpose of issuing statements, rules, or regulations of general applicability and significance designed to implement or interpret law, or to formulate general policy for future effect. No reply to such a petition may be filed. Whether a proceeding shall be instituted as requested is within the discretion of the Commission and the ruling on the petition will be final. In the event a rulemaking proceeding is instituted by the Commission, the procedure to be employed for the taking of evidence or the receipt of views and comments will be designated by Commission order.
[Order 276, at 49 FR 21705, May 23, 1984. Redesignated by Order 606, 64 FR 44405, Aug. 16, 1999]

# Subpart O—Procedures for the Assessment of Civil Penalties Under Section 31 of the Federal Power Act
§ 385.1501
Scope (Rule 1501).
The rules in this subpart apply to and govern proceedings for the assessment of civil penalties pursuant to section 31 of the Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. 823b.
§ 385.1502
Persons subject to civil penalties (Rule 1502).
(a) Any licensee or permittee under the Federal Power Act, or exemptee from any requirement of Part I of the Federal Power Act, may be subject to civil penalties; and
(b) Any person who must have a license under, or exemption from, the Federal Power Act, but does not, may be subject to civil penalties.
§ 385.1503
Actions subjecting persons to civil penalties (Rule 1503).
(a) The actions that subject persons to civil penalties are violations of:
(1) Any rule or regulation issued under Part I of the Federal Power Act;
(2) Any term or condition of a license or permit issued under Part I of the Federal Power Act or an exemption issued from any provision of Part I of the Federal Power Act;
(3) Any compliance order issued under section 31(a) of the Federal Power Act; or
(4) Any requirement of Part I of the Federal Power Act.
(b) Only actions occurring on or after October 16, 1986, may subject a person to civil penalties.
§ 385.1504
Maximum civil penalty (Rule 1504).
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Commission may assess a civil penalty of up to $28,618 for each day that the violation continues.
(b) No civil penalty may be assessed where a license or exemption is ordered revoked.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 826, 81 FR 43941, July 6, 2016; Order 834, 82 FR 8139, Jan. 24, 2017; Order 839, 83 FR 1552, Jan. 12, 2018; Order 853, 84 FR 968, Feb. 1, 2019; Order 865, 85 FR 2018, Jan. 14, 2020; Order 875, 86 FR 8133, Feb. 4, 2021; Order 882, 87 FR 2037, Jan. 13, 2022; Order 886, 88 FR 1991, Jan. 12, 2023; Order 903, 89 FR 1808, Jan. 11, 2024; Order 906, 90 FR 2932, Jan. 14, 2025]
§ 385.1505
Determination of proposed penalty amount (Rule 1505).
(a) In determining the amount of a proposed penalty, the Commission will consider the nature and seriousness of the violation, and the efforts of the licensee, exemptee, permittee or one who should possess appropriate authority but does not, to remedy the violation in a timely manner.
(b) In making its determination under paragraph (a), the Commission will consider the following factors:
(1) Whether the person had actual knowledge of the violation;
(2) Whether the person had constructive knowledge of the violation deemed to be possessed by a reasonable individual acting under similar circumstances;
(3) Whether the person has a history of previous violations;
(4) Whether the violation caused loss of life or injury to persons;
(5) Whether economic benefits were derived because of the violation;
(6) Whether the violation caused damage to property or the environment;
(7) Whether the violation endangered persons, property or the environment;
(8) Whether there were timely remedial efforts;
(9) Whether there were untimely remedial efforts;
(10) Whether there were no remedial efforts; and
(11) Whether there are any other pertinent considerations.
§ 385.1506
Notice of proposed penalty (Rule 1506).
(a) Before issuing an order assessing a civil penalty under this subpart against any person, the Commission will provide to the person notice of the proposed penalty.
(b) The notice of proposed penalty will:
(1) Include the amount of the proposed penalty;
(2) Include a statement of the material facts constituting the alleged violation; and
(3)(i) Inform the person of the opportunity to elect in writing within 30 days of receipt of the notice to have the procedures of Rule 1509 (in lieu of those of Rule 1508) apply with respect to the assessment, or,
(ii) If a final compliance order is issued under section 31(a) of the Federal Power Act, no notice of election will be provided for a violation of, or a failure or refusal to comply with, the final order.
§ 385.1507
Election of procedures and answer (Rule 1507).
(a) If the respondent receiving the notice of proposed penalty wishes to have the procedures of Rule 1509 apply, then the respondent must file with the Commission, within 30 days of receipt of the notice, a notification of the election in accordance with subpart T, part 385 of this chapter. The notification may include an answer setting forth factual or legal reasons why the proposed assessment order should not be issued, should be reduced in amount, or should otherwise be modified. If a person fails to file an answer within the 30-day time limit, all material facts stated in the Commission's notice will be deemed admitted.
(b) Any election to have the procedures of Rule 1509 apply may not be revoked after the 30-day election period in paragraph (a) of this section, without the consent of the Commission.
§ 385.1508
Commission administrative procedures (Rule 1508).
(a) If the respondent is not entitled to an election pursuant to Rule 1506(b)(3)(ii) or does not timely elect to have the procedures of Rule 1509 apply, the Commission will commence a proceeding in accordance with the provisions of subpart E of this chapter.
(b) The Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure in part 385 of this chapter will apply, as appropriate, to any evidentiary proceeding to assess a civil penalty.
(c) An assessment order under this section shall include the administrative law judge's findings and the basis for such assessment.
§ 385.1509
District court procedures (Rule 1509).
(a) After receipt of the notification of election to apply the provisions of this section pursuant to Rule 1507, the Commission will promptly assess the penalty it deems appropriate, in accordance with Rule 1505.
(b) If the civil penalty is not paid within 60 calendar days after the assessment order is issued under paragraph (a) of this section, the General Counsel, unless otherwise directed by the Commission, will institute an action in the appropriate United States District Court for an order affirming the assessment of the civil penalty.
§ 385.1510
Modification of civil penalty (Rule 1510).
(a) The Commission may compromise, modify, or remit, with or without conditions, any civil penalty (with leave of court if necessary).
(b) In exercising its authority under paragraph (a) of this section, the Commission may consider the nature and seriousness of the violation, and the efforts of the licensee, exemptee, permittee, or one who should possess appropriate authority but does not, to remedy the violation in a timely manner.
(c) The Commission's authority to compromise, modify or remit a civil penalty may be exercised at any time prior to a final decision by the United States Court of Appeals if Rule 1508 procedures are utilized, or prior to a final decision by the United States District Court if Rule 1509 procedures are utilized.
§ 385.1511
Collection of civil penalties (Rule 1511).
If any person fails to pay a civil penalty assessment, the Commission will seek to recover the amount of the penalty plus interest in any appropriate District Court of the United States. Interest will begin to accrue on the date the Commission issues a final order under Rule 1508 or the date on which the appropriate District Court enters final judgment in favor of the Commission under Rule 1509.
[Order 502, 53 FR 32039, Aug. 23, 1988]

# Subpart P—Civil Monetary Penalty Inflation Adjustment

# Source:
Order 891, 67 FR 52412, Aug. 12, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 385.1601
Scope and purpose (Rule 1601).
The purpose of this subpart is to make inflation adjustments to the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Commission. These penalties shall be subject to review and adjustment as necessary at least every year in accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Act of 1990, as amended by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015.
[Order 826, 81 FR 43941, July 6, 2016]
§ 385.1602
Civil penalties, as adjusted (Rule 1602).
The current inflation-adjusted civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Commission are:
(a) 15 U.S.C. 3414(b)(6)(A)(i), Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978: $1,584,648 per violation, per day.
(b) 16 U.S.C. 823b(c), Federal Power Act: $28,618 per violation, per day.
(c) 16 U.S.C. 825n(a), Federal Power Act: $3,738 per violation.
(d) 16 U.S.C. 825o-1(b), Federal Power Act: $1,584,648 per violation, per day.
(e) 15 U.S.C. 717t-1, Natural Gas Act: $1,584,648 per violation, per day.
(f) 49 App. U.S.C. 6(10) (1988), Interstate Commerce Act: $1,659 per offense and $78 per day after the first day.
(g) 49 App. U.S.C. 16(8) (1988), Interstate Commerce Act: $16,590 per violation, per day.
(h) 49 App. U.S.C. 19a(k) (1988), Interstate Commerce Act: $1,659 per offense, per day.
(i) 49 App. U.S.C. 20(7)(a) (1988), Interstate Commerce Act: $1,659 per offense, per day.
[Order 906, 90 FR 2932, Jan. 14, 2025]
Subparts Q-R [Reserved]

# Subpart S—Miscellaneous
§ 385.1901
Interpretations and interpretative rules under the NGPA (Rule 1901).
(a)
Purpose and applicability
—(1)
Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to provide procedures by which:
(i) A person may seek a written interpretation from the General Counsel construing a provision of the NGPA, or clarifying a rule issued by the Commission under the NGPA; and
(ii) The Commission may publish an interpretative rule that will have general applicability and effect.
(2)
Applicability.
(i) This section applies to requests under section 502(c) of the NGPA for interpretations of the NGPA or of rules or of orders, having the applicability and effect of a rule as
defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(4), issued under the NGPA. It does not apply to orders issued under sections 301, 302, and 303 of the NGPA.
(ii) This section applies to requests for interpretations to prospective, existing or completed facts, acts, or transactions. Interpretations based on hypothetical facts, acts, or transactions will not be considered.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply.
(1)
Direct participant
means any person or legal entity who is, or plans to be an actual party in the act, transaction, or circumstance presented, and who has an immediate or direct financial interest in the act, transaction, or circumstance.
(2)
Interpretation
means a written statement of the General Counsel which applies a particular rule to a particular set of facts, acts, circumstances or transactions. In the discretion of General Counsel, the interpretation may contain a detailed factual and legal analysis, a summary of the facts or the law, or both, or it may be a conclusory statement.
(3)
Interpretative rule
means an official interpretative statement of general applicability issued by the Commission and published in the
Federal Register
that applies the NGPA or rules issued thereunder to a specific set of facts, acts, circumstances and transactions.
(4)
NGPA
means the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978.
(5)
Request
means a request for an interpretation.
(6)
Rule
means a rule or an order having the effect of a rule as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(4).
(c)
Persons who may request an interpretation.
(1) Any person who is or will be a direct participant in an act, transaction, or circumstance affected by the NGPA or a rule issued by the Commission under the NGPA may file with the Office of the General Counsel a request for an interpretation.
(2) Requests for interpretations must be addressed to the Office of the General Counsel as follows:
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Interpretations Section, Office of the General Counsel, 888 First Street, NE., Washington, D.C. 20426.
(3) Requests for interpretation under this paragraph need not be filed with the Secretary.
(d)
Content of request
—(1)
Facts.
A request for interpretation must contain a full and complete statement of the relevant and material facts pertaining to the act, transaction, or circumstance that is the subject of the request for interpretation. When the request pertains to only one step of a larger integrated transaction, the facts, circumstances, and other relevant information pertaining to the entire transaction must be included in the request.
(2)
Statement of the question.
The request must clearly designate the section of the statute, regulation, rule, or part thereof which the person making the request seeks to have interpreted and must set forth clearly and concisely the question for which an interpretation is sought. The request may also set forth a proposed answer to the question.
(3)
Analysis.
If the request proposes a particular answer:
(i) The request must set forth a legal analysis in support of the proposed answer and cite relevant authorities in support thereof.
(ii) The request must set forth the legal and business consequences which will flow from the proposed answer.
(4)
Factual statements.
(i) The request must be accompanied by a statement that to the best of the applicant's personal information, knowledge, and belief there is no untrue statement of a material or relevant fact and there is no omission of a material or relevant fact made in the request.
(ii) Any untrue statement or omission of a material or relevant fact upon which the Office of the General Counsel relied in a request for an interpretation is deemed to be a statement or entry under section 1001 of Title 18, United States Code.
(5)
Notification of other parties.
(i) A person submitting a request must specify each person who is a direct participant in the circumstance, act or transaction; must notify them in writing of the request for an interpretation; and must send them a copy of such request. Such notification and the
addresses of the persons notified must be included in a request to the General Counsel.
(ii) Each person notified pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section may submit information regarding any fact provided in the request of which it has personal knowledge, if such fact is different from the facts presented by the applicant. Such fact must be presented to the Office of the General Counsel as set forth in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(6) The request must be accompanied by the fee prescribed in § 381.405 of this chapter or by a petition for waiver pursuant to § 381.106 of this chapter.
(e)
Additional information.
The General Counsel may request additional information, documentation or legal analysis in connection with any request for any interpretation.
(f)
Referral of information.
Information submitted in a request for interpretation may be used by the Commission or its Staff in their official capacity. Any information received will be placed in a public file in the Commission's Office of Public Information.
(g)
The interpretation.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the General Counsel will provide a copy of his or her written interpretation of the NGPA or rule as applied to the act, transaction, or circumstance presented upon the person who made the request for the interpretation and upon persons named in the request as direct participants in the act, transaction, or circumstance.
(2) The General Counsel may determine not to issue an interpretation, in which case the person who made the request and direct participants as specified in the request will be notified in writing of the decision not to issue an interpretation, and the reason for the decision.
(3) Only those persons to whom an interpretation is specifically addressed and other persons who are named in the request, who have been informed by the applicant for an interpretation of the pendency of the request and who are direct participants in the act, transaction or circumstance presented, may rely upon it. The effectiveness of an interpretation depends entirely on the accuracy of the facts presented to the General Counsel. If a material or relevant fact has been misrepresented or omitted or if any material or relevant fact changes after an interpretation is issued or if the action taken differs from the facts presented in the request, the interpretation may not be relied upon by any person.
(4) An interpretation may be rescinded or modified prospectively at any time. A rescission or modification is effected by notifying persons entitled to rely on the interpretation at the address contained in the original request.
(5) Any interpretation based on the NGPA or a rule issued thereunder in effect at the time of issuance may be relied upon only to the extent such law or rule remains in effect.
(6) Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(3), (g)(4) and (g)(5) of this section, the Staff will not recommend any action to the Commission which is inconsistent with the position espoused in the interpretation. The interpretation of the General Counsel is not the interpretation of the Commission. An interpretation provided by the General Counsel is given without prejudice to the Commission's authority to consider the same or like question and to issue a declaratory order to take other action which has the effect of rescinding, revoking, or modifying the interpretation of the General Counsel.
(h)
Appeal.
There is no appeal to the Commission of an interpretation.
(i)
Interpretative rules.
Upon the petition of any person or upon its own motion, the Commission may publish in the
Federal Register
an interpretative rule regarding any question arising under the NGPA or a rule promulgated thereunder. Any person is entitled to rely upon an interpretative rule.
(j)
Applications for adjustments treated as requests for interpretations.
Except for the notification provisions of paragraph (d)(5) of this section, the provisions of this section apply to any petition for an adjustment which is deemed a request for an interpretation under Rule 1117. Notice to all parties to an adjustment proceeding under subpart K
of this part that is deemed to be a request for an interpretation will be given under Rule 1117(d)(1).
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 394, 49 FR 35366, Sept. 7, 1984; Order 737, 75 FR 43405, July 26, 2010]
§ 385.1902
Appeals from action of staff (Rule 1902).
(a) Any staff action (other than a decision or ruling of presiding officer, as defined in Rule 102(e)(1), made in a proceeding set for hearing under subpart E of this part) taken pursuant to authority delegated to the staff by the Commission is a final agency action that is subject to a request for rehearing under Rule 713 (request for rehearing).
(b) All appeals of staff action that were timely filed prior to December 3, 1990 and that had not been acted upon by the Commission on their substantive merits are deemed to be timely filed requests for rehearing of final agency action. All notices issued by the Commission prior to December 3, 1990 stating the Commission's intent to act on appeals of staff action such that they are not deemed denied by the expiration of a 30-day period after the filing of the appeal, are deemed to be orders granting rehearing of final agency action for the sole purpose of further consideration, unless the Commission issued an order on the substantive merits of the appeal prior to December 3, 1990. No later than January 2, 1991, persons who had timely filed appeals of staff action prior to December 3, 1990 which were pending before the Commission on that date may file additional pleadings to update or supplement those appeals.
[Order 530, 55 FR 50682, Dec. 10, 1990, as amended by Order 606, 64 FR 44405, Aug. 16, 1999]
§ 385.1903
Notice in rulemaking proceedings (Rule 1903).
Before the adoption of rule of general applicability or the commencement of hearing on such a proposed rulemaking, the Commission will cause general notice to be given by publication in the
Federal Register,
such notice to be published therein not less than 15 days prior to the date fixed for the consideration of the adoption of a proposed rule or rules or for the commencement of the hearing, if any, on the proposed rulemaking, except where a shorter period is reasonable and good cause exists therefor;
Provided however,
That:
(a) When the Commission, for good cause, finds it impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest to give such notice, it may proceed with the adoption of rules without notice by incorporating therein a finding to such effect and a concise statement of the reasons therefor;
(b) Except when notice or hearing is required by statute, the Commission may issue at any time rules of organization, procedure or practice, or interpretative rules, or statements of policy, without notice or public proceedings; and
(c) This section is not to be construed as applicable to the extent that there may be involved any military, naval, or foreign affairs function of the United States, or any matter relating to the Commission's management or personnel, or to United States property, loans, grants, benefits, or contracts.
§ 385.1904
Copies of transcripts (Rule 1904).
The Commission will cause to be made a stenographic record of public hearings and such copies of the transcript thereof as it requires for its own purposes. Participants desiring copies of such transcript may obtain the same from the official reporter upon payment of the fees fixed therefor.
§ 385.1907
Reports of compliance (Rule 1907).
When any licensee, permittee, or any other person subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission is required to do or perform any act by Commission order, permit, or license provision, there must be filed with the Commission within 30 days following the date when such requirement became effective, a notice, under oath, stating that such requirement has been met or complied with;
Provided, however,
That the Commission, by rule or order, or by making specific provision therefor in a license or permit, may provide otherwise for
the giving of such notice of compliance. Five conformed copies of such notice must be filed in lieu of the fourteen conformed copies required by Rule 2004 (copies of filings).

# Subpart T—Formal Requirements for Filings in Proceedings Before the Commission
§ 385.2001
Filings and Other Submissions.
(a)
Filings with the Commission.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any document required to be filed with the Commission must comply with Rules 2001 to 2005 and must be submitted to the Secretary by:
(i) Mailing the document through the United States Postal Service to the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 888 First Street NE, Washington, DC 20426;
(ii) Delivering the document by any source other than United States Postal Service to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 12225 Wilkins Avenue, Rockville, Maryland 20852; or
(iii) By filing via the Internet pursuant to Rule 2003 through the links provided at
http://www.ferc.gov.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(1):
Assistance for filing via the Internet is available by calling (202) 502-6652 or 1-866-208-3676 (toll free), or by e-mail to
FERCOnlineSupport@ferc.gov.
(2) Any document is considered filed, if in paper form, on the date stamped by the Secretary or, in the case of a document filed via the Internet, on the date indicated in the acknowledgment that will be sent immediately upon the Commission's receipt of a submission, unless the document is subsequently rejected. Any document received after regular business hours is considered filed on the next regular business day.
(b)
Rejection.
(1) If any filing does not comply with any applicable statute, rule, or order, the filing may be rejected, unless the filing is accompanied by a motion requesting a waiver of the applicable requirement of a rule or order and the motion is granted.
(2) If any filing is rejected, the document is deemed not to have been filed with the Commission.
(3) Where a document is rejected under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Secretary, or the office director to whom the filing has been referred, will notify the submitter and indicate the deficiencies in the filing and the reason for the rejection.
(4) If a filing does not comply with any applicable requirement, all or part of the filing may be stricken. Any failure to reject a filing which is not in compliance with an applicable statute, rule, or order does not waive any obligation to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
[Order 619, 65 FR 57091, Sept. 21, 2000, as amended by Order 2002, 68 FR 51143, Aug. 25, 2003; Order 647, 69 FR 32440, June 10, 2004; Order 703, 72 FR 65664, Nov. 23, 2007; 84 FR 46440, Sept. 4, 2019]
§ 385.2002
Caption of filings (Rule 2002).
A filing must begin with a caption that sets forth:
(a) The docket designation, if any;
(b) The words “INTERLOCUTORY APPEAL” underneath the docket designation if the filing is an appeal under Rule 715(c) of a presiding officer's denial of a motion for an interlocutory appeal;
(c) The title of the proceeding if a proceeding has been initiated;
(d) A heading which describes the filing; and
(e) The name of the participant for whom the filing is made, or a shortened designation for the participant.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 402, 49 FR 39539, Oct. 9, 1984]
§ 385.2003
Specifications (Rule 2003).
(a)
All filings.
Any filing with the Commission must be:
(1) Typewritten, printed, reproduced, or prepared using a computer or other word or data processing equipment;
(2) Have double-spaced lines with left margins not less than 1
1/2
inch wide, except that any tariff or rate filing may be single-spaced;
(3) Have indented and single-spaced any quotation that exceeds 50 words; and
(4) Use not less than 10 point font.
(b)
Filing by paper.
(1) Any filing with the Commission made in paper form must be:
(i) Printed or reproduced, with each copy clearly legible;
(ii) On letter-size unglazed paper that is 8 to 8
1/2
inches wide and 10
1/2
to 11 inches long; and
(iii) Bound or stapled at the left side only, if the filing exceeds one page.
(2) Any log, graph, map, drawing, or chart submitted as part of a filing will be accepted on paper larger than provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if it cannot be provided legibly on letter-size paper.
(c)
Filing via the Internet.
(1) All documents filed under this Chapter may be filed via the Internet except those listed by the Secretary. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Chapter, filing via the Internet is in lieu of other methods of filing. Internet filings must be made in accordance with instructions issued by the Secretary and made available online at
http://www.ferc.gov.
Provisions of this chapter or directions from the Commission containing requirements as to the content and format of specific types of filings remain applicable.
(2) The Secretary will make available on the Commission's Web site a list of document types that may not be filed via the Internet, as well as instructions pertaining to allowable electronic file and document formats, the filing of complex documents, whether paper copies are required, and procedural guidelines.
(3) For purposes of statutes or regulations governing timeliness, a document filed via the Internet will be deemed to have been received by the Commission at the time the last byte of the document is received by the Commission.
(d)
Citation form.
Any filing with the Commission should comply with the rules of citation, except Rule 1.1, set forth in the most current edition of A Uniform System of Citation, published by The Harvard Law Review Association. Citations to specific pages of documents filed via the Internet should use the page numbers appearing in the PDF (Portable Document Format) version of the document available on the Commission's web site.
[Order 619, 65 FR 57091, Sept. 21, 2000, as amended by Order 2002, 68 FR 51143, Aug. 25, 2003; Order 647, 69 FR 32440, June 10, 2004; Order 703, 72 FR 65664, Nov. 23, 2007]
§ 385.2004
Originals and copies of filings (Rule 2004).
The requirements for making filings under this chapter are posted on the Commission's Web site at
http://www.ferc.gov.
The requirements cover documents and forms submitted on paper, on electronic media, or via the Commission's electronic filing systems.
[Order 737, 75 FR 43405, July 26, 2010]
§ 385.2005
Subscription and verification (Rule 2005).
(a)
Subscription.
(1) Any filing with the Commission must be signed.
(2) The signature on a filing constitutes a certificate that:
(i) The signer has read the filing signed and knows its contents;
(ii) The contents are true as stated, to the best knowledge and belief of the signer; and
(iii) The signer possesses full power and authority to sign the filing.
(3) A filing must be signed by:
(i) The person on behalf of whom the filing is made;
(ii) Any officer of the corporation, trust, association, or other organized group, on behalf of which the filing is made;
(iii) Any officer, agent, or employee of the governmental authority, agency, or instrumentality on behalf of which the filing is made; or
(iv) A representative qualified to practice before the Commission under Rule 2101 who possesses authority to sign.
(4) The signer of any filing may be required to submit evidence of authority to sign the filing.
(b)
Verification.
(1) The facts alleged in any filing need not be verified, unless verification is required by statute, rule, or order.
(2) If verification of any filing is required, the verification must be under oath by a person having knowledge of the matters set forth in the filing. If any verification is made by a person other than the signer, a statement must be attached to the verification explaining why a person other than the signer provides verification.
(3) Any requirement that a filing include or be supported by a sworn declaration, verification, certificate,
statement, oath, or affidavit may be satisfied by compliance with the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1746, provided that the filer, or an authorized representative of the filer, maintains a copy of the document bearing an original, physical signature until after such time as all administrative and judicial proceedings in the relevant matter are closed and all deadlines for further administrative or judicial review have passed.
(c)
Electronic signature.
In the case of any document filed in electronic form under the provisions of this Chapter, the typed characters representing the name of a person shall be sufficient to show that such person has signed the document for purposes of this section.
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 619, 65 FR 57092, Sept. 21, 2000; Order 653, 70 FR 8724, Feb. 23, 2005]
§ 385.2006
Docket system (Rule 2006).
(a) The Secretary will maintain a system for docketing proceedings.
(b) Any public information in any docket is available for inspection and copying by the public during the office hours of the Commission, to the extent that such availability is consistent with the proper discharge of the Commission's duties and in conformity with part 388 of this chapter.
[Order 226, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982; 48 FR 786, Jan. 7, 1983]
§ 385.2007
Time (Rule 2007).
(a)
Computation.
(1) Except as otherwise required by law, any period of time prescribed or allowed by statute or Commission rule or order is computed to exclude the day of the act or event from which the time period begins to run.
(2) The last day of any time period is included in the time period, unless it is a Saturday; Sunday; a day on which the Commission closes due to adverse conditions and does not reopen prior to its official close of business, even though some official duties may continue through telework-ready employees; part-day holiday that affects the Commission; or legal public holiday as designated in section 6103 of title 5, U.S. Code. In each case the period does not end until the close of the Commission business of the next day which is not a Saturday; Sunday; a day on which the Commission closes due to adverse conditions and does not reopen prior to its official close of business even though some official duties may continue through telework-ready employees; part-day holiday that affects the Commission; or legal public holiday.
(b)
Date of issuance of Commission rules or orders.
(1) Any Commission rule or order is deemed issued when the Secretary does the earliest of the following:
(i) Posts a full-text copy in the Division of Public Information;
(ii) Mails or delivers copies of the order to the parties; or
(iii) Makes such copies public.
(2) Any date of issuance specified in a rule or order need not be the date on which the rule or order is adopted by the Commission.
(c)
Effective date of Commission rules or orders.
(1) Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, rules or orders are effective on the date of issuance.
(2) Any initial or revised initial decision issued by a presiding officer is effective when the initial or revised initial decision is final under Rule 708(d).
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 375, 49 FR 21316, May 21, 1984; Order 376, 49 FR 21707, May 23, 1984; Order 645, 69 FR 2504, Jan. 16, 2004; 84 FR 3983, Feb. 14, 2019]
§ 385.2008
Extensions of time (Rule 2008).
(a) Except as otherwise provided by law, the time by which any person is required or allowed to act under any statute, rule, or order may be extended by the decisional authority for good cause, upon a motion made before the expiration of the period prescribed or previously extended.
(b) If any motion for extension of time is made after the expiration of a specified time period, the decisional authority may permit performance of the act required or allowed, if the movant shows extraordinary circumstances sufficient to justify the failure to act in a timely manner.
§ 385.2009
Notice (Rule 2009).
Unless actual notice is given or unless newspaper notice is given as required by law, notice by the Commission is provided by the Secretary only by publication in the
Federal Register.
Actual notice is usually given by service under Rule 2010.
§ 385.2010
Service (Rule 2010).
(a)
By participants.
(1) Any participant filing a document in a proceeding must serve a copy of the document on:
(i) Each person whose name is on the official service list, or applicable restricted service list, for the proceeding or phase of the proceeding; and
(ii) Any other person required to be served under Commission rule or order or under law.
(2) If any person receives a rejection letter or deficiency letter from the Commission, the person must serve a copy of the letter on any person previously served copies of the rejected or deficient filing.
(b)
By the Secretary.
The Secretary will serve, as appropriate:
(1) A copy of any complaint on any person against whom the complaint is directed;
(2) A copy of any notice of tariff or rate examination or order to show cause, on any person to whom the notice or order is issued;
(3) A copy of any rule or any order by a decisional authority in a proceeding on any person included on the official service list, or applicable restricted service list, for the proceeding or phase of the proceeding, provided that such person has complied with paragraph (g) of this section.
(c)
Official service list.
(1) The official service list for any proceeding will contain:
(i) The name, address and, for proceedings commenced on or after March 21, 2005, e-mail address of any person designated for service in the initial pleading, other than a protest, or in the tariff or rate filing which is filed by any participant; and
(ii) The name of counsel for the staff of the Commission.
(2) Any designation of a person for service may be changed by following the instructions for the Commission's electronic registration system, located on its Web site at
http://www.ferc.gov
or, in the event that the proceeding was commenced prior to March 21, 2005, or the person designated for service is unable to use the electronic registration system, by filing a notice with the Commission and serving the notice on each person whose name is included on the official service list.
(d)
Restricted service list.
(1) For purposes of eliminating unnecessary expense or improving administrative efficiency, the Secretary, an office director, or the presiding officer may establish, by order, a restricted service list for an entire proceeding, a phase of a proceeding, one or more issues in a proceeding, or one or more cases in a consolidated proceeding.
(2) Any restricted service list will contain the names of each person on the official service list, or the person's representative, who, in the judgment of the decisional authority establishing the list, is an active participant with respect to the proceeding or consolidated proceeding, any phase of the proceeding, or any issue in the proceeding, for which the list is established.
(3) Any restricted service list is maintained in the same manner as, and in addition to, the official service list under paragraph (c) of this section.
(4) Before any restricted service list is established, each person included on the official service list will be given notice of any proposal to establish a restricted service list and an opportunity to show why that person should also be included on the restricted service list or why a restricted service list should not be established.
(5) Any designation of a person for service on a restricted service list may be changed by filing written notice with the Commission and serving that notice on each person whose name is on the applicable restricted service list.
(e)
Intervenors.
If a motion to intervene or any notice of intervention is filed, the name, address and, for proceedings commenced on or after March 21, 2005, e-mail address of any person designated for service in the motion or notice are placed on the official service list or any applicable restricted service list, provided that such person has complied with paragraph (g) of this section. Any person placed on the official
service list under this paragraph is entitled to service in accordance with this section. If a motion to intervene is denied, the name, address and e-mail address of each person designated for service pursuant to that motion will be removed from the official service list.
(f)
Methods of service.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, service of any document in proceedings commenced prior to March 21, 2005, must be made by:
(i) Electronic means where the sender and recipient agree to such means;
(ii) United States mail, first class or better; or
(iii) Delivery in a manner that, and to a place where, the person on whom service is required may reasonably be expected to obtain actual and timely receipt.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, service of any document in proceedings commenced on or after March 21, 2005, must be made by electronic means unless the sender and recipient agree otherwise or the recipient's e-mail address is unavailable from the official service list, except in the case of a recipient who has secured a waiver under the provisions of § 390.3 of this chapter, or is exempt under the provisions of § 390.4 of this chapter, or in the case of a protected or confidential document the security of which might be jeopardized by electronic service, in which case service upon that recipient or of that document only shall be made by:
(i) United States mail, first class or better; or
(ii) Delivery in a manner that, and to a place where, the person on whom service is required may reasonably be expected to obtain actual and timely receipt.
(3) Service of a document by electronic means shall be made by the transmission of a link to that document in the Commission's eLibrary system or by alternate means reasonably calculated to make the document available to required recipients. Alternate means may include but are not limited to, attachment of an electronic copy of the document to an e-mail or transmission of a link to an Internet site containing the document. It is the sender's responsibility to take reasonable steps to ensure that the means employed for service will be within the technological capabilities of the recipients.
(g)
Methods of Service by the Secretary.
Service by the Secretary shall be made by electronic means, unless such means are impractical, in which case service shall be made by United States mail.
(h)
Electronic registration.
In the case of proceedings commenced on or after March 21, 2005, any person, to be included on a service list, must have complied with the procedures for electronic registration made available on the Commission's Web site, at
http://www.ferc.gov,
unless such person has secured a waiver under the provisions of § 390.3 of this Chapter, or is exempt under the provisions of § 390.4 of this Chapter.
(i)
Timing of service.
(1) Service is made under this section when the document served is deposited in the mail or is delivered in another manner.
(2) Service of any document must be made not later than the date of the filing of the document.
(3) In the case of a document served through a link to the Commission's eLibrary system, as specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, if a link to the document does not become available in eLibrary within two business days after the document is filed, the person responsible for serving the document must immediately serve the document by other means, as specified in paragraph (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section.
(j)
Certification.
(1) At the time any document required to be served is filed with the Commission, the original of a certificate of service must be attached to the document and a copy of the certificate must be attached to each copy of the document filed with the Commission.
(2) The certificate of service must conform to the following format:
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each person designated on the official service list [or the restricted service list, if applicable] compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding.
Dated at this
day of , 19 .
Name
(if applicable)
Address
Telephone No.
(k)
Designation of corporate officials to receive service.
(1) Any entity subject to regulation by the Commission must designate at least one, but not more than two, corporate officials or other persons to receive service of complaints, petitions for declaratory order, show cause orders, data requests, investigatory letters or other documents where a person to receive service has not otherwise been designated under Commission regulations. Each entity must file with the Secretary of the Commission:
(i) The name of the corporate official or person that is to receive service;
(ii) The title of the corporate official or person, if applicable;
(iii) The address of the corporate official or person, including, where applicable, department, room number, or mail routing code;
(iv) The telephone number of the corporate official or person;
(v) The facsimile number of the corporate official or person, if applicable; and
(vi) The electronic mail address of the corporate official or person, if applicable.
(2) Each regulated entity has a continuing obligation to file with the Secretary of the Commission updated information concerning the corporate official or person designated to receive service.
(3) A list of corporate officials and persons designated to receive service pursuant to this paragraph will be maintained by the Secretary of the Commission and will be made available to the public in hard copy upon request and through the Commission's web site at
http://www.ferc.gov.
(4) Any person who wishes to serve a complaint or petition for declaratory order on any entity regulated by the Commission must serve the corporate official or person designated pursuant to this paragraph (i).
(5) The Commission will serve show cause orders, data requests, investigatory letters or other documents on the corporate official or person designated under this paragraph (i).
[Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 604, 64 FR 31496, June 11, 1999; Order 610, 64 FR 62582, Nov. 17, 1999; Order 647, 69 FR 32440, June 10, 2004; Order 653, 70 FR 8725, Feb. 23, 2005; 70 FR 21332, Apr. 26, 2005]
§ 385.2011
Procedures for filing on electronic media (Rule 2011).
(a) FERC Forms subject to the procedures provided in this section include:
(1) FERC Form No. 2, Annual report for major natural gas companies.
(2) FERC Form No. 2-A, Annual report for nonmajor natural gas companies.
(3) FERC Form No. 8, Underground gas storage report.
(4) FERC Form No. 11, Natural gas pipeline monthly statement.
(5) FERC Form No. 14, Annual report for importers and exporters of natural gas.
(6) FERC Form No. 1, Annual report of Major electric utilities, licensees and others.
(7) FERC Form No. 6, Annual Report of Oil Pipeline Companies.
(8) FERC Form No. 1-F, Annual report for Nonmajor public utilities and licensees.
(9) FERC Form No. 60, Annual report of centralized service companies.
(10) FERC Form No. 714, Annual Electric Balancing Authority Area and Planning Area Report.
(11) FERC Form No. 552, Annual Report of Natural Gas Transactions.
(b) These procedures also apply to:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) Certificate and abandonment applications filed under subparts A, E, and F of part 157 of this chapter.
(3) Blanket certificate applications filed under subpart G of part 284 of this chapter.
(c)
What to file.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, any filing of a schedule or an update described in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section must be submitted on electronic media.
(2) Electronic media suitable for Commission filings are listed in the instructions for each form and filings.
Additionally, lists of suitable electronic media are available upon request from the Commission.
(3) With the exception of the FERC Form Nos. 1, 1-F, 2, 2-A, 6, 60, and 714, the electronic media must be accompanied by the traditional prescribed number of paper copies.
(4) The formats for the electronic filing and the paper copy are available through the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov.
(5) The subscription required by § 385.2005(a) must state that the paper copies contain the same information as contained on the electronic media, that the signer knows the contents of the paper copies and electronic media, and that the contents as stated in the copies and on the electronic media are true to the best knowledge and belief of the signer.
(d)(1)
Where to file.
The electronic media, the paper copies, and accompanying cover letter must be submitted to: Office of the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20426.
(2) EDI data submissions must be made as indicated in the electronic filing instructions and formats for the particular form or filing, and the paper copies and accompanying cover letter must be submitted to: Office of the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20426.
(e)
Waiver
—(1)
Filing of petition.
If a natural gas company, electric utility, licensee or other entity does not have and is unable to acquire the computer capability to file the information required to be filed on electronic media, the company may request waiver from the requirement of this part, by filing an original and two copies of a petition. The natural gas company, electric utility, licensee or other entity may renew the waiver if the company can continue to show that it does not have and is unable to acquire the computer capability for electric filing.
(2)
Standard for waiver.
The petition for waiver must show that the natural gas company, electric utility, licensee or other entity does not have the computer capability to file the information required under this section on electronic media and that acquisition of the capability would cause the company severe economic hardship. This waiver may be granted for up to one year.
(3)
Timing.
The petition for waiver must be filed by the date on which the information in the manner affected by the petition is required to be initially filed.
(4)
Decision on petition.
The Commission or its designee will review a petition for waiver and notify the applicant of its grant or denial. Once the petition is decided, the natural gas company, electric utility, licensee or other entity will have 30 days from the date of notification of the decision to submit any information, in the manner specified by the Commission in the decision on the waiver petition, that was required to be filed while the petition was pending.
[53 FR 15032, Apr. 27, 1988]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 385.2011, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 385.2012
Petitions for review of Commission Orders (Rule 2012).
When a petition for review of an order issued by the Commission is filed in a United States Court of Appeals, a copy of the petition which has been stamped by the court with the date of filing must be mailed or hand delivered to the Office of the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 888 First Street, NE., Washington, DC 20426. If within ten days after issuance of the Commission order, the Office of the Secretary has physically received court-stamped copies of petitions for review of the same order, which petitions have been filed in two or more U.S. Courts of Appeals, the Commission will forward copies of those petitions to the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2112(a).
[Order 504, 53 FR 37546, Sept. 27, 1988, as amended by Order 737, 75 FR 43405, July 26, 2010]
§ 385.2013
Notification of requests for Federal authorizations and requests for further information (Rule 2013).
(a) For each Federal authorization—
i.e.
, permit, special use authorization, certification, concurrence, opinion, or other approval—required under Federal law with respect to a natural gas project for which an application has been filed under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act for a certificate of public convenience and necessity under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, each Federal agency or officer, or State agency or officer acting pursuant to delegated Federal authority, responsible for a Federal authorization must file with the Commission within 30 days of the date of receipt of a request for a Federal authorization, notice of the following:
(1) Whether the application is ready for processing, and if not, what additional information or materials will be necessary to assess the merits of the request;
(2) The time the agency or official will allot the applicant to provide the necessary additional information or materials;
(3) What, if any, studies will be necessary in order to evaluate the request;
(4) The anticipated effective date of the agency's or official's decision; and
(5) If applicable, the schedule set by Federal law for the agency or official to act.
(b) A Federal agency or officer, or State agency or officer acting pursuant to delegated Federal authority, considering a request for a Federal authorization that submits a data request to an applicant must file a copy of the data request with the Commission within 10 business days.
[Order 687, 71 FR 62921, Oct. 27, 2006]
§ 385.2014
Petitions for appeal or review of Federal authorizations (Rule 2014).
(a) For each Federal authorization—
i.e.
, permit, special use authorization, certification, concurrence, opinion, or other approval—required under Federal law with respect to a natural gas project for which an application has been filed for authorization under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act for a certificate of public convenience and necessity under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, the Federal agency or officer, or State agency or officer acting pursuant to delegated Federal authority, responsible for each Federal authorization must file with the Commission within 30 days of the effective date of a final decision or action on a request for a Federal authorization or the expiration of the time provided by the Commission or by Federal law for a final decision or action, the following:
(1) A copy of any final decision or action;
(2) An index identifying all documents and materials—including pleadings, comments, evidence, exhibits, testimony, project alternatives, studies, and maps—relied upon by the agency or official in reaching a decision or action; and
(3) The designation “Consolidated Record” and the docket number for the Commission proceeding applicable to the requested Federal authorization.
(b) The agencies' and officers' decisions, actions, and indices, and the Commission's record in each proceeding, constitute the complete consolidated record. The original documents and materials that make up the complete consolidated record must be retained by agencies, officers, and the Commission for at least three years from the effective date of a decision or action or until an appeal or review is concluded.
(c) Upon appeal or review of a Federal authorization, agencies, officers, and the Commission will transmit to the reviewing authority, as requested, documents and materials that constitute the complete consolidated record.
[Order 687, 71 FR 62921, Oct. 27, 2006]
§ 385.2015
Videotapes (Rule 2015).
Any person may file a videotape that portrays the site of, or some physical aspect of, an energy project, such as a waterfall or flood waters at the site of an existing or proposed hydroelectric project, or construction activities at the site of a natural gas pipeline. The filing must include a written statement describing the place, date, and time at which the videotape was filmed, who filmed it, what it purports
to depict, and the caption and docket number of the proceeding (if any) in which it is to be filed. Any person who files a videotape and who is also a party (either as an applicant or as an intervenor) to a docketed proceeding in which the videotape is filed must file four copies of the videotape with the Commission's Secretary, in VHS format with voice-over or pictorial inclusion of the data contained in the accompanying written statement, serve copies of the videotape on all of the other parties to the proceeding, and include a certificate of service with the filing.
[Order 573, 59 FR 63247, Dec. 8, 1994. Redesignated by Order 687, 71 FR 62921, Oct. 27, 2006]

# Subpart U—Appearance and Practice Before the Commission
§ 385.2101
Appearances (Rule 2101).
(a) A participant may appear in a proceeding in person or by an attorney or other qualified representative. An individual may appear in his or her own behalf, a member of a partnership may represent the partnership, a bona-fide officer of a corporation, trust, association or organized group may represent the corporation, trust, association or group, and an officer or employee of a State commission, of a department or political subdivision of a State or other governmental authority, may represent the State commission or the department or political subdivision of the State or other governmental authority, in any proceeding.
(b) A person compelled to appear or voluntarily testifying or making a statement before the Commission or the presiding officer, may be accompanied, represented, and advised by an attorney or other qualified representative.
(c) A person appearing before the Commission or the presiding officer must conform to the standards of ethical conduct required of practitioners before the Courts of the United States, and where applicable, to the requirements of Section 12(i) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. 791(i)).
§ 385.2102
Suspension (Rule 2102).
(a) After a hearing the Commission may disqualify and deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it in any way to a person who is found:
(1) Not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others, or
(2) To have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct, or
(3) Otherwise to be not qualified.
(b) Contumacious conduct in a hearing before the Commission or a presiding officer will be grounds for exclusion of any person from such hearing and for summary suspension for the duration of the hearing by the Commission or the presiding officer.
§ 385.2103
Appearance of former employees (Rule 2103).
(a) No person having served as a member, officer, expert, administrative law judge, attorney, accountant, engineer, or other employee of the Commission may practice before or act as attorney, expert witness, or representative in connection with any proceeding or matter before the Commission which such person has handled, investigated, advised, or participated in the consideration of while in the service of the Commission.
(b) No person having been so employed may within 1 year after his or her employment has ceased, practice before or act as attorney, expert witness, or representative in connection with any proceeding or matter before the Commission which was under the official responsibility of such person, as defined in 18 U.S.C. 202, while in the service of the Commission.
(c) Nothing in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section prevents a former member, officer, expert, administrative law judge, attorney, accountant, engineer, or other employee of the Commission with outstanding scientific or technological qualifications from practicing before or acting as an attorney or representative in connection with a particular matter in a scientific or technological field if the Chairman of the Commission makes a certification in writing, published in the
Federal Register,
that the national interest would be served by such action or representation.

# Subpart V—Off-the-Record Communications; Separation of Functions
§ 385.2201
Rules governing off-the-record communications (Rule 2201).
(a)
Purpose and scope.
This section governs off-the-record communications with the Commission in a manner that permits fully informed decision making by the Commission while ensuring the integrity and fairness of the Commission's decisional process. This rule will apply to all contested on-the-record proceedings, except that the Commission may, by rule or order, modify any provision of this subpart, as it applies to all or part of a proceeding, to the extent permitted by law.
(b)
General rule prohibiting off-the-record communications.
Except as permitted in paragraph (e) of this section, in any contested on-the-record proceeding, no person outside the Commission shall make or knowingly cause to be made to any decisional employee, and no decisional employee shall make or knowingly cause to be made to any person outside the Commission, any off-the-record communication.
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Contested on-the-record proceeding
means
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, any proceeding before the Commission to which there is a right to intervene and in which an intervenor disputes any material issue, any proceeding initiated pursuant to rule 206 by the filing of a complaint with the Commission, any proceeding initiated by the Commission on its own motion or in response to a filing, or any proceeding arising from an investigation under part 1b of this chapter beginning from the time the Commission initiates a proceeding governed by part 385 of this chapter.
(ii) The term does not include notice-and-comment rulemakings under 5 U.S.C. 553, investigations under part 1b of this chapter, proceedings not having a party or parties, or any proceeding in which no party disputes any material issue.
(2)
Contractor
means a direct Commission contractor and its subcontractors, or a third-party contractor and its subcontractors, working subject to Commission supervision and control.
(3)
Decisional employee
means a Commissioner or member of his or her personal staff, an administrative law judge, or any other employee of the Commission, or contractor, who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of a proceeding, but does not include an employee designated as part of the Commission's trial staff in a proceeding, a settlement judge appointed under Rule 603, a neutral (other than an arbitrator) under Rule 604 in an alternative dispute resolution proceeding, or an employee designated as being non-decisional in a proceeding.
(4)
Off-the-record communication
means any communication relevant to the merits of a contested on-the-record proceeding that, if written, is not filed with the Secretary and not served on the parties to the proceeding in accordance with Rule 2010, or if oral, is made without reasonable prior notice to the parties to the proceeding and without the opportunity for such parties to be present when the communication is made.
(5)
Relevant to the merits
means capable of affecting the outcome of a proceeding, or of influencing a decision, or providing an opportunity to influence a decision, on any issue in the proceeding, but does not include:
(i) Procedural inquiries, such as a request for information relating solely to the status of a proceeding, unless the inquiry states or implies a preference for a particular party or position, or is otherwise intended, directly or indirectly, to address the merits or influence the outcome of a proceeding;
(ii) A general background or broad policy discussion involving an industry or a substantial segment of an industry, where the discussion occurs outside the context of any particular proceeding involving a party or parties and does not address the specific merits of the proceeding; or,
(iii) Communications relating to compliance matters not the subject of an ongoing proceeding.
(d)
Applicability of prohibitions.
(1) The prohibitions in paragraph (b) of this section apply to:
(i) Proceedings initiated by the Commission from the time an order initiating the proceeding is issued;
(ii) Proceedings returned to the Commission on judicial remand from the date the court issues its mandate;
(iii) Complaints initiated pursuant to rule 206 from the date of the filing of the complaint with the Commission, or from the date the Commission initiates an investigation (other than an investigation under part 1b of this chapter) on its own motion; and
(iv) All other proceedings from the time of the filing of an intervention disputing any material issue that is the subject of a proceeding.
(2) The prohibitions remain in force until:
(i) A final Commission decision or other final order disposing of the merits of the proceeding is issued; or, when applicable, after the time for seeking rehearing of a final Commission decision, or other final order disposing of the merits, expires;
(ii) The Commission otherwise terminates the proceeding; or
(iii) The proceeding is no longer contested.
(e)
Exempt off-the-record communications.
(1) Except as provided by paragraph (e)(2), the general prohibitions in paragraph (b) of this section do not apply to:
(i) An off-the-record communication permitted by law and authorized by the Commission;
(ii) An off-the-record communication related to any emergency concerning a facility regulated by the Commission or a facility that provides Commission-regulated services, involving injury or threat of injury to persons, property, or the environment, subject to disclosure under paragraph (g) of this section;
(iii) An off-the-record communication provided for in a written agreement among all parties to a proceeding that has been approved by the Commission;
(iv) An off-the-record written communication from a non-party elected official, subject to disclosure under paragraph (g) of this section;
(v) An off-the-record communication to or from a Federal, state, local or Tribal agency that is not a party in the Commission proceeding, subject to disclosure under paragraph (g) of this section, if the communication involves:
(A) an oral or written response to a request for information made by the Commission or Commission staff; or
(B) a matter before the Commission in which a Federal, state, local, or Tribal agency has regulatory responsibilities, including authority to impose or recommend conditions in connection with a Commission license, certificate, or exemption;
(vi) An off-the-record communication, subject to disclosure under paragraph (g) of this section, that relates to:
(A) The preparation of an environmental impact statement if communications occur prior to the issuance of the final environmental impact statement; or
(B) The preparation of an environmental assessment where the Commission has determined to solicit public comment on the environmental assessment, if such communications occur prior to the issuance of the final environmental document.
(vii) An off-the-record communication involving individual landowners who are not parties to the proceeding and whose property would be used or abuts property that would be used by the project that is the subject of the proceeding, subject to disclosure under paragraph (g) of this section.
(viii) An off-the-record communication from any person related to any national security-related issue concerning a facility regulated by the Commission or a facility that provides Commission-regulated services.
(2) Except as may be provided by Commission order in a proceeding to which this subpart applies, the exceptions listed under paragraph (e)(1) will not apply to any off-the-record communications made to or by a presiding officer in any proceeding set for hearing under subpart E of this part.
(f)
Treatment of prohibited off-the-record communications
—(1)
Commission consideration.
Prohibited off-the-record communications will not be considered part of the record for decision in the applicable Commission proceeding, except to the extent that the Commission by order determines otherwise.
(2)
Disclosure requirement.
Any decisional employee who makes or receives a prohibited off-the-record communication will promptly submit to the Secretary that communication, if written, or a summary of the substance of that communication, if oral. The Secretary will place the communication or the summary in the public file associated with, but not part of, the decisional record of the proceeding.
(3)
Responses to prohibited off-the-record communications.
Any party may file a response to a prohibited off-the-record communication placed in the public file under paragraph (f)(2) of this section. A party may also file a written request to have the prohibited off-the-record communication and the response included in the decisional record of the proceeding. The communication and the response will be made a part of the decisional record if the request is granted by the Commission.
(4)
Service of prohibited off-the-record communications.
The Secretary will instruct any person making a prohibited written off-the-record communication to serve the document, pursuant to Rule 2010, on all parties listed on the Commission's official service list for the applicable proceeding.
(g)
Disclosure of exempt off-the-record communications.
(1) Any document, or a summary of the substance of any oral communication, obtained through an exempt off-the-record communication under paragraphs (e)(1)(ii), (iv), (v), (vi) or (vii) of this section, promptly will be submitted to the Secretary and placed in the decisional record of the relevant Commission proceeding, unless the communication was with a cooperating agency as described by 40 CFR 1501.6, made under paragraph (e)(1)(v) of this section.
(2) Any person may respond to an exempted off-the-record communication.
(3) Any document, or a summary of the substance of any oral communications, obtained through an exempt off-the-record communication under paragraphs (e)(1)(viii) of this section, will be submitted promptly to the Secretary and placed in a non-public decisional file of the relevant Commission proceeding and made available to parties to the proceeding, subject to their signing a non-disclosure agreement. Responses will also be placed in the non-public decisional file and held confidential. If the Commission determines that the communication does not contain sensitive national security-related information, it will be placed in the decisional file.
(h)
Public notice requirement of prohibited and exempt off-the-record communications.
(1) The Secretary will, not less than every 14 days, issue a public notice listing any prohibited off-the-record communications or summaries of the communication received by his or her office. For each prohibited off-the-record communication the Secretary places in the non-decisional public file under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the notice will identify the maker of the off-the-record communication, the date the off-the-record communication was received, and the docket number to which it relates.
(2) The Secretary will not less than every 14 days, issue a public notice listing any exempt off-the-record communications or summaries of the communication received by the Secretary for inclusion in the decisional record and required to be disclosed under paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(3) The public notice required under this paragraph (h) will be posted in accordance with § 388.106 of this chapter, as well as published in the
Federal Register,
and disseminated through any other means as the Commission deems appropriate.
(i)
Sanctions.
(1) If a party or its agent or representative knowingly makes or causes to be made a prohibited off-the-record communication, the Commission may require the party, agent, or representative to show cause why the party's claim or interest in the proceeding should not be dismissed, denied, disregarded, or otherwise adversely affected because of the prohibited off-the-record communication.
(2) If a person knowingly makes or causes to be made a prohibited off-the-record communication, the Commission may disqualify and deny the person, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of practicing or appearing before it, in accordance with Rule 2102 (Suspension).
(3) Commission employees who are found to have knowingly violated this
rule may be subject to the disciplinary actions prescribed by the agency's administrative directives.
(j)
Section not exclusive.
(1) The Commission may, by rule or order, modify any provision of this section as it applies to all or part of a proceeding, to the extent permitted by law.
(2) The provisions of this section are not intended to limit the authority of a decisional employee to decline to engage in permitted off-the-record communications, or where not required by any law, statute or regulation, to make a public disclosure of any exempted off-the-record communication.
[Order 607-A, 65 FR 71254, Nov. 30, 2000, as amended by Order 623, 66 FR 67482, Dec. 31, 2001; Order 699, 72 FR 45328, Aug. 14, 2007; Order 718, 73 FR 62886, Oct. 22, 2008; Order 756, 77 FR 4895, Feb. 1, 2012]
§ 385.2202
Separation of functions (Rule 2202).
In any proceeding in which a Commission adjudication is made after hearing, or in any proceeding arising from an investigation under part 1b of this chapter beginning from the time the Commission initiates a proceeding governed by part 385 of this chapter, no officer, employee, or agent assigned to work upon the proceeding or to assist in the trial thereof, in that or any factually related proceeding, shall participate or advise as to the findings, conclusion or decision, except as a witness or counsel in public proceedings.
[Order 718, 73 FR 62886, Oct. 22, 2008]
Pt. 388

# PART 388—INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
Sec.
388.101
Scope.
388.102
Notice of proceedings.
388.103
Notice and publication of decisions, rules, statements of policy, organization and operations.
388.104
Informal advice from Commission staff.
388.105
Procedures for press, television, radio, and photographic coverage.
388.106
Requests for Commission records available from the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov.
388.107
Commission records exempt from public disclosure.
388.108
Requests for Commission records not available from the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov.
388.109
Fees for record requests.
388.110
Procedure for appeal of denial of requests for Commission records not publicly available, denial of requests for fee waiver or reduction, and denial of requests for expedited processing.
388.111
Procedures in event of subpoena.
388.112
Requests for privileged treatment for documents submitted to the Commission.
388.113
Critical Energy/Electric Infrastructure Information (CEII).

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301-305, 551, 552 (as amended), 553-557; 42 U.S.C. 7101-7352; 16 U.S.C. 824(o-l).

# Source:
Order 488, 53 FR 1473, Jan. 20, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 388.101
Scope.
This part prescribes the rules governing public notice of proceedings, publication of decisions, requests for informal advice from Commission staff, procedures for press, television, radio and photographic coverage, requests for Commission records, requests for confidential treatment of documents submitted to the Commission, procedures for responding to subpoenas seeking documents or testimony from Commission employees or former employees, fees for various requests for documents, and requests for reduction or waiver of these fees.
§ 388.102
Notice of proceedings.
(a) Public sessions of the Commission for taking evidence or hearing argument; public conferences and hearings before a presiding officer; and public conferences or hearings in substantive rulemaking proceedings, will not be held except upon notice.
(b) Notice of applications, complaints, and petitions, is governed by Rule 2009 (notice) in part 385 of this chapter. Notice of applications for certificates of public convenience and necessity under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act is governed by § 157.9 of this chapter (notice of application). Notice of public sessions and proceedings and of meetings of the Commission is governed by Rule 2009 (notice) in part 385 of this chapter. Notice of hearings and of initiation or pendency of rulemaking proceedings is governed by
Rule 1903 (notice in rulemaking proceedings) in part 385 of this chapter. Notice of application under Part I of the Federal Power Act for preliminary permits and licenses is governed by §§ 4.31 and 4.81 of this chapter (acceptance or rejection and contents). Notice of proposed alterations or surrenders of license under section 6 of the Federal Power Act may be given by filing and publication in the
Federal Register
as stated in Rule 1903 (notice in rulemaking proceedings) in part 385 of this chapter, and where deemed desirable by the Commission, by local newspaper advertisement. Notice of rates charged and changes therein is governed by the filing requirements of subchapters B and E of this chapter (regulations under the Federal Power Act and regulations under the Natural Gas Act). Other notice required by statute, rule, regulation, or order, or deemed desirable, may be given by filing and publication in the
Federal Register
as governed by Rule 1903 in part 385 of this chapter (notice in rulemaking proceedings) or by service as governed by Rule 2010 (service) in part 385 of this chapter.
§ 388.103
Notice and publication of decisions, rules, statements of policy, organization and operations.
Service of intermediate and final decisions upon parties to the proceedings is governed by Rule 2010 (service) in part 385 of this chapter. Descriptions of the Commission's organization, its methods of operation, statements of policy and interpretations, procedural and substantive rules, and amendments thereto will be filed with and published in the
Federal Register.
Commission opinions together with accompanying orders, Commission orders, and intermediate decisions will be released to the press and made available to the public promptly. Copies of Commission opinions, orders in the nature of opinions, rulemakings and selected procedural orders, and intermediate decisions which have become final are published in the
Federal Energy Guidelines
and upon payment of applicable charges, may be obtained from: Commerce Clearing House, Inc. 4025 West Peterson Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60646. Attention: Order Department.
§ 388.104
Informal advice from Commission staff.
(a) The Commission staff provides informal advice and assistance to the general public and to prospective applicants for licenses, certificates, and other Commission authorizations. Opinions expressed by the staff do not represent the official views of the Commission, but are designed to aid the public and facilitate the accomplishment of the Commission's functions. Inquiries may be directed to the chief of the appropriate office or division.
(b) Any inquiry directed to the Chief Accountant that requires a written response must be accompanied by the fee prescribed in § 381.301 of this chapter.
(c) A request directed to the Office of the General Counsel for a legal interpretation of any statute or implementing regulation under the jurisdiction of the Commission must be accompanied by the fee prescribed in § 381.305 of this chapter.
[53 FR 15383, Apr. 29, 1988]
§ 388.105
Procedures for press, television, radio, and photographic coverage.
(a) The Commission issues news releases on major applications, decisions, opinions, orders, rulemakings, new publications, major personnel changes, and other matters of general public interest. Releases are issued by and available to the media from the Office of External Affairs. Releases may be obtained through the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov.
(b) Press, television, radio and photographic coverage of Commission proceedings is permitted as follows:
(1) Press tables are located in each hearing room, and all sessions of hearings are open to the press, subject to standards of conduct applicable to all others present;
(2) Television, movie and still cameras, and recording equipment are permitted in hearing rooms prior to the opening of a hearing or oral arguments, and during recesses, upon prior arrangement with the Commission or presiding administrative law judge. All equipment must be removed from the room before hearings or oral arguments begin or resume;
(3) Television, movie and still cameras, and recording equipment may not be used while hearings and oral arguments before administrative law judges are in progress;
(4) Television and press cameras and recording equipment may be used at Commission press conferences under prior arrangement with the Office of External Affairs, provided their use does not interfere with the orderly conduct of the press conference;
(5) Regulations pertaining to the use of television, movie and still cameras, and recording equipment in connection with the Commission's open public meetings under the Government in the Sunshine Act are found in § 375.203 of this chapter.
[Order 488, 53 FR 1473, Jan. 20, 1988, as amended by Order 899, 88 FR 74032, Oct. 30, 2023]
§ 388.106
Requests for Commission records available from the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov.
(a) Publicly available documents may be obtained electronically from the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov,
or by requesting them from the
public.referenceroom@ferc.gov
by reasonably describing the records sought. Additional information on charges and services is available on the website.
(b) The public records of the Commission that are available for inspection and copying upon request via the Commission's website, include:
(1) Applications, declarations, complaints, petitions, and other papers seeking Commission action;
(2) Financial, statistical, and other reports to the Commission, power system statements of claimed cost of licensed projects, original cost and reclassification studies, proposed accounting entries, certificates of notification (under section 204(e) of the Federal Power Act), rates or rate schedules and related data and concurrences, and other filings and submittals to the Commission in compliance with the requirements of any statute, executive order, or Commission rule, regulation, order, license, or permit;
(3) Answers, replies, responses, objections, protests, motions, stipulations, exceptions, other pleadings, notices, certificates, proofs of service, transcripts of oral arguments, and briefs in any matter of proceeding;
(4) Exhibits, attachments and appendices to, amendments and corrections of, supplements to, or transmittals or withdrawals of any of the foregoing;
(5) All parts of the formal record in any matter or proceeding set for formal or statutory hearing, and any Commission correspondence related thereto;
(6) Presiding officer actions, correspondence, and memoranda to or from others, with the exception of internal communications within the Office of Administrative Law Judges:
(7) Commission orders, notices, findings, opinions, determinations, and other actions in a matter or proceeding;
(8) Commission correspondence relating to any furnishing of data or information, except to or by another branch, department, or agency of the Government;
(9) Commission correspondence with respect to the furnishing of data, information, comments, or recommendations to or by another branch, department, or agency of the Government where furnished to satisfy a specific requirement of a statute or where made public by that branch, department or agency;
(10) Staff reports on statements of claimed cost by licensees when such reports have been served on the licensee;
(11) Commission correspondence on interpretation of the Uniform System of Accounts and letters on such interpretation signed by the Chief Accountant and sent to persons outside the Commission;
(12) Commission correspondence on the interpretation or applicability of any statute, rule, regulation, order, license, or permit issued or administered by the Commission, and letters of opinion on that subject signed by the General Counsel and sent to persons outside the Commission;
(13) Copies of the filings, certifications, pleadings, records, briefs, orders, judgments, decrees, and mandates in court proceedings to which the Commission is a party and the correspondence with the courts or clerks of court;
(14) The Commission's Directives System;
(15) The Commission's opinions, decisions, orders and rulemakings;
(16) Reports, decisions, maps, and other information on electric power and natural gas industries;
(17) Subject index of major Commission actions;
(18) Annual report to Congress in which the Commission's operations during a past fiscal year are described; and
(19) Statements of policy and interpretations which have been adopted by the Commission and are not published in the
Federal Register
;
(20) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public;
(21)(i) Copies of all records released under § 388.108, which, because of their nature and subject, the Director of the Office of External Affairs has determined are likely to be requested again, and
(ii) An index of the records so designated;
(22) Reference materials and guides for requesting Commission records as required by 5 U.S.C. § 552(g), as amended; and
(23) Commission correspondence relating to the foregoing.
(24) Records that have been requested three or more times and determined eligible for public disclosure will be made publicly available on the Commission's Web site or through other electronic means.
(c) For purposes of this section,
(1)
Commission correspondence
includes written communications and enclosures, in hard copy or electronic format, received from others outside the staff and intended for the Commission or sent to others outside the staff and signed by the Chairman, a Commissioner, the Secretary, the Executive Director, or other authorized official, except those which are personal.
(2)
Formal record
includes:
(i) Filings and submittals in a matter or proceeding,
(ii) Any notice or Commission order initiating the matter or proceeding, and
(iii) If a hearing is held, the designation of the presiding officer, transcript of hearing, exhibits received in evidence, exhibits offered but not received in evidence, offers of proof, motions, stipulations, subpoenas, proofs or service, references to the Commission, and determinations made by the Commission thereon, certifications to the Commission, and anything else upon which action of the presiding officer or the Commission may be based.
The
formal record
does not include proposed testimony or exhibits not offered or received in evidence.
(3)
Matter or proceeding
means the Commission's elucidation of the relevant facts and applicable law, consideration thereof, and action thereupon with respect to a particular subject within the Commission's jurisdiction, initiated by a filing or submittal or a Commission notice or order.
[Order 488, 53 FR 1473, Jan. 20, 1988, as amended by Order 597, 63 FR 5453, Feb. 3, 1998; Order 647, 69 FR 32440, June 10, 2004; Order 832, 81 FR 86575, Dec. 1, 2016; Order 899, 88 FR 74033, Oct. 30, 2023]
§ 388.107
Commission records exempt from public disclosure.
The following records are exempt from disclosure.
(a)(1) Records specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy, and
(2) Those records are in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order;
(b) Records related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of an agency;
(c) Records specifically exempted from disclosure by statute, provided that such statute:
(1) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue, or
(2) Establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(d) Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(e) Interagency or intraagency memoranda or letters which would not be available by law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the
agency, except that the deliberative process privilege shall not exempt any record 25 years or older.
(f) Personnel and medical files and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(g) Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only to the extent that the production of such law enforcement records or information:
(1) Could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings,
(2) Would deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication,
(3) Could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy,
(4) Could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of a confidential source, including a state, local, or foreign agency or authority or any private institution which furnished information on a confidential basis, and, in the case of a record or information compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, information furnished by a confidential source,
(5) Would disclose techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions, or would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law, or
(6) Could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual;
(h) Geological and geophysical information and data, including maps, concerning wells.
[Order 488, 53 FR 1473, Jan. 20, 1988, as amended by Order 597, 63 FR 5453, Feb. 3, 1998; Order 832, 81 FR 86575, Dec. 1, 2016]
§ 388.108
Requests for Commission records not available from the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a person may request access to Commission records, including records maintained in electronic format, that are not available through the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov,
by using the following procedures:
(i) The request must be in writing, addressed to the Director, Office of External Affairs, and clearly marked “Freedom of Information Act Request.”
(ii) The request must include:
(A) A statement by the requester of a willingness to pay a reasonable fee or fees not to exceed a specific amount, or
(B) A request for waiver or reduction or fees.
(iii) The request must identify the fee category of the request, consistent with the provisions of § 388.109(b) (1) and (2).
(2) A request that fails to provide the identification required in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section will not be processed until the Director, Office of External Affairs, can ascertain the requester's fee category.
(3) A request for records received by the Commission not addressed and marked as indicated in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section will be so addressed and marked by Commission personnel as soon as it is properly identified, and forwarded immediately to the Director, Office of External Affairs.
(4) Requests made pursuant to this section will be considered to be received upon actual receipt by the Director, Office of External Affairs, unless otherwise indicated in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(5) Except for the purpose of making a determination regarding expedited processing under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, no request will be deemed received while there is an unresolved fee waiver issue under § 388.109(b)(6), unless the requester has provided a written statement agreeing to pay some or all fees pending the outcome of the waiver question.
(b)(1)
Multitrack processing.
Upon receipt of a request, the Director, Office of External Affairs, will place the request in one of three tracks for processing:
(i) Track One—records that are readily identifiable and were previously cleared for release (including those
subject to multiple requests and placed on
https://www.ferc.gov
);
(ii) Track Two—records that are readily identifiable, and require limited review; and
(iii) Track Three—complex and/or voluminous records requiring a significant search and/or review.
(2) Each track specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be processed on a first in, first out basis, where practicable. A requester may modify a request to obtain processing on a faster track.
(c)(1)
Timing of response.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(4) and (d)(3) of this section, within 20 working days after receipt of the request for agency records, the Director, Office of External Affairs, will comply with the request or deny the request in whole or in part, and will notify the requester of the determination, of the reasons for a decision to withhold any part of a requested document, and of the right of the requester to appeal any adverse determination in writing to the General Counsel or General Counsel's designee.
(2) The Director, Office of External Affairs, will attempt to provide records in the form or format requested, where feasible, but will not provide more than one copy of any record to a requester.
(3) Any determination by the Director, Office of External Affairs, to withhold information will, where feasible, indicate the approximate volume of information withheld, and will indicate, for partially-released materials, where redactions have been made, unless to do so would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption.
(4) The Director will consider whether partial disclosure of information is possible whenever it is determined that a document is exempt and will take reasonable steps to segregate and release nonexempt information.
(5) The Director will only withhold information where it is reasonably foreseeable that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption or disclosure is prohibited by law or otherwise exempted from disclosure under FOIA Exemption 3.
(d)(1)
Expedited processing.
A requester may seek expedited processing on the basis of a compelling need. Expedited processing will be granted if the requester demonstrates that:
(i) Failure to obtain the records on an expedited basis can reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual, or
(ii) In the case of a requester primarily engaged in the dissemination of information, there is an urgency to inform the public concerning Federal Government activity.
(2) A request for expedited processing under this section must be supported with detailed credible documentation, including a statement certified to be true and correct to the requester's best knowledge and belief.
(3) The Director, Office of External Affairs, will decide within 10 calendar days of receipt of the request whether it is eligible for expedited processing. The Director will notify the requester of the reasons for denial of expedited processing and of the right of the requester to appeal to the General Counsel or General Counsel's designee.
(e) The procedure for appeal of denial of a request for Commission records, or denial of a request for expedited processing, is set forth in § 388.110.
[Order 488, 53 FR 1473, Jan. 20, 1988, as amended by Order 562, 58 FR 62521, Nov. 29, 1993; Order 597, 63 FR 5453, Feb. 3, 1998; Order 832, 81 FR 86575, Dec. 1, 2016; Order 899, 88 FR 74033, Oct. 30, 2023]
§ 388.109
Fees for record requests.
(a)
Fees for records available through the Commission's website.
(1) The fee for finding and duplicating records available from the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov,
will vary depending on the size and complexity of the request. A person can obtain a copy of the schedule of fees from the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov.
In addition, copies of data extracted from the Commission's files through electronic media are available on a reimbursable basis, upon written request to the Commission.
(2) Stenographic reports of Commission hearings are made by a private contractor. Interested persons may obtain copies of public hearing transcripts from the contractor at prices set in the contract, or through the search and duplication service noted
above. Copies of the contract are available for public inspection on the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov.
(b)
Fees for records not available through the Commission's website (FOIA or CEII requests).
The cost of duplication of records not available from the Commission's website,
https://www.ferc.gov,
will depend on the number of documents requested, the time necessary to locate the documents requested, and the category of the persons requesting the records. The procedures for appeal of denial of requests for fee waiver or reduction are set forth in § 388.110.
(1)
Definitions:
For the purpose of paragraph (b) of this section.
(i)
Commercial use
request means a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers commercial trade, or profit interests as these phrases are commonly known or have been interpreted by the courts in the context of the Freedom of Information Act.
(ii)
Educational institution
refers to a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, and an institution of vocational education, which operates a program of scholarly research.
(iii)
Noncommercial scientific institution
refers to an installation that is not operated on a commercial basis and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
(iv)
Representatives of the news media
refers to any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. The term
news
means information that is about current events that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large, and publishers of periodicals (but only in those instances when the periodicals can qualify as disseminations of “news”) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. These examples are not intended to be all-inclusive. Moreover, as traditional methods of news delivery evolve (e.g. electronic dissemination of newspapers through telecommunication services), such alternative media may be included in this category. A
freelance
journalist may be regarded as working for a news organization if the journalist can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization, even though the journalist is not actually employed by the news organization. A publication contract would be the clearest proof, but the Commission may also look to the past publication record of a requester in making this determination.
(2)
Fees.
(i) If documents are requested for commercial use, the Commission will charge the employee's hourly pay rate plus 16% for benefits for document search time and for document review time, and 15 cents per page for duplication. Commercial use requests are not entitled to two hours of free search time or 100 free pages of reproduction of documents.
(ii) If documents are not sought for commercial use and the request is made by an educational or non-commercial scientific institution, whose purpose is scholarly or scientific research, or a representative of the news media, the Commission will charge 15 cents per page for duplication. There is no charge for the first 100 pages.
(iii) For a request not described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, the Commission will charge the employees hourly pay rate plus 16 percent for benefits for document search and 15 cents per page for duplication. There is no charge for the first 100 pages of reproduction and the first two hours of search time will be furnished without charge.
(iv) The Director, Office of External Affairs, will normally provide documents by regular mail, with postage prepaid by the Commission. However, the requester may authorize special delivery, such as express mail, at the requester's own expense.
(v) The Commission, or its designee, may establish minimum fees below which no charges will be collected, if it determines that the costs of routine collection and processing of the fees
are likely to equal or exceed the amount of the fees. If total fees assessed by Commission staff for a Freedom of Information Act request are less than the appropriate threshold, the Commission may not charge the requesters.
(vi) Payment of fees must be by check or money order made payable to the U.S. Treasury.
(vii) Requesters may not file multiple requests at the same time, each seeking portions of a document or documents, solely in order to avoid payment of fees. When the Commission reasonably believes that a requester, or a group of requesters acting in concert, is attempting to break a request down into a series of requests for the purpose of evading assessment of fees, or otherwise reasonably believes that two or more requests constitute a single request, the Commission may aggregate any such requests accordingly. The Commission will not aggregate multiple requests on unrelated subjects from a requester. Aggregated requests may qualify for an extension of time under § 388.110(b).
(3)
Fees for unsuccessful search.
The Commission may assess charges for time spent searching, even if it fails to locate the records, or if records located are determined to be exempt from disclosure. If the Commission estimates that search charges are likely to exceed $25, it will notify the requester of the estimated amount of search fees, unless the requester has indicated in advance willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. The requester can meet with Commission personnel with the object of reformulating the request to meet his or her needs at a lower cost.
(4)
Interest—notice and rate.
The Commission will assess interest charges on an unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the day on which the billing was sent. Interest will be at the rate prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the date of the billing.
(5)
Advance payments.
The Commission will require a requester to make an advance payment,
i.e.
, payments before work is commenced or continued on a request, if:
(i) The Commission estimates or determines that allowable charges that a requester may be required to pay are likely to exceed $250. The Commission will notify the requester of the estimated cost and either require satisfactory assurance of full payment where the requester has a history of prompt payment of fees, or require advance payment of charges if a requester has no history of payment; or
(ii) A requester has previously failed to pay a fee charged in a timely fashion. The Commission will require the requester to pay the full amount owed plus any applicable interest, and to make an advance payment of the full amount of the estimated fee before the Commission will begin to process a new request or a pending request from that requester. When the Commission requires advance payment or an agreement to pay under this paragraph, or under § 388.108(a)(5), the administrative time limits prescribed in this part will begin only after the Commission has received the required payments, or agreements.
(c)
Fee reduction or waiver.
(1) Any fee described in this section may be reduced or waived if the requester demonstrates that disclosure of the information sought is:
(i) In the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government, and
(ii) Not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(2) The Commission will consider the following criteria to determine the public interest standard:
(i) Whether the subject of the requested records concerns the operations or activities of the government;
(ii) Whether the disclosure is likely to contribute to an understanding of government operations or activities;
(iii) Whether disclosure of the requested information will contribute to public understanding; and
(iv) Whether the disclosure is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of government operations or facilities.
(3) The Commission will consider the following criteria to determine the commercial interest of the requester:
(i) Whether the requester has a commercial interest that would be
furthered by the requested disclosure; and, if so
(ii) Whether the magnitude of the identified commercial interest of the requester is sufficiently large, in comparison with the public interest in disclosure, that disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(4) This request for fee reduction or waiver must accompany the initial request for records and will be decided under the same procedures used for record requests.
(d)
Debt collection.
The Commission will use the authorities mandated in the Debt Collection Act of 1982, 31 U.S.C. 3711, 3716-3719 (1982), including disclosure to consumer reporting agencies and use of collection agencies, where appropriate, to encourage payment of outstanding unpaid FOIA invoices.
(e)
Annual adjustment of fees
—(1)
Update and publication.
The Commission, by its designee, the Executive Director, will update the fees established in this section each fiscal year. The Executive Director will publish the fees in the
Federal Register.
(2)
Payment of updated fees.
The fee applicable to a particular Freedom of Information Act request will be the fee in effect on the date that the request is received.
(f) The Commission will not charge search fees (or duplication fees for requesters with preferred fee status) where, after extending the time limit for unusual circumstances, as described in § 388.110, the Director does not provide a timely determination.
(1) If there are unusual circumstances, as described in § 388.110, and there are more than 5,000 responsive pages to the request, the Commission may charge search fees (or, for requesters in preferred fee status, may charge duplication fees) where the requester received timely written notice and the Commission has discussed with the requester via written mail, electronic mail, or telephone (or made not less than 3 good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request; or
(2) If a court determines that exceptional circumstances exist, the Commission's failure to comply with a time limit will be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
[Order 488, 53 FR 1473, Jan. 20, 1988, as amended by Order 597, 63 FR 5454, Feb. 3, 1998; Order 640, 65 FR 33448, May 24, 2000; Order 625, 67 FR 21996, May 2, 2002; Order 648, 69 FR 41191, July 8, 2004; 72 FR 63985, Nov. 14, 2007; 73 FR 45609, Aug. 6, 2008; Order 832, 81 FR 86575, Dec. 1, 2016; Order 899, 88 FR 74033, Oct. 30, 2023]
§ 388.110
Procedure for appeal of denial of requests for Commission records not publicly available, denial of requests for fee waiver or reduction, and denial of requests for expedited processing.
(a)(1) Determination letters shall indicate that a requester may seek assistance from the FOIA Public Liaison. A person whose request for records, request for fee waiver, or request for expedited processing is denied in whole or in part may seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services, or may appeal the determination to the General Counsel or General Counsel's designee within 90 days of the determination.
(2) Appeals filed pursuant to this section must be in writing, addressed to the General Counsel of the Commission, and clearly marked “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.” Such an appeal received by the Commission not addressed and marked as indicated in this paragraph will be so addressed and marked by Commission personnel as soon as it is properly identified and then will be forwarded to the General Counsel. Appeals taken pursuant to this paragraph will be considered to be received upon actual receipt by the General Counsel.
(3) The General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee will make a determination with respect to any appeal within 20 working days after the receipt of such appeal. An appeal of the denial of expedited processing will be considered as expeditiously as possible within the 20 working day period. If, on appeal, the denial of the request for records, fee reduction, or expedited processing is upheld in whole or in part, the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee will notify the person making the appeal of the provisions for judicial review of that determination.
(b)(1)
Extension of time.
In unusual circumstances, the time limits prescribed for making the initial determination pursuant to § 388.108 and for deciding an appeal pursuant to this section may be extended by up to 10 working days, by the Secretary, who will send written notice to the requester setting forth the reasons for such extension and the date on which a determination or appeal is expected to be dispatched.
(2) The extension permitted by paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be made longer than 10 working days when the Commission notifies the requester within the initial response time that the request cannot be processed in the specified time, and the requester is provided an opportunity to limit the scope of the request to allow processing within 20 working days; or to arrange with the Commission an alternative time frame.
(3) Two or more requests aggregated into a single request under § 388.109(b)(2)(vii) may qualify for an extension of time if the requests, as aggregated, otherwise satisfy the unusual circumstances specified in this section.
(4)
Unusual circumstances
means:
(i) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the requests;
(ii) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or
(iii) The need for consultation, which will be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components of the agency having substantial subject-matter interest therein.
(5) Whenever the Commission extends the time limit, pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, by more than ten additional working days, the written notice will notify the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.
[Order 488, 53 FR 1473, Jan. 20, 1988, as amended by Order 597, 63 FR 5455, Feb. 3, 1998; Order 832, 81 FR 86575, Dec. 1, 2016]
§ 388.111
Procedures in event of subpoena.
(a)(1) The procedures specified in this section will apply to all subpoenas directed to Commission employees that relate in any way to the employees' official duties. These procedures will also apply to subpoenas directed to former Commission employees if the subpoenas seek nonpublic materials or information acquired during Commission employment. The provisions of paragraph (c) of this section will also apply to subpoenas directed to the Commission.
(2) For purposes of this section,
(i)
Employees,
except where otherwise specified, includes “special government employees” and other Commission employees; and
(ii)
Nonpublic
includes any material or information which is exempt from availability for public inspection and copying;
(iii)
Special government employees
includes consultants and other employees as defined by section 202 of Title 18 of the United States Code.
(iv)
Subpoena
means any compulsory process in a case or matter, including a case or matter to which the Commission is not a party;
(b) Any employee who is served with a subpoena must promptly advise the General Counsel of the Commission of the service of the subpoena, the nature of the documents or information sought, and all relevant facts and circumstances. Any former employee who is served with a subpoena that concerns nonpublic information shall promptly advise the General Counsel of the Commission of the service of the subpoena, the nature of the documents or information sought, and all relevant facts and circumstances.
(c) A party causing a subpoena to be issued to the Commission or any employee or former employee of the Commission must furnish a statement to the General Counsel of the Commission. This statement must set forth the party's interest in the case or matter,
the relevance of the desired testimony or documents, and a discussion of whether the desired testimony or documents are reasonably available from other sources. If testimony is desired, the statement must also contain a general summary of the testimony and a discussion of whether Commission records could be produced and used in lieu of testimony. Any authorization for testimony will be limited to the scope of the demand as summarized in such statement.
(d) Commission records or information which are not part of the public record will be produced only upon authorization by the Commission.
(e) The Commission or its designee will consider and act upon subpoenas under this section with due regard for statutory restrictions, the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, and the public interest, taking into account factors such as applicable privileges including the deliberative process privilege; the need to conserve the time of employees for conducting official business; the need to avoid spending the time and money of the United States for private purposes; the need to maintain impartiality between private litigants in cases where a substantial government interest is not involved; and the established legal standards for determining whether justification exists for the disclosure of confidential information and records.
(f) The Commission authorizes the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee to make determinations under this section.
§ 388.112
Requests for privileged treatment for documents submitted to the Commission.
(a)
Scope.
By following the procedures specified in this section, any person submitting a document to the Commission may request privileged treatment for some or all of the information contained in a particular document that it claims is exempt from the mandatory public disclosure requirements of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 (FOIA), and should be withheld from public disclosure. For the purposes of the Commission's filing requirements, non-CEII subject to an outstanding claim of exemption from disclosure under FOIA will be referred to as privileged material. The rules governing CEII are contained in § 388.113.
(b)
Procedures for filing and obtaining privileged material.
(1) General Procedures. A person requesting that material be treated as privileged information must include in its filing a justification for such treatment in accordance with the filing procedures posted on the Commission's Web site at
http://www.ferc.gov.
A person requesting that a document filed with the Commission be treated as privileged in whole or in part must designate the document as privileged in making an electronic filing or clearly indicate a request for such treatment on a paper filing. The cover page and pages or portions of the document containing material for which privileged treatment is claimed should be clearly labeled in bold, capital lettering, indicating that it contains privileged or confidential information, as appropriate, and marked “DO NOT RELEASE.” The filer also must submit to the Commission a public version with the information that is claimed to be privileged material redacted, to the extent practicable.
(2) Procedures for Proceedings with a Right to Intervene. The following procedures set forth the methods for filing and obtaining access to material that is filed as privileged in complaint proceedings and in any proceeding to which a right to intervention exists:
(i) If a person files material as privileged material in a complaint proceeding or other proceeding to which a right to intervention exists, that person must include a proposed form of protective agreement with the filing, or identify a protective agreement that has already been filed in the proceeding that applies to the filed material. This requirement does not apply to material submitted in hearing or settlement proceedings, or if the only material for which privileged treatment is claimed consists of landowner lists or privileged information filed under §§ 380.12(f) and 380.16(f) of this chapter.
(ii) The filer must provide the public version of the document and its proposed form of protective agreement to
each entity that is required to be served with the filing.
(iii) Any person who is a participant in the proceeding or has filed a motion to intervene or notice of intervention in the proceeding may make a written request to the filer for a copy of the complete, non-public version of the document. The request must include an executed copy of the protective agreement and a statement of the person's right to party or participant status or a copy of their motion to intervene or notice of intervention. Any person may file an objection to the proposed form of protective agreement. A filer, or any other person, may file an objection to disclosure, generally or to a particular person or persons who have sought intervention.
(iv) If no objection to disclosure is filed, the filer must provide a copy of the complete, non-public document to the requesting person within 5 days after receipt of the written request that is accompanied by an executed copy of the protective agreement. If an objection to disclosure is filed, the filer shall not provide the non-public document to the person or class of persons identified in the objection until ordered by the Commission or a decisional authority.
(v) For material filed in proceedings set for trial-type hearing or settlement judge proceedings, a participant's access to material for which privileged treatment is claimed is governed by the presiding official's protective order.
(vi) For landowner lists, information filed as privileged under §§ 380.12(f) and 380.16(f) of this chapter, forms filed with the Commission, and other documents not covered above, access to this material can be sought pursuant to a FOIA request under § 388.108. Applicants are not required under paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section to provide intervenors with landowner lists and the other materials identified in the previous sentence.
(c)
Effect of privilege or CEII claim.
(1) For documents filed with the Commission:
(i) The documents for which privileged treatment is claimed will be maintained in the Commission's document repositories as non-public until such time as the Commission may determine that the document is not entitled to the treatment sought and is subject to disclosure consistent with § 388.108. By treating the documents as nonpublic, the Commission is not making a determination on any claim of privilege status. The Commission retains the right to make determinations with regard to any claim of privilege status, and the discretion to release information as necessary to carry out its jurisdictional responsibilities.
(ii) The request for privileged treatment and the public version of the document will be made available while the request is pending.
(2) For documents submitted to Commission staff. The notification procedures of paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section will be followed before making a document public.
(d)
Notification of request and opportunity to comment.
When a FOIA requester seeks a document for which privilege status has been claimed, or when the Commission itself is considering release of such information, the Commission official who will decide whether to release the information or any other appropriate Commission official will notify the person who submitted the document and give the person an opportunity (at least five calendar days) in which to comment in writing on the request. A copy of this notice will be sent to the requester.
(e)
Notification before release.
Notice of a decision by the Commission, the Chairman of the Commission, the Director, Office of External Affairs, the General Counsel or General Counsel's designee, a presiding officer in a proceeding under part 385 of this chapter, or any other appropriate official to deny a claim of privilege, in whole or in part, will be given to any person claiming that the information is privileged no less than 5 calendar days before disclosure. The notice will briefly explain why the person's objections to disclosure are not sustained by the Commission. A copy of this notice will be sent to the FOIA requester.
(f) Notification of suit in Federal courts. When a FOIA requester brings suit to compel disclosure of information for which a person has claimed privileged treatment, the Commission
will notify the person who submitted the documents of the suit.
[Order 769, 77 FR 65476, Oct. 29, 2012, as amended by Order 833, 81 FR 93748, Dec. 21, 2016]
§ 388.113
Critical Energy/Electric Infrastructure Information (CEII).
(a)
Scope.
This section governs the procedures for submitting, designating, handling, sharing, and disseminating Critical Energy/Electric Infrastructure Information (CEII) submitted to or generated by the Commission. The Commission reserves the right to restrict access to previously filed information as well as Commission-generated information containing CEII. Nothing in this section limits the ability of any other Federal agency to take all necessary steps to protect information within its custody or control that is necessary to ensure the safety and security of the electric grid. To the extent necessary, such agency may consult with the CEII Coordinator regarding the treatment or designation of such information.
(b)
Purpose.
The procedures in this section implement section 215A of the Federal Power Act, and provide a comprehensive overview of the manner in which the Commission will implement the CEII program.
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Critical electric infrastructure information
means information related to critical electric infrastructure, or proposed critical electrical infrastructure, generated by or provided to the Commission or other Federal agency other than classified national security information, that is designated as critical electric infrastructure information by the Commission or the Secretary of the Department of Energy pursuant to section 215A(d) of the Federal Power Act. Such term includes information that qualifies as critical energy infrastructure information under the Commission's regulations. Critical Electric Infrastructure Information is exempt from mandatory disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3) and shall not be made available by any Federal, State, political subdivision or tribal authority pursuant to any Federal, State, political subdivision or tribal law requiring public disclosure of information or records pursuant to section 215A(d)(1)(A) and (B) of the Federal Power Act.
(2)
Critical energy infrastructure information
means specific engineering, vulnerability, or detailed design information about proposed or existing critical infrastructure that:
(i) Relates details about the production, generation, transportation, transmission, or distribution of energy;
(ii) Could be useful to a person in planning an attack on critical infrastructure;
(iii) Is exempt from mandatory disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552; and
(iv) Does not simply give the general location of the critical infrastructure.
(3)
Critical electric infrastructure
means a system or asset of the bulk-power system, whether physical or virtual, the incapacity or destruction of which would negatively affect national security, economic security, public health or safety, or any combination of such matters.
(4)
Critical infrastructure
means existing and proposed systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, the incapacity or destruction of which would negatively affect security, economic security, public health or safety, or any combination of those matters.
(d)
Criteria and procedures for determining what constitutes CEII.
The following criteria and procedures apply to information labeled as CEII:
(1) For information submitted to the Commission:
(i) A person requesting that information submitted to the Commission be treated as CEII must include with its submission a justification for such treatment in accordance with the filing procedures posted on the Commission's Web site at
http://www.ferc.gov.
The justification must provide how the information, or any portion of the information, qualifies as CEII, as the terms are defined in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. The submission must also include a clear statement of the date the information was submitted to the
Commission, how long the CEII designation should apply to the information and support for the period proposed. Failure to provide the justification or other required information could result in denial of the designation and release of the information to the public.
(ii) In addition to the justification required by paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, a person requesting that information submitted to the Commission be treated as CEII must clearly label the cover page and pages or portions of the information for which CEII treatment is claimed in bold, capital lettering, indicating that it contains CEII, as appropriate, and marked “DO NOT RELEASE.” The submitter must also segregate those portions of the information that contain CEII (or information that reasonably could be expected to lead to the disclosure of the CEII) wherever feasible. The submitter must also submit to the Commission a public version with the information where CEII is redacted, to the extent practicable.
(iii) If a person files material as CEII in a complaint proceeding or other proceeding to which a right to intervention exists, that person must include a proposed form of protective agreement with the filing, or identify a protective agreement that has already been filed in the proceeding that applies to the filed material.
(iv) The information for which CEII treatment is claimed will be maintained in the Commission's files as non-public until such time as the Commission may determine that the information is not entitled to the treatment sought. By treating the information as CEII, the Commission is not making a determination on any claim of CEII status. The Commission retains the right to make determinations with regard to any claim of CEII status at any time, and the discretion to release information as necessary to carry out its jurisdictional responsibilities. Although unmarked information may be eligible for CEII treatment, the Commission will treat unmarked information as CEII only if it is properly designated as CEII pursuant to Commission regulations.
(v) The CEII Coordinator will evaluate whether the submitted information or portions of the information are covered by the definitions in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section prior to making a designation as CEII.
(vi) Subject to the exceptions set forth in paragraph (f)(5) of this section, when a CEII requester seeks information for which CEII status has been claimed, or when the Commission itself is considering release of such information, the CEII Coordinator or any other appropriate Commission official will notify the person who submitted the information and give the person an opportunity (at least five business days) in which to comment in writing on the request. A copy of this notice will be sent to the requester. Notice of a decision by the Commission, or the CEII Coordinator to make a release of CEII, will be given to any person claiming that the information is CEII no less than five business days before disclosure. The notice will respond to any objections to disclosure from the submitter that are not sustained. Where applicable, a copy of this notice will be sent to the CEII requester.
(2) For Commission-generated information:
(i) After consultation with the Office Director for the office that created the information, or the Office Director's designee, the CEII Coordinator will designate Commission-generated information as CEII after determining that the information or portions of the information are covered by the definitions in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. Commission-generated CEII shall include clear markings to indicate the information is CEII and the date of the designation.
(ii) The Commission will segregate non-CEII from Commission-generated CEII or information that reasonably could be expected to lead to the disclosure of CEII wherever feasible.
(e)
Duration of the CEII designation.
All CEII designations will be subject to the following conditions:
(1) A designation may last for up to a five-year period, unless re-designated. In making a determination as to whether the designation should be extended, the CEII Coordinator will take into account information provided in
response to paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, and any other information, as appropriate.
(2) A designation may be removed at any time, in whole or in part, if the Commission determines that the unauthorized disclosure of CEII could no longer be used to impair the security or reliability of the bulk-power system or distribution facilities or any other form of energy infrastructure.
(3) The Commission will treat CEII or documents marked as CEII as non-public after the designation has lapsed until the CEII Coordinator determines to un-designate the information.
(4) If a CEII designation is removed, the submitter will receive notice and an opportunity to comment. The CEII Coordinator will notify the submitter of the information and give the submitter an opportunity (at least five business days) in which to comment in writing prior to the removal of the designation. Notice of a removal decision will be given to any submitter claiming that the information is CEII no less than five business days before disclosure. The notice will briefly explain why the submitter's objections to the removal of the designation are not sustained by the Commission
(f)
Voluntary sharing of CEII.
The Commission, taking into account standards of the Electric Reliability Organization, will facilitate voluntary sharing of CEII with, between, and by Federal, state, political subdivision, and tribal authorities; the Electric Reliability Organization; regional entities; information sharing and analysis centers established pursuant to Presidential Decision Directive 63; owners, operators, and users of critical electric infrastructure in the United States; and other entities determined appropriate by the Commission. The process will be as follows:
(1) The Director of any Office of the Commission or his designee that wishes to voluntarily share CEII shall consult with the CEII Coordinator prior to the Office Director or his designee making a determination on whether to voluntarily share the CEII.
(2) Consistent with paragraph (d) of this section, the Commission retains the discretion to release information as necessary to carry out its jurisdictional responsibilities in facilitating voluntary sharing or, in the case of information provided to other federal agencies, the Commission retains the discretion to release information as necessary for those agencies to carry out their jurisdictional responsibilities.
(3) All entities receiving CEII must execute either a non-disclosure agreement or an acknowledgement and agreement. A copy of each agreement will be maintained by the Office Director with a copy to the CEII Coordinator.
(4) When the Commission voluntarily shares CEII pursuant to this subsection, the Commission may impose additional restrictions on how the information may be used and maintained.
(5) Submitters of CEII shall receive notification of a limited release of CEII no less than five business days before disclosure, except in instances where voluntary sharing is necessary for law enforcement purposes, to maintain infrastructure security, to address potential threats, when notice would not be practicable, and where there is an urgent need to quickly disseminate the information. When prior notice is not given, the Commission will provide submitters of CEII notice of a limited release of the CEII as soon as practicable.
(g)
Accessing CEII.
(1) An owner/operator of a facility, including employees and officers of the owner/operator, may obtain CEII relating to its own facility, excluding Commission-generated information except inspection reports/operation reports and any information directed to the owner-operators, directly from Commission staff without going through the procedures outlined in paragraph (g)(5) of this section. Non-employee agents of an owner/operator of such facility may obtain CEII relating to the owner/operator's facility in the same manner as owner/operators as long as they present written authorization from the owner/operator to obtain such information. Notice of such requests must be given to the CEII Coordinator, who shall track this information.
(2) An employee of a federal agency acting within the scope of his or her
federal employment may obtain CEII directly from Commission staff without following the procedures outlined in paragraph (g)(5) of this section. Any Commission employee at or above the level of division director or its equivalent may rule on requests for access to CEII by a representative of a federal agency. To obtain access to CEII, an agency employee must sign an acknowledgement and agreement, which states that the agency will protect the CEII in the same manner as the Commission and will refer any requests for the information to the Commission. Notice of each such request also must be given to the CEII Coordinator, who shall track this information.
(3) A landowner whose property is crossed by or in the vicinity of a project may receive detailed alignment sheets containing CEII directly from Commission staff without submitting a non-disclosure agreement as outlined in paragraph (g)(5) of this section. A landowner must provide Commission staff with proof of his or her property interest in the vicinity of a project.
(4) Any person who is a participant in a proceeding or has filed a motion to intervene or notice of intervention in a proceeding may make a written request to the filer for a copy of the complete CEII version of the document without following the procedures outlined in paragraph (g)(5) of this section. The request must include an executed copy of the applicable protective agreement and a statement of the person's right to party or participant status or a copy of the person's motion to intervene or notice of intervention. Any person may file an objection to the proposed form of protective agreement. A filer, or any other person, may file an objection to disclosure, generally or to a particular person or persons who have sought intervention. If no objection to disclosure is filed, the filer must provide a copy of the complete, non-public document to the requesting person within five business days after receipt of the written request that is accompanied by an executed copy of the protective agreement. If an objection to disclosure is filed, the filer shall not provide the non-public document to the person or class of persons identified in the objection until ordered by the Commission or a decisional authority.
(5) If any requester not described above in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section has a particular need for information designated as CEII, the requester may request the information using the following procedures:
(i) File a signed, written request with the Commission's CEII Coordinator. The request must contain the following:
(A) Requester's name (including any other name(s) which the requester has used and the dates the requester used such name(s)), title, address, and telephone number; and the name, address, and telephone number of the person or entity on whose behalf the information is requested;
(B) A detailed Statement of Need, which must state: The extent to which a particular function is dependent upon access to the information; why the function cannot be achieved or performed without access to the information; an explanation of whether other information is available to the requester that could facilitate the same objective; how long the information will be needed; whether or not the information is needed to participate in a specific proceeding (with that proceeding identified); and an explanation of whether the information is needed expeditiously.
(C) An executed non-disclosure agreement as described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section;
(D) A signed statement attesting to the accuracy of the information provided in the request; and
(E) A requester shall provide his or her date and place of birth upon request, if it is determined by the CEII Coordinator that this information is necessary to process the request.
(ii) A requester who seeks the information on behalf of all employees of an organization should clearly state that the information is sought for the organization, that the requester is authorized to seek the information on behalf of the organization, and that all individuals in the organization that have access to the CEII will agree to be bound by a non-disclosure agreement that must be executed.
(iii) After the request is received, the CEII Coordinator will determine if the information is CEII, and, if it is, whether to release the CEII to the requester. The CEII Coordinator will balance the requester's need for the information against the sensitivity of the information. If the requester is determined to be eligible to receive the information requested, the CEII Coordinator will determine what conditions, if any, to place on release of the information.
(iv) If the CEII Coordinator determines that the CEII requester has not demonstrated a valid or legitimate need for the CEII or that access to the CEII should be denied for other reasons, this determination may be appealed to the General Counsel pursuant to § 388.110. The General Counsel will decide whether the information is properly classified as CEII, which by definition is exempt from release under FOIA, and whether the Commission should in its discretion make such CEII available to the CEII requester in view of the requester's asserted legitimacy and need.
(v) Once a CEII requester has been verified by Commission staff as a legitimate requester who does not pose a security risk, his or her verification will be valid for the remainder of that calendar year. Such a requester is not required to provide detailed information about himself or herself with subsequent requests during the calendar year. He or she is also not required to file a non-disclosure agreement with subsequent requests during the calendar year because the original non-disclosure agreement will apply to all subsequent releases of CEII.
(vi) An organization that is granted access to CEII pursuant to paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section may seek to add additional individuals to the non-disclosure agreement within one (1) year of the date of the initial CEII request. Such an organization must provide the names of the added individuals to the CEII Coordinator and certify that notice of each added individual has been given to the submitter. Any newly added individuals must execute a supplement to the original non-disclosure agreement indicating their acceptance of its terms. If there is no written opposition within five business days of notifying the CEII Coordinator and the submitter concerning the addition of any newly added individuals, the CEII Coordinator will issue a standard notice accepting the addition of these names to the non-disclosure agreement. If the submitter files a timely opposition with the CEII Coordinator, the CEII Coordinator will issue a formal determination addressing the merits of such opposition. If an organization that is granted access to CEII pursuant to paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section wants to add new individuals to its non-disclosure agreement more than one year after the date of its initial CEII request, the organization must submit a new CEII request pursuant to paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section and a new non-disclosure agreement for each new individual added.
(vii) The CEII Coordinator will attempt to respond to the requester under this section according to the timing required for responses under the FOIA in § 388.108(c).
(viii) Fees for processing CEII requests will be determined in accordance with § 388.109.
(ix) Nothing in this section should be construed as requiring the release of proprietary information, personally identifiable information, cultural resource information, information on rare species of plants and animals, and other comparable data protected by statute or any privileged information, including information protected by the deliberative process privilege.
(h)
Duty to protect CEII.
Unauthorized disclosure of CEII is prohibited.
(1) To ensure that the Commissioners, Commission employees, and Commission contractors protect CEII from unauthorized disclosure, internal controls will describe the handling, marking, and security controls for CEII.
(2) Any individual who requests information pursuant to paragraph (g)(5) of this section must sign and execute a non-disclosure agreement, which indicates the individual's willingness to adhere to limitations on the use and disclosure of the information requested. The non-disclosure agreement will, at a minimum, require the following: CEII will only be used for the purpose for
which it was requested; CEII may only be discussed with authorized recipients; CEII must be kept in a secure place in a manner that would prevent unauthorized access; CEII must be destroyed or returned to the Commission upon request; the Commission may audit the recipient's compliance with the non-disclosure agreement; CEII provided pursuant to the agreement is not subject to release under either FOIA or Sunshine Laws; a recipient is obligated to protect the CEII even after a designation has lapsed until the CEII Coordinator determines the information should no longer be designated as CEII under paragraph (e)(2) of this section; and a recipient is required to promptly report all unauthorized disclosures of CEII to the Commission.
(i)
Sanctions.
Any officers, employees, or agents of the Commission who knowingly and willfully disclose CEII in a manner that is not authorized under this section will be subject to appropriate sanctions, such as removal from the federal service, or possible referral for criminal prosecution. Commissioners who knowingly and willfully disclose CEII without authorization may be referred to the Department of Energy Inspector General. The Commission will take responsibility for investigating and, as necessary, imposing sanctions on its employees and agents.
(j)
Administrative appeals of CEII determinations.
(1) Submitters who receive a determination that the Commission intends to remove a CEII designation may appeal that determination. The submitter must file notice of its intent to appeal that determination within five business days of the determination. The notice of intent to file an appeal must be sent to the General Counsel, with a copy to the CEII Coordinator. A statement in support of the notice of appeal must be submitted to the General Counsel within 20 business days of the date of the determination. The appeal will be considered received upon receipt of the statement in support of the notice of appeal.
(2) Individuals who receive a determination denying a request for the release of CEII, in whole or in part, or a determination denying a request to change the designation of CEII may appeal such determinations. Such appeals must be submitted to the General Counsel within 20 business days of the date of the determination.
(3) The Commission's General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee will make a determination with respect to any appeal within 20 business days after the receipt of the appeal. If, on appeal, the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee upholds the determination in whole or in part, then the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee will notify the person submitting the appeal of the availability of judicial review.
(4) The time limits prescribed for the General Counsel or his designee to act on an appeal may be extended pursuant to § 388.110(b)(1).
(5) Prior to seeking judicial review in federal district court pursuant to section 215A(d)(11) of the Federal Power Act, a person who received a determination from the Commission concerning a CEII designation must first appeal the determination to the Commission's General Counsel.
[Order 833, 81 FR 93749, Dec. 21, 2016]
Pt. 389

# PART 389—OMB CONTROL NUMBERS FOR COMMISSION INFORMATION COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS

# Authority:
44 U.S.C. 3501-3520.
§ 389.101
OMB control numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
This part concerns Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control numbers assigned to information collection requirements. Current OMB control numbers are available at
https://www.ferc.gov
. For the most current information, interested persons should consult the Commission's website under “Enforcement Legal” and then “Legal” and then “Information Collections” or directly at
https://www.ferc.gov/enforcement-legal/legal/information-collections
.
[Order 878, 86 FR 54611, Oct. 4, 2021]
Pt. 390

# PART 390—ELECTRONIC REGISTRATION
Sec.
390.1
Electronic registration.
390.2
Activities requiring registration.
390.3
Waiver applications.
390.4
Exemptions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 551-557; 15 U.S.C. 717-717z, 3301-3432; 16 U.S.C. 791a-825r, 2601-2645; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 42 U.S.C. 7101-7352; 49 U.S.C. 60502; 49 App. U.S.C. 1-85 (1988).

# Source:
Order 891, 67 FR 52410, Aug. 12, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 390.1
Electronic registration.
Any person who wishes to engage in any of the activities listed in § 390.2 must register electronically through the Commission's web site, in compliance with instructions located on the Web site, at
http://www.ferc.gov.

# Effective Date Note:
At 68 FR 7416, Feb. 14, 2003, § 390.1 was suspended, effective Jan. 7, 2003.
§ 390.2
Activities requiring registration.
(a) Electronic registration is a requirement for the following activities:
(1) Submission of all documents in proceedings governed by 18 CFR part 385;
(2) Submission of Forms 1, 2, 6 and 423 pursuant to 18 CFR 141.1, 141.61, 260.1, and 357.2.
(3) Submission of reports in compliance with Order No. 2001.
(4) Filing of tariffs pursuant to 18 CFR 385.205.
(5) Receipt of service pursuant to 18 CFR 385.2010(a) or (b).
(b) Any person who wishes to subscribe to the Commission's automated document delivery system may register electronically but is not required to do so.
§ 390.3
Waiver applications.
(a) A person may satisfy the requirement of Sec. 390.1 by submitting a written statement showing good cause why the person is unable to register electronically, and including the name and address of the person serving as a contact. The statement must be mailed to the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 888 First Street, NE., Washington, DC 20426, or hand delivered to Room 1A at the same address.
(b) Persons who register pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will receive a unique numeric identifier that must appear on all paper submissions to the Commission. A submission that does not include the identifier will be rejected. Notification of such rejection will be sent to the submitter at the address indicated on the paper submission. A request for a waiver may be submitted simultaneously with a document submitted for filing. If the waiver is granted, the Secretary will add the assigned numeric identifier to the submitted document(s), but will not do so for subsequent submissions.
(c) A waiver under paragraph (a) of this section will be valid for one year from the date of issuance by the Secretary. The Secretary will send notice of the pending expiration to the registered person's address of record approximately three months prior to the expiration of the waiver. After the waiver expires, a person wishing to engage in any of the activities listed in § 390.2 must comply with § 390.1, or must apply for another waiver under paragraph (a) of this section.
[Order 891, 67 FR 52410, Aug. 12, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 21332, Apr. 26, 2005]
§ 390.4
Exemptions.
In instances in which the Commission receives communications from persons who are not registered under this part that relate to docketed proceedings and in which it appears that registration under this part offers no value to the person submitting the communication, the Commission may accept the communication for filing without requiring the person to comply with § 390.1 or § 390.3.
PARTS 391-399 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
18 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
18 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
Chapter I Policy statement
36321
2.27 (c) and (d) revised; eff. 4-27-20
10585
11 Authority citation revised
6760
11 Appendix A revised
6760
35 Order; eff. 5-5-20
13009
35 Order; eff. 10-1-20
13012
35 Policy statement
20152
35 Order
27681, 42692
35.28 (b)(10), (11), and (g)(12) added
67155
35.28 Technical correction
68450
38.1 Revised; eff. 4-27-20
10585
40 Policy statement; eff. 4-7-20
7197
40 Policy statement; eff. 4-13-20
8155, 8161
40 Policy statement
65207
153.4 Revised
40115
157.23 Added
40115
157.208 (d) Table I amended
15713
157.215 (a)(5) Table II amended
15713
250.16 (e)(1) revised
2018
292.101 (b)(12) through (16) added
54732
292.202 (t) added
54732
292.204 (a) revised
54732
292.207 (a), (b) introductory text, (2), (c), and (d) revised; (e) and (f) added
54732
292.304 (b)(6) through (8) added; (d) and (e) revised
54733
292.309 (c) through (f) revised
54735, 86725
375.102 Revised
9663
381.302 (a) amended
1103
375.302 (v) revised
54736
375.311 (r) and (s) revised
19385
375.315 (a) revised
19386
381.303 (a) amended
1103
381.304 (a) amended
1103
381.305 (a) amended
1103
381.403 Amended
1103
381.505 (a) amended
1103
385 Authority citation revised
2018
385 Order
60696
385.1504 (a) revised
2018
385.1602 Revised
2018
385.2001 Regulation at 84 FR 46440 eff. date confirmed
81798
2021
18 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
4.32 (a)(5)(ii) revised
42714
4.40 (a) revised
42714
4.50 (a)(1) and (3) revised
42714
4.60 (a)(2), (3), and (b) revised
42714
4.61 (a)(3), (b) introductory text, (d)(1) introductory text, and (2) introductory text revised
42714
4.60—4.61 (Subpart G) Heading revised
42714
4.71 (b)(1) and (2) revised
42714
4.201 (b)(1) and (3) through (5) revised
42714
4.401 (f)(3) removed
42715
5.18 (a)(5)(i) revised
42715
11 Authority citation revised
8855
11 Appendix A revised
8855
35 Compliance notification
21935
35 Policy statement
33853, 47562
35.28 (g)(12)(i) revised; eff. 6-1-21
16527
35.28 Technical correction
20627
37.6 (b)(2)(i) revised
29502
38.1 Revised
29502
40 Policy statement
22588
153 Order
7643
153.4 Revised; eff. 6-28-21
16302
154.404 Removed
29506
157 Authority citation revised; eff. 6-28-21
16302
157 Order
7643
157.22 Revised; eff. 6-28-21
16302
157.23 (b) revised
26160
157.23 Regulation at 86 FR 26160 eff. date confirmed
43077
157.208 (d) Table I amended
12257
157.215 (a)(5) Table II amended
12257
250.16 (e)(1) revised
8133
260.402 Removed
29506
284.12 (a)(1) and (2) revised
43598
284.123 (i) removed
29506
292.202 (h)(2) and (3) revised; (h)(4) added; eff. 4-5-21
8140
342 Order
9448
381.302 (a) amended
11425
381.303 (a) amended
11425
381.304 (a) amended
11425
381.305 (a) amended
11425
381.403 Amended
11425
381.505 (a) amended
11425
385.1504 (a) revised
8133
385.1602 Revised
8133
389.101 Revised
54611
2022
18 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
11 Appendix A revised
3190
12 Authority citation revised; eff. 4-11-22
1513
12.3 (b)(3), (4) introductory text, (ii), (v), and (xi) revised; (b)(4)(xiii) and (11) redesignated as (b)(4)(xix) and (14); new (b)(4)(xiii), new (11), (12), and (13); eff. 4-11-22
1513
12.3 Correction: (b)(4)(xiii) redesignated as (b)(4)(xiv); eff. 4-11-22
8411
12.4 (b)(1)(i), (2)(ii)(B), (iii)(A), (B), (c)(1), (2) introductory text, and (3) revised; (b)(2)(iii)(C), (D), and (d) added; eff. 4-11-22
1514
12.4 Correction: Instruction 3 amended
2702
12.10 (a)(1) and (b) revised; (a)(2) amended; eff. 4-11-22
1514
12.10 Correction: (b)(5) redesignated as (b)(4)
2702
12.10 Correction: (a)(1) revised; (a)(2) amended; eff. 4-11-22
8411
12.12 (a)(1)(ii) and (b)(3) revised; (d) added; eff. 4-11-22
1514
12.20 (a) amended; eff. 4-11-22
1515
12.22 (a)(1) introductory text and (2) introductory text amended; eff. 4-11-22
1515
12.24 (c)(3) amended; eff. 4-11-22
1515
12.31 Correction: (d) through (h) amended; eff. 4-11-22
8411
12.30—12.39 (Subpart D) Revised; eff. 4-11-22
1515
12.30—12.39 (Subpart D) Instruction renumbered
8411
12.40 Redesignated as 12.50; eff. 4-11-22
1519
12.40 Correction: Instruction renumbered; eff. 4-11-22
8411
12.41 Redesignated as 12.51; eff. 4-11-22
1519
12.41 Correction: Instruction renumbered; eff. 4-11-22
8411
12.42 Redesignated as 12.52; eff. 4-11-22
1519
12.42 Correction: Instruction renumbered; eff. 4-11-22
8411
12.43 Redesignated as 12.53; eff. 4-11-22
1519
12.43 Correction: Instruction renumbered; eff. 4-11-22
8411
12.44 Redesignated as 12.54; eff. 4-11-22
1519
12.44 Correction: Instruction renumbered; eff. 4-11-22
8411
12.50 Redesignated from 12.40; (a) amended; eff. 4-11-22
1519
12.51 Redesignated from 12.41; eff. 4-11-22
1519
12.52 Redesignated from 12.42 and revised; eff. 4-11-22
1519
12.53 Redesignated from 12.43; eff. 4-11-22
1519
12.54 Redesignated from 12.44; (b)(2) and (c)(2) amended; eff. 4-11-22
1519
12.60—12.65 (Subpart F) Added; eff. 4-11-22
1519
35 Order
31712
35.28 (b)(12) through (16), (c)(5), and (g)(13) added
2304
101 OMB numbers
76928
154 Policy statement
71511
157.208 (d) Table I revised
16391
157.215 (a)(5) Table II revised
16391
201 OMB numbers
76928
250.16 (e)(1) revised
2037
260 Policy statement
71511
284 Policy statement
71511
342 Order
4476
343 Policy statement
65163
375.304 (c) added
31730
381.302 (a) amended
5660
381.303 (a) amended
5660
381.304 (a) amended
5660
381.305 (a) amended
5660
381.403 Amended
5660
381.505 (a) amended
5660
385.1504 (a) revised
2037
385.1602 Revised
2037
2023
18 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
2.27 (f) revised
74030
4.60 (b) revised
74030
11 Authority citation revised
6992
11 Appendix A revised
6992
35.7 (c) revised
74030
35.28 (f)(1)(ii) added
61261
35.47 (h) added
40707
35.48 (Subpart K) Added
28377
35.48 Correction: (d) introductory text, (h)(1), and (j) amended
37145
38.1 Revised
74030
40 Policy statement
8354, 41262, 74249, 74879
101 Amended; eff. 1-1-25
69314, 69315, 69316, 69317, 69325, 69326
141 Policy statement
41477
153 Authority citation revised
74041
153.2 (b) removed; (c) through (f) redesignated as new (b) through (e)
74041
153.8 (a)(6) removed; (a)(7) through (9) redesignated as new (a)(6) through (8); newly redesignated (a)(6) amended
74042
154.4 (c) revised
74030
157 Authority citation revised
9393
157.208 (d) table I removed; (d) table I added
9393
157.215 (a)(5) table II removed; (a)(5) table 1 added
9394
250.16 (e)(1) revised
1991
250.16 (c)(3) and (d)(2) revised
74031
260.1 (b)(4) revised
74031
260.2 (b)(4) revised
74031
270.501 (a) revised
74031
270.502 (e) revised
74031
284.12 (a)(2) revised
74031
284.13 (c)(5) revised
74031
284.123 (f)(3) revised
74031
284.221 (b)(1) revised
74031
292.210 (e)(1) revised
74032
292.211 (h)(1) revised
74032
341.1 (c) revised
74032
357.3 (c) revised
74032
380.9 (b) revised
74032
380.12 (h)(5) removed; (h)(6) redesignated as new (h)(5); (o)(12), (14), and (15) revised
74042
380 Appendix A amended
74045
381.302 (a) amended
6165
381.303 (a) amended
6165
381.304 (a) amended
6165
381.305 (a) amended
6165
381.403 Amended
6165
381.505 (a) amended
6165
385.203 (d) revised
74032
385.1504 (a) revised
1991
385.1602 Revised
1991
385.2011 (c)(4) revised
74032
388.105 (a) revised
74032
388.106 Heading, (a), and (b) introductory text revised
74033
388.108 Heading, (a)(1) introductory text, and (b)(1) revised
74033
388.109 (a) and (b) introductory text revised
74033
388.110 Heading revised
74033
2024
18 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
1b Policy statement
13975
4.34 (b)(5) revised
96529
4.201 (e) added
96530
5.23 (b) revised
96530
6.1 Revised
96530
7.2 Revised
96530
7.7 (a) revised
96531
11 Authority citation revised
5422
11 Appendix A revised
5422
35 Order
27006, 97174
35 Policy statement
49280
35 Determination
93410
50 Authority citation revised
46730
50.1 Amended
46730
50.2 (a) and (c) amended
46730
50.3 (b) revised
46730
50.4 (a)(1) through (3), (b)(1)(ii), and (c)(1) through (4) revised; (a)(4) and (5) added
46730
50.4 (a)(5) revised
84472
50.5 (c) introductory text, (3)(i), (6), (d)(1)(i), and (e)(3)(i) revised; (e)(3)(ii) removed; (e)(3)(iii), (7), and (8) redesignated as new (e)(3)(ii), (10), and (11); (c)(3) introductory text, (5), (e)(4) introductory text, and new (11) amended; (c)(8), (9), new (e)(7), new (8), and (9) added
46731
50.6 (b), (d), (e)(1), (3)(i), (ii), and (i) revised; (c) amended; (e)(3)(iii) added
46732
50.7 (h)(2) introductory text amended; (h)(3) and (4) removed; (h)(5) and (6) redesignated as new (h)(3) and new (4); introductory text, (g)(1)(i), (vi), (2)(ii), (vi), (3)(iii), (4)(iii), (5) introductory text, (6) introductory text, (ii), (8), (h)(1), (2)(ii), new (3), new (4), (i)(2), and (j) revised
46732
50.8 (b) and (c) amended
46733
50.9 (b) revised
46733
50.11 (a) revised; (b), (d), (e), (g) introductory text, and (2) amended; (d)(1) and (2) added
46733
50.11 Correction: Amended
47460
50.12 Added
46733
157.208 (a), (b), (d), (f)(1), and (g) amended; (d) Table 1 revised
16683
157.209 (a) amended
16684
157.210 Amended
16684
157.212 Amended
16684
157.213 (a) and (b) amended
16684
157.215 (a)(5) introductory text amended; (a)(5) Table 1 revised
16684
250.16 (e)(1) revised
1808
284.12 (a)(1)(i) through (vii) and (2) revised; (a)(1)(viii) added
97524
380.2 (f) and (g) redesignated as (g) and (h); new (f) added
46734
380.13 (b)(2)(i) amended
46734
380.14 (a) introductory text amended
46734
380.16 (e)(7), (8), (h) through (j), and (k) through (m) redesignated as (e)(8), (9), (j) through (l), and (n) through (p); (a)(1), (c) introductory text, (1), (d)(7), (e)(4), (5), (f)(4), (g) introductory text, new (j) heading, new introductory text, new (o)(5), new (p) introductory text, and new (2) amended; (b)(3), (c)(2)(i) through (iii), (3), (4), (d)(6), (e)(2), (3), (6), new (8), new (9), (f)(1)(i), (iii), (iv), (v), (f)(2) introductory text, (g)(2), (3), (6), new (j)(3), new (k) heading, new introductory text, new (2), new (3), new (l), new (n), new (o) heading, new introductory text, new (1) through (4), new (7), new (p) heading, new (3)(i), new (iii), and new (4) revised; new (e)(7), new (h), new (i), new (k)(4), and new (m) added
46734
381.302 (a) amended
1034
381.303 (a) amended
1034
381.304 (a) amended
1034
381.305 (a) amended
1034
381.403 Amended
1034
381.505 (a) amended
1034
385.1504 (a) revised
1808
385.1602 Revised
1808
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
18 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter I
2.27 Revised; eff. 4-28-25
10796
11 Authority citation revised
9387
11 Appendix A revised
9387
38.1 (b) Revised; eff. 4-28-25
10796
250.16 (e)(1) revised
2931
376.204 Revised
4625
381.302 (a) amended
8496
381.303 (a) amended
8496
381.304 (a) amended
8496
381.305 (a) amended
8496
381.403 Amended
8496
381.505 (a) amended
8496
385.1504 (a) revised
2932
385.1602 Revised
2932
○
