(ii) The claimant is entitled to submit, in rebuttal of the case presented by the party opposing entitlement, no more than one physician's interpretation of each chest X-ray, pulmonary function test, arterial blood gas study, autopsy or biopsy submitted by the designated responsible operator or the
fund, as appropriate, under paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (a)(3)(iii) of this section and by the Director pursuant to § 725.406. In any case in which the party opposing entitlement has submitted the results of other testing pursuant to § 718.107, the claimant is entitled to submit one physician's assessment of each piece of such evidence in rebuttal. In addition, where the responsible operator or fund has submitted rebuttal evidence under paragraph (a)(3)(ii) or (a)(3)(iii) of this section with respect to medical testing submitted by the claimant, the claimant is entitled to submit an additional statement from the physician who originally interpreted the chest X-ray or administered the objective testing. Where the rebuttal evidence tends to undermine the conclusion of a physician who prepared a medical report submitted by the claimant, the claimant is entitled to submit an additional statement from the physician who prepared the medical report explaining his conclusion in light of the rebuttal evidence.
(3)(i) The responsible operator designated pursuant to § 725.410 is entitled to obtain and submit, in support of its affirmative case, no more than two chest X-ray interpretations, the results of no more than two pulmonary function tests, the results of no more than two arterial blood gas studies, no more than one report of an autopsy, no more than one report of each biopsy, and no more than two medical reports. Any chest X-ray interpretations, pulmonary function test results, blood gas studies, autopsy report, biopsy report, and physicians' opinions that appear in a medical report must each be admissible under this paragraph or paragraph (a)(4) of this section. In obtaining such evidence, the responsible operator may not require the miner to travel more than 100 miles from his or her place of residence, or the distance traveled by the miner in obtaining the complete pulmonary evaluation provided by § 725.406 of this part, whichever is greater, unless a trip of greater distance is authorized in writing by the district director. If a miner unreasonably refuses—
(A) To provide the Office or the designated responsible operator with a complete statement of his or her medical history and/or to authorize access to his or her medical records, or
(B) To submit to an evaluation or test requested by the district director or the designated responsible operator, the miner's claim may be denied by reason of abandonment. (
See
§ 725.409 of this part).
(ii) The responsible operator is entitled to submit, in rebuttal of the case presented by the claimant, no more than one physician's interpretation of each chest X-ray, pulmonary function test, arterial blood gas study, autopsy or biopsy submitted by the claimant under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and by the Director pursuant to § 725.406. In any case in which the claimant has submitted the results of other testing pursuant to § 718.107, the responsible operator is entitled to submit one physician's assessment of each piece of such evidence in rebuttal. In addition, where the claimant has submitted rebuttal evidence under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the responsible operator is entitled to submit an additional statement from the physician who originally interpreted the chest X-ray or administered the objective testing. Where the rebuttal evidence tends to undermine the conclusion of a physician who prepared a medical report submitted by the responsible operator, the responsible operator is entitled to submit an additional statement from the physician who prepared the medical report explaining his conclusion in light of the rebuttal evidence.
(iii) In a case in which the district director has not identified any potentially liable operators, or has dismissed all potentially liable operators under § 725.410(a)(3), or has identified a liable operator that ceases to defend the claim on grounds of an inability to provide for payment of continuing benefits, the district director is entitled to exercise the rights of a responsible operator under this section, except that the evidence obtained in connection with the complete pulmonary evaluation performed pursuant to § 725.406 must be considered evidence obtained and submitted by the Director, OWCP, for purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. In a case involving a dispute concerning medical benefits under
§ 725.708 of this part, the district director is entitled to develop medical evidence to determine whether the medical bill is compensable under the standard set forth in § 725.701 of this part.
(4) Notwithstanding the limitations in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, any record of a miner's hospitalization for a respiratory or pulmonary or related disease, or medical treatment for a respiratory or pulmonary or related disease, may be received into evidence.
(5) A copy of any documentary evidence submitted by a party must be served on all other parties to the claim. If the claimant is not represented by an attorney, the district director must mail a copy of all documentary evidence submitted by the claimant to all other parties to the claim. Following the development and submission of affirmative medical evidence, the parties may submit rebuttal evidence in accordance with the schedule issued by the district director.
(b)
Evidence pertaining to liability.
(1) Except as provided by § 725.408(b)(2), the designated responsible operator may submit evidence to demonstrate that it is not the potentially liable operator that most recently employed the claimant.
(2) Any other party may submit evidence regarding the liability of the designated responsible operator or any other operator.
(3) A copy of any documentary evidence submitted under this paragraph must be mailed to all other parties to the claim. Following the submission of affirmative evidence, the parties may submit rebuttal evidence in accordance with the schedule issued by the district director.
(c)
Testimony.
A physician who prepared a medical report admitted under this section may testify with respect to the claim at any formal hearing conducted in accordance with subpart F of this part, or by deposition. If a party has submitted fewer than two medical reports as part of that party's affirmative case under this section, a physician who did not prepare a medical report may testify in lieu of such a medical report. The testimony of such a physician will be considered a medical report for purposes of the limitations provided by this section. A party may offer the testimony of no more than two physicians under the provisions of this section unless the adjudication officer finds good cause under paragraph (b)(1) of § 725.456 of this part. In accordance with the schedule issued by the district director, all parties must notify the district director of the name and current address of any potential witness whose testimony pertains to the liability of a potentially liable operator or the designated responsible operator. Absent such notice, the testimony of a witness relevant to the liability of a potentially liable operator or the designated responsible operator will not be admitted in any hearing conducted with respect to the claim unless the administrative law judge finds that the lack of notice should be excused due to extraordinary circumstances.
(d) Except to the extent permitted by §§ 725.456 and 725.310(b), the limitations set forth in this section apply to all proceedings conducted with respect to a claim, and no documentary evidence pertaining to liability may be admitted in any further proceeding conducted with respect to a claim unless it is submitted to the district director in accordance with this section.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 24480, Apr. 26, 2016]
§ 725.415
Action by the district director after development of evidence.
(a) At the end of the period permitted under § 725.410(b) for the submission of evidence, the district director shall review the claim on the basis of all evidence submitted in accordance with § 725.414.
(b) After review of all evidence submitted, the district director may issue another schedule for the submission of additional evidence pursuant to § 725.410, identifying another potentially liable operator as the responsible operator liable for the payment of benefits. In such a case, the district director shall not permit the development or submission of any additional medical evidence until after he has made a final determination of the identity of the responsible operator liable for the payment of benefits. If the operator
who is finally determined to be the responsible operator has not had the opportunity to submit medical evidence pursuant to § 725.410, the district director shall allow the designated responsible operator and the claimant not less than 60 days within which to submit evidence relevant to the claimant's eligibility for benefits. The designated responsible operator may elect to adopt any medical evidence previously submitted by another operator as its own evidence, subject to the limitations of § 725.414. The district director may also schedule a conference in accordance with § 725.416, issue a proposed decision and order in accordance with § 725.418, or take such other action as the district director considers appropriate.
§ 725.416
Conferences.
(a) At the conclusion of the period permitted by § 725.410(b) of this part for the submission of evidence, the district director may conduct an informal conference in any claim where it appears that such conference will assist in the voluntary resolution of any issue raised with respect to the claim. The conference proceedings shall not be stenographically reported and sworn testimony shall not be taken. Any conference conducted pursuant to this paragraph shall be held no later than 90 days after the conclusion of the period permitted by § 725.410(b) of this part for the submission of evidence, unless one of the parties requests that the time period be extended for good cause shown. If the district director is unable to hold the conference within the time period permitted by this paragraph, he shall proceed to issue a proposed decision and order under § 725.418 of this part.
(b) The district director shall notify the parties of a definite time and place for the conference. The district director shall advise the parties that they have a right to representation at the conference, by an attorney or a lay representative, and that no conference shall take place unless the parties are represented. A coal mine operator which is self-insured, or which is covered by a policy of insurance for the claim for which a conference is scheduled, shall be deemed to be represented. The notification shall set forth the specific reasons why the district director believes that a conference will assist in the voluntary resolution of any issue raised with respect to the claim. No sanction may be imposed under paragraph (c) of this section unless the record contains a notification that meets the requirements of this section. The district director may in his or her discretion, or on the motion of any party, cancel a conference or allow any or all of the parties to participate by telephone.
(c) The unexcused failure of any party to appear at an informal conference shall be grounds for the imposition of sanctions. If the claimant fails to appear, the district director may take such steps as are authorized by § 725.409(b)(2) to deny the claim by reason of abandonment. If the responsible operator fails to appear, it shall be deemed to have waived its right to contest its potential liability for an award of benefits and, in the discretion of the district director, its right to contest any issue related to the claimant's eligibility.
(d) Any representative of an operator, of an operator's insurance carrier, or of a claimant, authorized to represent such party in accordance with paragraph (b), shall be deemed to have sufficient authority to stipulate facts or issues or agree to a final disposition of the claim.
(e) Procedures to be followed at a conference shall be within the discretion of the district director.
§ 725.417
Action at the conclusion of conference.
(a) At the conclusion of a conference, the district director shall prepare a stipulation of contested and uncontested issues which shall be signed by the parties and the district director. If a hearing is conducted with respect to the claim, this stipulation shall be submitted to the Office of Administrative Law Judges and placed in the claim record.
(b) In appropriate cases, the district director may permit a reasonable time for the submission of additional evidence following a conference, provided that such evidence does not exceed the limits set forth in § 725.414. The district
director may also notify additional operators of their potential liability pursuant to § 725.407, or issue another schedule for the submission of additional evidence pursuant to § 725.410, designating another potentially liable operator as the responsible operator liable for the payment of benefits, in order to allow that operator an opportunity to submit evidence relevant to its liability for benefits as well as the claimant's eligibility for benefits.
(c) Within 20 days after the termination of all conference proceedings, the district director shall prepare and send to the parties a proposed decision and order pursuant to § 725.418 of this part.
§ 725.418
Proposed decision and order.
(a) Within 20 days after the termination of all informal conference proceedings, or, if no informal conference is held, at the conclusion of the period permitted by § 725.410(b) for the submission of evidence, the district director will issue a proposed decision and order. A proposed decision and order is a document, issued by the district director after the evidentiary development of the claim is completed and all contested issues, if any, are joined, which purports to resolve a claim on the basis of the evidence submitted to or obtained by the district director. A proposed decision and order will be considered a final adjudication of a claim only as provided in § 725.419. A proposed decision and order may be issued by the district director at any time during the adjudication of any claim if:
(1) Issuance is authorized or required by this part;
(2) The district director determines that its issuance will expedite the adjudication of the claim; or
(3) The district director determines that the claimant is a survivor who is entitled to benefits under 30 U.S.C. 932(l). In such cases, the district director may designate the responsible operator in the proposed decision and order regardless of whether the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section have been met. Any operator identified as liable for benefits under this paragraph may challenge the finding of liability by timely requesting revision of the proposed decision and order and specifically indicating disagreement with that finding.
See
20 CFR 725.419(a) and (b). In such cases, the district director must allow all parties 30 days within which to submit liability evidence. At the end of this period, the district director must issue a new proposed decision and order.
(b) A proposed decision and order must contain findings of fact and conclusions of law. It must be served on all parties to the claim by certified mail.
(c) The proposed decision and order must contain a notice of the right of any interested party to request a formal hearing before the Office of Administrative Law Judges. If the proposed decision and order is a denial of benefits, and the claimant has previously filed a request for a hearing, the proposed decision and order must notify the claimant that the case will be referred for a hearing pursuant to the previous request unless the claimant notifies the district director that he no longer desires a hearing. If the proposed decision and order is an award of benefits, and the designated responsible operator has previously filed a request for a hearing, the proposed decision and order must notify the operator that the case will be referred for a hearing pursuant to the previous request unless the operator notifies the district director that it no longer desires a hearing.
(d) The proposed decision and order must reflect the district director's final designation of the responsible operator liable for the payment of benefits. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, no operator may be finally designated as the responsible operator unless it has received notification of its potential liability pursuant to § 725.407, and the opportunity to submit additional evidence pursuant to § 725.410. The district director must dismiss, as parties to the claim, all other potentially liable operators that received notification pursuant to § 725.407 and that were not previously dismissed pursuant to § 725.410(a)(3).
[78 FR 59118, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 725.419
Response to proposed decision and order.
(a) Within 30 days after the date of issuance of a proposed decision and order, any party may, in writing, request a revision of the proposed decision and order or a hearing. If a hearing is requested, the district director shall refer the claim to the Office of Administrative Law Judges (see § 725.421).
(b) Any response made by a party to a proposed decision and order shall specify the findings and conclusions with which the responding party disagrees, and shall be served on the district director and all other parties to the claim.
(c) If a timely request for revision of a proposed decision and order is made, the district director may amend the proposed decision and order, as circumstances require, and serve the revised proposed decision and order on all parties or take such other action as is appropriate. If a revised proposed decision and order is issued, each party to the claim shall have 30 days from the date of issuance of that revised proposed decision and order within which to request a hearing.
(d) If no response to a proposed decision and order is sent to the district director within the period described in paragraph (a) of this section, or if no response to a revised proposed decision and order is sent to the district director within the period described in paragraph (c) of this section, the proposed decision and order shall become a final decision and order, which is effective upon the expiration of the applicable 30-day period. Once a proposed decision and order or revised proposed decision and order becomes final and effective, all rights to further proceedings with respect to the claim shall be considered waived, except as provided in § 725.310.
§ 725.420
Initial determinations.
(a) Section 9501(d)(1)(A)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C.) provides that the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund shall begin the payment of benefits on behalf of an operator in any case in which the operator liable for such payments has not commenced payment of such benefits within 30 days after the date of an initial determination of eligibility by the Secretary. For claims filed on or after January 1, 1982, the payment of such interim benefits from the fund is limited to benefits accruing after the date of such initial determination.
(b) Except as provided in § 725.415, after the district director has determined that a claimant is eligible for benefits, on the basis of all evidence submitted by a claimant and operator, and has determined that a hearing will be necessary to resolve the claim, the district director shall in writing so inform the parties and direct the operator to begin the payment of benefits to the claimant in accordance with § 725.522. The date on which this writing is sent to the parties shall be considered the date of initial determination of the claim.
(c) If a notified operator refuses to commence payment of a claim within 30 days from the date on which an initial determination is made under this section, benefits shall be paid by the fund to the claimant in accordance with § 725.522, and the operator shall be liable to the fund, if such operator is determined liable for the claim, for all benefits paid by the fund on behalf of such operator, and, in addition, such penalties and interest as are appropriate.
§ 725.421
Referral of a claim to the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
(a) In any claim for which a formal hearing is requested or ordered, and with respect to which the district director has completed evidentiary development and adjudication without having resolved all contested issues, the district director shall refer the claim to the Office of Administrative Law Judges for a hearing.
(b) In any case referred to the Office of Administrative Law Judges under this section, the district director shall transmit to that office the following documents, which shall be placed in the record at the hearing subject to the objection of any party:
(1) Copies of the claim form or forms;
(2) Any statement, document, or pleading submitted by a party to the claim;
(3) A copy of the notification to an operator of its possible liability for the
claim, and any schedule for the submission of additional evidence issued pursuant to § 725.410 designating a potentially liable operator as the responsible operator;
(4) All medical evidence submitted to the district director under this part by the claimant and the potentially liable operator designated as the responsible operator in the proposed decision and order issued pursuant to § 725.418, or the fund, as appropriate, subject to the limitations of § 725.414 of this part; this evidence shall include the results of any medical examination or test conducted pursuant to § 725.406, and all evidence relevant to the liability of the responsible operator submitted to the district director under this part;
(5) Any written stipulation of law or fact or stipulation of contested and uncontested issues entered into by the parties;
(6) Any pertinent forms submitted to the district director;
(7) The statement by the district director of contested and uncontested issues in the claim; and
(8) The district director's initial determination of eligibility or other documents necessary to establish the right of the fund to reimbursement, if appropriate. Copies of the transmittal notice shall also be sent to all parties to the claim by regular mail.
(c) A party may at any time request and obtain from the district director copies of documents transmitted to the Office of Administrative Law Judges under paragraph (b) of this section. If the party has previously been provided with such documents, additional copies may be sent to the party upon the payment of a copying fee to be determined by the district director.
§ 725.422
Legal assistance.
The Secretary or his or her designee may, upon request, provide a claimant with legal assistance in processing a claim under the Act. Such assistance may be made available to a claimant in the discretion of the Solicitor of Labor or his or her designee at any time prior to or during the time in which the claim is being adjudicated and shall be furnished without charge to the claimant. Representation of a claimant in adjudicatory proceedings shall not be provided by the Department of Labor unless it is determined by the Solicitor of Labor that such representation is in the best interests of the black lung benefits program. In no event shall representation be provided to a claimant in a claim with respect to which the claimant's interests are adverse to those of the Secretary of Labor or the fund.
§ 725.423
Extensions of time.
Except for the 30-day time limit set forth in § 725.419, any of the time periods set forth in this subpart may be extended, for good cause shown, by filing a request for an extension with the district director prior to the expiration of the time period.

# Subpart F—Hearings
§ 725.450
Right to a hearing.
Any party to a claim (see § 725.360) shall have a right to a hearing concerning any contested issue of fact or law unresolved by the district director. There shall be no right to a hearing until the processing and adjudication of the claim by the district director has been completed. There shall be no right to a hearing in a claim with respect to which a determination of the claim made by the district director has become final and effective in accordance with this part.
§ 725.451
Request for hearing.
After the completion of proceedings before the district director, or as is otherwise indicated in this part, any party may in writing request a hearing on any contested issue of fact or law (see § 725.419). A district director may on his or her own initiative refer a case for hearing. If a hearing is requested, or if a district director determines that a hearing is necessary to the resolution of any issue, the claim shall be referred to the Chief Administrative Law Judge for a hearing under § 725.421.
§ 725.452
Type of hearing; parties.
(a) A hearing held under this part shall be conducted by an administrative law judge designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge. Except as otherwise provided by this part, all
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 554
et seq.
(b) All parties to a claim shall be permitted to participate fully at a hearing held in connection with such claim.
(c) A full evidentiary hearing need not be conducted if a party moves for summary judgment and the administrative law judge determines that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to the relief requested as a matter of law. All parties shall be entitled to respond to the motion for summary judgment prior to decision thereon.
(d) If the administrative law judge believes that an oral hearing is not necessary (for any reason other than on motion for summary judgment), the judge shall notify the parties by written order and allow at least 30 days for the parties to respond. The administrative law judge shall hold the oral hearing if any party makes a timely request in response to the order.
§ 725.453
Notice of hearing.
All parties shall be given at least 30 days written notice of the date and place of a hearing and the issues to be resolved at the hearing. Such notice shall be sent to each party or representative by certified mail.
§ 725.454
Time and place of hearing; transfer of cases.
(a) The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall assign a definite time and place for a formal hearing, and shall, where possible, schedule the hearing to be held at a place within 75 miles of the claimant's residence unless an alternate location is requested by the claimant.
(b) If the claimant's residence is not in any State, the Chief Administrative Law Judge may, in his or her discretion, schedule the hearing in the country of the claimant's residence.
(c) The Chief Administrative Law Judge or the administrative law judge assigned the case may in his or her discretion direct that a hearing with respect to a claim shall begin at one location and then later be reconvened at another date and place.
(d) The Chief Administrative Law Judge or administrative law judge assigned the case may change the time and place for a hearing, either on his or her own motion or for good cause shown by a party. The administrative law judge may adjourn or postpone the hearing for good cause shown, at any time prior to the mailing to the parties of the decision in the case. Unless otherwise agreed, at least 10 days notice shall be given to the parties of any change in the time or place of hearing.
(e) The Chief Administrative Law Judge may for good cause shown transfer a case from one administrative law judge to another.
§ 725.455
Hearing procedures; generally.
(a)
General.
The purpose of any hearing conducted under this subpart shall be to resolve contested issues of fact or law. Except as provided in § 725.421(b)(8), any findings or determinations made with respect to a claim by a district director shall not be considered by the administrative law judge.
(b)
Evidence.
The administrative law judge shall at the hearing inquire fully into all matters at issue, and shall not be bound by common law or statutory rules of evidence, or by technical or formal rules of procedure, except as provided by 5 U.S.C. 554 and this subpart. The administrative law judge shall receive into evidence the testimony of the witnesses and parties, the evidence submitted to the Office of Administrative Law Judges by the district director under § 725.421, and such additional evidence as may be submitted in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. The administrative law judge may entertain the objections of any party to the evidence submitted under this section.
(c)
Procedure.
The conduct of the hearing and the order in which allegations and evidence shall be presented shall be within the discretion of the administrative law judge and shall afford the parties an opportunity for a fair hearing.
(d)
Oral argument and written allegations.
The parties, upon request, may be allowed a reasonable time for the presentation of oral argument at the hearing. Briefs or other written statements or allegations as to facts or law
may be filed by any party with the permission of the administrative law judge. Copies of any brief or other written statement shall be filed with the administrative law judge and served on all parties by the submitting party.
§ 725.456
Introduction of documentary evidence.
(a) All documents transmitted to the Office of Administrative Law Judges under § 725.421 shall be placed into evidence by the administrative law judge, subject to objection by any party.
(b)(1) Documentary evidence pertaining to the liability of a potentially liable operator and/or the identification of a responsible operator which was not submitted to the district director shall not be admitted into the hearing record in the absence of extraordinary circumstances. Medical evidence in excess of the limitations contained in § 725.414 shall not be admitted into the hearing record in the absence of good cause.
(2) Subject to the limitations in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, any other documentary material, including medical reports, which was not submitted to the district director, may be received in evidence subject to the objection of any party, if such evidence is sent to all other parties at least 20 days before a hearing is held in connection with the claim.
(3) Documentary evidence, which is not exchanged with the parties in accordance with this paragraph, may be admitted at the hearing with the written consent of the parties or on the record at the hearing, or upon a showing of good cause why such evidence was not exchanged in accordance with this paragraph. If documentary evidence is not exchanged in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section and the parties do not waive the 20-day requirement or good cause is not shown, the administrative law judge shall either exclude the late evidence from the record or remand the claim to the district director for consideration of such evidence.
(4) A medical report which is not made available to the parties in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall not be admitted into evidence in any case unless the hearing record is kept open for at least 30 days after the hearing to permit the parties to take such action as each considers appropriate in response to such evidence. If, in the opinion of the administrative law judge, evidence is withheld from the parties for the purpose of delaying the adjudication of the claim, the administrative law judge may exclude such evidence from the hearing record and close the record at the conclusion of the hearing.
(c) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, documentary evidence which the district director excludes from the record, and the objections to such evidence, may be submitted by the parties to the administrative law judge, who shall independently determine whether the evidence shall be admitted.
(1) If the evidence is admitted, the administrative law judge may, in his or her discretion, remand the claim to the district director for further consideration.
(2) If the evidence is admitted, the administrative law judge shall afford the opposing party or parties the opportunity to develop such additional documentary evidence as is necessary to protect the right of cross-examination.
(d) All medical records and reports submitted by any party shall be considered by the administrative law judge in accordance with the quality standards contained in part 718 of this subchapter.
(e) If the administrative law judge concludes that the complete pulmonary evaluation provided pursuant to § 725.406, or any part thereof, fails to comply with the applicable quality standards, or fails to address the relevant conditions of entitlement (see § 725.202(d)(2)(i) through (iv)) in a manner which permits resolution of the claim, the administrative law judge shall, in his or her discretion, remand the claim to the district director with instructions to develop only such additional evidence as is required, or allow the parties a reasonable time to obtain and submit such evidence, before the termination of the hearing.
§ 725.457
Witnesses.
(a) Witnesses at the hearing shall testify under oath or affirmation. The administrative law judge and the parties may question witnesses with respect to any matters relevant and material to any contested issue. Any party who intends to present the testimony of an expert witness at a hearing, including any physician, regardless of whether the physician has previously prepared a medical report, shall so notify all other parties to the claim at least 10 days before the hearing. The failure to give notice of the appearance of an expert witness in accordance with this paragraph, unless notice is waived by all parties, shall preclude the presentation of testimony by such expert witness.
(b) No person shall be required to appear as a witness in any proceeding before an administrative law judge at a place more than 100 miles from his or her place of residence, unless the lawful mileage and witness fee for 1 day's attendance is paid in advance of the hearing date.
(c) No person shall be permitted to testify as a witness at the hearing, or pursuant to deposition or interrogatory under § 725.458, unless that person meets the requirements of § 725.414(c).
(1) In the case of a witness offering testimony relevant to the liability of the responsible operator, in the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the witness must have been identified as a potential hearing witness while the claim was pending before the district director.
(2) In the case of a physician offering testimony relevant to the physical condition of the miner, such physician must have prepared a medical report. Alternatively, in the absence of a showing of good cause under § 725.456(b)(1) of this part, a physician may offer testimony relevant to the physical condition of the miner only to the extent that the party offering the physician's testimony has submitted fewer medical reports than permitted by § 725.414. Such physician's opinion shall be considered a medical report subject to the limitations of § 725.414.
(d) A physician whose testimony is permitted under this section may testify as to any other medical evidence of record, but shall not be permitted to testify as to any medical evidence relevant to the miner's condition that is not admissible.
§ 725.458
Depositions; interrogatories.
The testimony of any witness or party may be taken by deposition or interrogatory according to the rules of practice of the Federal district court for the judicial district in which the case is pending (or of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia if the case is pending in the District or outside the United States), except that at least 30 days prior notice of any deposition shall be given to all parties unless such notice is waived. No post-hearing deposition or interrogatory shall be permitted unless authorized by the administrative law judge upon the motion of a party to the claim. The testimony of any physician which is taken by deposition shall be subject to the limitations on the scope of the testimony contained in § 725.457(d).
§ 725.459
Witness fees.
(a) A witness testifying at a hearing before an administrative law judge, or whose deposition is taken, shall receive the same fees and mileage as witnesses in courts of the United States. If the witness is an expert, he or she shall be entitled to an expert witness fee. Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, such fees shall be paid by the proponent of the witness.
(b) If the witness' proponent does not intend to call the witness to appear at a hearing or deposition, any other party may subpoena the witness for cross-examination. The administrative law judge (ALJ) shall authorize the least intrusive and expensive means of cross-examination as the ALJ deems appropriate and necessary to the full and true disclosure of the facts. If such witness is required to attend the hearing, give a deposition or respond to interrogatories for cross-examination purposes, the proponent of the witness shall pay the witness' fee. The fund shall remain liable for any costs associated with the cross-examination of the physician who performed the complete pulmonary evaluation pursuant to § 725.406.
(c) If a claimant is determined entitled to benefits, there may be assessed
as costs against a responsible operator, if any, or the fund, fees and mileage for necessary witnesses attending the hearing at the request of the claimant. Both the necessity for the witness and the reasonableness of the fees of any expert witness shall be approved by the administrative law judge. The amounts awarded against a responsible operator or the fund as attorney's fees, or costs, fees and mileage for witnesses, shall not in any respect affect or diminish benefits payable under the Act.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 69935, Dec. 15, 2003]
§ 725.460
Consolidated hearings.
When two or more hearings are to be held, and the same or substantially similar evidence is relevant and material to the matters at issue at each such hearing, the Chief Administrative Law Judge may, upon motion by any party or on his or her own motion, order that a consolidated hearing be conducted. Where consolidated hearings are held, a single record of the proceedings shall be made and the evidence introduced in one claim may be considered as introduced in the others, and a separate or joint decision shall be made, as appropriate.
§ 725.461
Waiver of right to appear and present evidence.
(a) If all parties waive their right to appear before the administrative law judge, it shall not be necessary for the administrative law judge to give notice of, or conduct, an oral hearing. A waiver of the right to appear shall be made in writing and filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge or the administrative law judge assigned to hear the case. Such waiver may be withdrawn by a party for good cause shown at any time prior to the mailing of the decision in the claim. Even though all of the parties have filed a waiver of the right to appear, the administrative law judge may, nevertheless, after giving notice of the time and place, conduct a hearing if he or she believes that the personal appearance and testimony of the party or parties would assist in ascertaining the facts in issue in the claim. Where a waiver has been filed by all parties, and they do not appear before the administrative law judge personally or by representative, the administrative law judge shall make a record of the relevant documentary evidence submitted in accordance with this part and any further written stipulations of the parties. Such documents and stipulations shall be considered the evidence of record in the case and the decision shall be based upon such evidence.
(b) Except as provided in § 725.456(a), the unexcused failure of any party to attend a hearing shall constitute a waiver of such party's right to present evidence at the hearing, and may result in a dismissal of the claim (see § 725.465).
§ 725.462
Withdrawal of controversion of issues set for formal hearing; effect.
A party may, on the record, withdraw his or her controversion of any or all issues set for hearing. If a party withdraws his or her controversion of all issues, the administrative law judge shall remand the case to the district director for the issuance of an appropriate order.
§ 725.463
Issues to be resolved at hearing; new issues.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the hearing shall be confined to those contested issues which have been identified by the district director (see § 725.421) or any other issue raised in writing before the district director.
(b) An administrative law judge may consider a new issue only if such issue was not reasonably ascertainable by the parties at the time the claim was before the district director. Such new issue may be raised upon application of any party, or upon an administrative law judge's own motion, with notice to all parties, at any time after a claim has been transmitted by the district director to the Office of Administrative Law Judges and prior to decision by an administrative law judge. If a new issue is raised, the administrative law judge may, in his or her discretion, either remand the case to the district director with instructions for further proceedings, hear and resolve the new issue, or refuse to consider such new issue.
(c) If a new issue is to be considered by the administrative law judge, a party may, upon request, be granted an appropriate continuance.
§ 725.464
Record of hearing.
All hearings shall be open to the public and shall be mechanically or stenographically reported. All evidence upon which the administrative law judge relies for decision shall be contained in the transcript of testimony, either directly or by appropriate reference. All medical reports, exhibits, and any other pertinent document or record, either in whole or in material part, introduced as evidence, shall be marked for identification and incorporated into the record.
§ 725.465
Dismissals for cause.
(a) The administrative law judge may, at the request of any party, or on his or her own motion, dismiss a claim:
(1) Upon the failure of the claimant or his or her representative to attend a hearing without good cause;
(2) Upon the failure of the claimant to comply with a lawful order of the administrative law judge; or
(3) Where there has been a prior final adjudication of the claim or defense to the claim under the provisions of this subchapter and no new evidence is submitted (except as provided in part 727 of this subchapter; see § 725.4(d)).
(b) A party who is not a proper party to the claim (see § 725.360) shall be dismissed by the administrative law judge. The administrative law judge shall not dismiss the operator designated as the responsible operator by the district director, except upon the motion or written agreement of the Director.
(c) In any case where a dismissal of a claim, defense, or party is sought, the administrative law judge shall issue an order to show cause why the dismissal should not be granted and afford all parties a reasonable time to respond to such order. After the time for response has expired, the administrative law judge shall take such action as is appropriate to rule on the dismissal, which may include an order dismissing the claim, defense or party.
(d) No claim shall be dismissed in a case with respect to which payments prior to final adjudication have been made to the claimant in accordance with § 725.522, except upon the motion or written agreement of the Director.
§ 725.466
Order of dismissal.
(a) An order dismissing a claim shall be served on the parties in accordance with § 725.478. The dismissal of a claim shall have the same effect as a decision and order disposing of the claim on its merits, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. Such order shall advise the parties of their right to request review by the Benefits Review Board.
(b) Where the Chief Administrative Law Judge or the presiding administrative law judge issues a decision and order dismissing the claim after a show cause proceeding, the district director shall terminate any payments being made to the claimant under § 725.522, and the order of dismissal shall, if appropriate, order the claimant to reimburse the fund for all benefits paid to the claimant.
§ 725.475
Termination of hearings.
Hearings are officially terminated when all the evidence has been received, witnesses heard, pleadings and briefs submitted to the administrative law judge, and the transcript of the proceedings has been printed and delivered to the administrative law judge.
§ 725.476
Issuance of decision and order.
Within 20 days after the official termination of the hearing (see § 725.475), the administrative law judge shall issue a decision and order with respect to the claim making an award to the claimant, rejecting the claim, or taking such other action as is appropriate.
§ 725.477
Form and contents of decision and order.
(a) Orders adjudicating claims for benefits shall be designated by the term “decision and order” or “supplemental decision and order” as appropriate, followed by a descriptive phrase designating the particular type of order, such as “award of benefits,” “rejection of claim,” “suspension of benefits,” “modification of award.”
(b) A decision and order shall contain a statement of the basis of the order, findings of fact, conclusions of law, and an award, rejection or other appropriate paragraph containing the action of the administrative law judge, his or her signature and the date of issuance. A decision and order shall be based upon the record made before the administrative law judge.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 4205, Jan. 30, 2007]
§ 725.478
Filing and service of decision and order.
On the date of issuance of a decision and order under § 725.477, the administrative law judge shall serve the decision and order on all parties to the claim by certified mail. On the same date, the original record of the claim shall be sent to the DCMWC in Washington, D.C. Upon receipt by the DCMWC, the decision and order shall be considered to be filed in the office of the district director, and shall become effective on that date.
§ 725.479
Finality of decisions and orders.
(a) A decision and order shall become effective when filed in the office of the district director (see § 725.478), and unless proceedings for suspension or setting aside of such order are instituted within 30 days of such filing, the order shall become final at the expiration of the 30th day after such filing (see § 725.481).
(b) Any party may, within 30 days after the filing of a decision and order under § 725.478, request a reconsideration of such decision and order by the administrative law judge. The procedures to be followed in the reconsideration of a decision and order shall be determined by the administrative law judge.
(c) The time for appeal to the Benefits Review Board shall be suspended during the consideration of a request for reconsideration. After the administrative law judge has issued and filed a denial of the request for reconsideration, or a revised decision and order in accordance with this part, any dissatisfied party shall have 30 days within which to institute proceedings to set aside the decision and order on reconsideration.
(d) Regardless of any defect in service, actual receipt of the decision is sufficient to commence the 30-day period for requesting reconsideration or appealing the decision.
§ 725.480
Modification of decisions and orders.
A party who is dissatisfied with a decision and order which has become final in accordance with § 725.479 may request a modification of the decision and order if the conditions set forth in § 725.310 are met.
§ 725.481
Right to appeal to the Benefits Review Board.
Any party dissatisfied with a decision and order issued by an administrative law judge may, before the decision and order becomes final (see § 725.479), appeal the decision and order to the Benefits Review Board. A notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board. Proceedings before the Board shall be conducted in accordance with part 802 of this title.
§ 725.482
Judicial review.
(a) Any person adversely affected or aggrieved by a final order of the Benefits Review Board may obtain a review of that order in the U.S. court of appeals for the circuit in which the injury occurred by filing in such court within 60 days following the issuance of such Board order a written petition praying that the order be modified or set aside. The payment of the amounts required by an award shall not be stayed pending final decision in any such proceeding unless ordered by the court. No stay shall be issued unless the court finds that irreparable injury would otherwise ensue to an operator or carrier.
(b) The Director, Office of Workers' Compensation Program, as designee of the Secretary of Labor responsible for the administration and enforcement of the Act, shall be considered the proper party to appear and present argument on behalf of the Secretary of Labor in all review proceedings conducted pursuant to this part and the Act, either as petitioner or respondent.
§ 725.483
Costs in proceedings brought without reasonable grounds.
If a United States court having jurisdiction of proceedings regarding any claim or final decision and order, determines that the proceedings have been instituted or continued before such court without reasonable ground, the costs of such proceedings shall be assessed against the party who has so instituted or continued such proceedings.

# Subpart G—Responsible Coal Mine Operators
§ 725.490
Statutory provisions and scope.
(a) One of the major purposes of the black lung benefits amendments of 1977 was to provide a more effective means of transferring the responsibility for the payment of benefits from the Federal government to the coal industry with respect to claims filed under this part. In furtherance of this goal, a Black Lung Disability Trust Fund financed by the coal industry was established by the Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1977. The primary purpose of the Fund is to pay benefits with respect to all claims in which the last coal mine employment of the miner on whose account the claim was filed occurred before January 1, 1970. With respect to most claims in which the miner's last coal mine employment occurred after January 1, 1970, individual coal mine operators will be liable for the payment of benefits. The 1981 amendments to the Act relieved individual coal mine operators from the liability for payment of certain special claims involving coal mine employment on or after January 1, 1970, where the claim was previously denied and subsequently approved under section 435 of the Act. See § 725.496 for a detailed description of these special claims. Where no such operator exists or the operator determined to be liable is in default in any case, the fund shall pay the benefits due and seek reimbursement as is appropriate. See also § 725.420 for the fund's role in the payment of interim benefits in certain contested cases. In addition, the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977 amended certain provisions affecting the scope of coverage under the Act and describing the effects of particular corporate transactions on the liability of operators.
(b) The provisions of this subpart define the term “operator” and prescribe the manner in which the identity of an operator which may be liable for the payment of benefits—referred to herein as a “responsible operator”—will be determined.
§ 725.491
Operator defined.
(a) For purposes of this part, the term “operator” shall include:
(1) Any owner, lessee, or other person who operates, controls, or supervises a coal mine, or any independent contractor performing services or construction at such mine; or
(2) Any other person who:
(i) Employs an individual in the transportation of coal or in coal mine construction in or around a coal mine, to the extent such individual was exposed to coal mine dust as a result of such employment (see § 725.202);
(ii) In accordance with the provisions of § 725.492, may be considered a successor operator; or
(iii) Paid wages or a salary, or provided other benefits, to an individual in exchange for work as a miner (see § 725.202).
(b) The terms “owner,” “lessee,” and “person” shall include any individual, partnership, association, corporation, firm, subsidiary of a corporation, or other organization, as appropriate, except that an officer of a corporation shall not be considered an “operator” for purposes of this part. Following the issuance of an order awarding benefits against a corporation that has not secured its liability for benefits in accordance with section 423 of the Act and § 726.4, such order may be enforced against the president, secretary, or treasurer of the corporation in accordance with subpart I of this part.
(c) The term “independent contractor” shall include any person who contracts to perform services. Such contractor's status as an operator shall not be contingent upon the amount or percentage of its work or business related to activities in or around a mine, nor upon the number or percentage of
its employees engaged in such activities.
(d) For the purposes of determining whether a person is or was an operator that may be found liable for the payment of benefits under this part, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that during the course of an individual's employment with such employer, such individual was regularly and continuously exposed to coal mine dust during the course of employment. The presumption may be rebutted by a showing that the employee was not exposed to coal mine dust for significant periods during such employment.
(e) The operation, control, or supervision referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be exercised directly or indirectly. Thus, for example, where a coal mine is leased, and the lease empowers the lessor to make decisions with respect to the terms and conditions under which coal is to be extracted or prepared, such as, but not limited to, the manner of extraction or preparation or the amount of coal to be produced, the lessor may be considered an operator. Similarly, any parent entity or other controlling business entity may be considered an operator for purposes of this part, regardless of the nature of its business activities.
(f) Neither the United States, nor any State, nor any instrumentality or agency of the United States or any State, shall be considered an operator.
§ 725.492
Successor operator defined.
(a) Any person who, on or after January 1, 1970, acquired a mine or mines, or substantially all of the assets thereof, from a prior operator, or acquired the coal mining business of such prior operator, or substantially all of the assets thereof, shall be considered a “successor operator” with respect to any miners previously employed by such prior operator.
(b) The following transactions shall also be deemed to create successor operator liability:
(1) If an operator ceases to exist by reason of a reorganization which involves a change in identity, form, or place of business or organization, however effected;
(2) If an operator ceases to exist by reason of a liquidation into a parent or successor corporation; or
(3) If an operator ceases to exist by reason of a sale of substantially all its assets, or as a result of merger, consolidation, or division.
(c) In any case in which a transaction specified in paragraph (b), or substantially similar to a transaction specified in paragraph (b), took place, the resulting entity shall be considered a “successor operator” with respect to any miners previously employed by such prior operator.
(d) This section shall not be construed to relieve a prior operator of any liability if such prior operator meets the conditions set forth in § 725.494. If the prior operator does not meet the conditions set forth in § 725.494, the following provisions shall apply:
(1) In any case in which a prior operator transferred a mine or mines, or substantially all of the assets thereof, to a successor operator, or sold its coal mining business or substantially all of the assets thereof, to a successor operator, and then ceased to exist within the terms of paragraph (b), the successor operator as identified in paragraph (a) shall be primarily liable for the payment of benefits to any miners previously employed by such prior operator.
(2) In any case in which a prior operator transferred mines, or substantially all of the assets thereof, to more than one successor operator, the successor operator that most recently acquired a mine or mines or assets from the prior operator shall be primarily liable for the payment of benefits to any miners previously employed by such prior operator.
(3) In any case in which a mine or mines, or substantially all the assets thereof, have been transferred more than once, the successor operator that most recently acquired such mine or mines or assets shall be primarily liable for the payment of benefits to any miners previously employed by the original prior operator. If the most recent successor operator does not meet the criteria for a potentially liable operator set forth in § 725.494, the next
most recent successor operator shall be liable.
(e) An “acquisition,” for purposes of this section, shall include any transaction by which title to the mine or mines, or substantially all of the assets thereof, or the right to extract or prepare coal at such mine or mines, becomes vested in a person other than the prior operator.
§ 725.493
Employment relationship defined.
(a)(1) In determining the identity of a responsible operator under this part, the terms “employ” and “employment” shall be construed as broadly as possible, and shall include any relationship under which an operator retains the right to direct, control, or supervise the work performed by a miner, or any other relationship under which an operator derives a benefit from the work performed by a miner. Any individuals who participate with one or more persons in the mining of coal, such as owners, proprietors, partners, and joint venturers, whether they are compensated by wages, salaries, piece rates, shares, profits, or by any other means, shall be deemed employees. It is the specific intention of this paragraph to disregard any financial arrangement or business entity devised by the actual owners or operators of a coal mine or coal mine-related enterprise to avoid the payment of benefits to miners who, based upon the economic reality of their relationship to this enterprise, are, in fact, employees of the enterprise.
(2) The payment of wages or salary shall be prima facie evidence of the right to direct, control, or supervise an individual's work. The Department intends that where the operator who paid a miner's wages or salary meets the criteria for a potentially liable operator set forth in § 725.494, that operator shall be primarily liable for the payment of any benefits due the miner as a result of such employment. The absence of such payment, however, will not negate the existence of an employment relationship. Thus, the Department also intends that where the person who paid a miner's wages may not be considered a potentially liable operator, any other operator who retained the right to direct, control or supervise the work performed by the miner, or who benefitted from such work, may be considered a potentially liable operator.
(b) This paragraph contains examples of relationships that shall be considered employment relationships for purposes of this part. The list is not intended to be exclusive.
(1) In any case in which an operator may be considered a successor operator, as determined in accordance with § 725.492, any employment with a prior operator shall also be deemed to be employment with the successor operator. In a case in which the miner was not independently employed by the successor operator, the prior operator shall remain primarily liable for the payment of any benefits based on the miner's employment with the prior operator. In a case in which the miner was independently employed by the successor operator after the transaction giving rise to successor operator liability, the successor operator shall be primarily liable for the payment of any benefits.
(2) In any case in which the operator which directed, controlled or supervised the miner is no longer in business and such operator was a subsidiary of a parent company, a member of a joint venture, a partner in a partnership, or was substantially owned or controlled by another business entity, such parent entity or other member of a joint venture or partner or controlling business entity may be considered the employer of any employees of such operator.
(3) In any claim in which the operator which directed, controlled or supervised the miner is a lessee, the lessee shall be considered primarily liable for the claim. The liability of the lessor may be established only after it has been determined that the lessee is unable to provide for the payment of benefits to a successful claimant. In any case involving the liability of a lessor for a claim arising out of employment with a lessee, any determination of lessor liability shall be made on the basis of the facts present in the case in accordance with the following considerations:
(i) Where a coal mine is leased, and the lease empowers the lessor to make
decisions with respect to the terms and conditions under which coal is to be extracted or prepared, such as, but not limited to, the manner of extraction or preparation or the amount of coal to be produced, the lessor shall be considered the employer of any employees of the lessee.
(ii) Where a coal mine is leased to a self-employed operator, the lessor shall be considered the employer of such self-employed operator and its employees if the lease or agreement is executed or renewed after August 18, 1978 and such lease or agreement does not require the lessee to guarantee the payment of benefits which may be required under this part and part 726 of this subchapter.
(iii) Where a lessor previously operated a coal mine, it may be considered an operator with respect to employees of any lessee of such mine, particularly where the leasing arrangement was executed or renewed after August 18, 1978 and does not require the lessee to secure benefits provided by the Act.
(4) A self-employed operator, depending upon the facts of the case, may be considered an employee of any other operator, person, or business entity which substantially controls, supervises, or is financially responsible for the activities of the self-employed operator.
§ 725.494
Potentially liable operators.
An operator may be considered a “potentially liable operator” with respect to a claim for benefits under this part if each of the following conditions is met:
(a) The miner's disability or death arose at least in part out of employment in or around a mine or other facility during a period when the mine or facility was operated by such operator, or by a person with respect to which the operator may be considered a successor operator. For purposes of this section, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the miner's disability or death arose in whole or in part out of his or her employment with such operator. Unless this presumption is rebutted, the responsible operator shall be liable to pay benefits to the claimant on account of the disability or death of the miner in accordance with this part. A miner's pneumoconiosis, or disability or death therefrom, shall be considered to have arisen in whole or in part out of work in or around a mine if such work caused, contributed to or aggravated the progression or advancement of a miner's loss of ability to perform his or her regular coal mine employment or comparable employment.
(b) The operator, or any person with respect to which the operator may be considered a successor operator, was an operator for any period after June 30, 1973.
(c) The miner was employed by the operator, or any person with respect to which the operator may be considered a successor operator, for a cumulative period of not less than one year (§ 725.101(a)(32)).
(d) The miner's employment with the operator, or any person with respect to which the operator may be considered a successor operator, included at least one working day (§ 725.101(a)(32)) after December 31, 1969.
(e) The operator is capable of assuming its liability for the payment of continuing benefits under this part. An operator will be deemed capable of assuming its liability for a claim if one of the following three conditions is met:
(1) The operator obtained a policy or contract of insurance under section 423 of the Act and part 726 of this subchapter that covers the claim, except that such policy shall not be considered sufficient to establish the operator's capability of assuming liability if the insurance company has been declared insolvent and its obligations for the claim are not otherwise guaranteed;
(2) The operator qualified as a self-insurer under section 423 of the Act and part 726 of this subchapter during the period in which the miner was last employed by the operator, provided that the operator still qualifies as a self-insurer or the security given by the operator pursuant to § 726.104(b) is sufficient to secure the payment of benefits in the event the claim is awarded; or
(3) The operator possesses sufficient assets to secure the payment of benefits in the event the claim is awarded in accordance with § 725.606.
§ 725.495
Criteria for determining a responsible operator.
(a)(1) The operator responsible for the payment of benefits in a claim adjudicated under this part (the “responsible operator”) shall be the potentially liable operator, as determined in accordance with § 725.494, that most recently employed the miner.
(2) If more than one potentially liable operator may be deemed to have employed the miner most recently, then the liability for any benefits payable as a result of such employment shall be assigned as follows:
(i) First, to the potentially liable operator that directed, controlled, or supervised the miner;
(ii) Second, to any potentially liable operator that may be considered a successor operator with respect to miners employed by the operator identified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section; and
(iii) Third, to any other potentially liable operator which may be deemed to have been the miner's most recent employer pursuant to § 725.493.
(3) If the operator that most recently employed the miner may not be considered a potentially liable operator, as determined in accordance with § 725.494, the responsible operator shall be the potentially liable operator that next most recently employed the miner. Any potentially liable operator that employed the miner for at least one day after December 31, 1969 may be deemed the responsible operator if no more recent employer may be considered a potentially liable operator.
(4) If the miner's most recent employment by an operator ended while the operator was authorized to self-insure its liability under part 726 of this title, and that operator no longer possesses sufficient assets to secure the payment of benefits, the provisions of paragraph (a)(3) shall be inapplicable with respect to any operator that employed the miner only before he was employed by such self-insured operator. If no operator that employed the miner after his employment with the self-insured operator meets the conditions of § 725.494, the claim of the miner or his survivor shall be the responsibility of the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund.
(b) Except as provided in this section and § 725.408(a)(3), with respect to the adjudication of the identity of a responsible operator, the Director shall bear the burden of proving that the responsible operator initially found liable for the payment of benefits pursuant to § 725.410 (the “designated responsible operator”) is a potentially liable operator. It shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the designated responsible operator is capable of assuming liability for the payment of benefits in accordance with § 725.494(e).
(c) The designated responsible operator shall bear the burden of proving either:
(1) That it does not possess sufficient assets to secure the payment of benefits in accordance with § 725.606; or
(2) That it is not the potentially liable operator that most recently employed the miner. Such proof must include evidence that the miner was employed as a miner after he or she stopped working for the designated responsible operator and that the person by whom he or she was employed is a potentially liable operator within the meaning of § 725.494. In order to establish that a more recent employer is a potentially liable operator, the designated responsible operator must demonstrate that the more recent employer possesses sufficient assets to secure the payment of benefits in accordance with § 725.606. The designated responsible operator may satisfy its burden by presenting evidence that the owner, if the more recent employer is a sole proprietorship; the partners, if the more recent employer is a partnership; or the president, secretary, and treasurer, if the more recent employer is a corporation that failed to secure the payment of benefits pursuant to part 726 of this subchapter, possess assets sufficient to secure the payment of benefits, provided such assets may be reached in a proceeding brought under subpart I of this part.
(d) In any case referred to the Office of Administrative Law Judges pursuant to § 725.421 in which the operator finally designated as responsible pursuant to § 725.418(d) is not the operator that most recently employed the
miner, the record shall contain a statement from the district director explaining the reasons for such designation. If the reasons include the most recent employer's failure to meet the conditions of § 725.494(e), the record shall also contain a statement that the Office has searched the files it maintains pursuant to part 726, and that the Office has no record of insurance coverage for that employer, or of authorization to self-insure, that meets the conditions of § 725.494(e)(1) or (e)(2). Such a statement shall be prima facie evidence that the most recent employer is not financially capable of assuming its liability for a claim. In the absence of such a statement, it shall be presumed that the most recent employer is financially capable of assuming its liability for a claim.
§ 725.496
Special claims transferred to the fund.
(a) The 1981 amendments to the Act amended section 422 of the Act and transferred liability for payment of certain special claims from operators and carriers to the fund. These provisions apply to claims which were denied before March 1, 1978, and which have been or will be approved in accordance with section 435 of the Act.
(b) Section 402(i) of the Act defines three classes of denied claims subject to the transfer provisions:
(1) Claims filed with and denied by the Social Security Administration before March 1, 1978;
(2) Claims filed with the Department of Labor in which the claimant was notified by the Department of an administrative or informal denial before March 1, 1977, and in which the claimant did not within one year of such notification either:
(i) Request a hearing; or
(ii) Present additional evidence; or
(iii) Indicate an intention to present additional evidence; or
(iv) Request a modification or reconsideration of the denial on the ground of a change in conditions or because of a mistake in a determination of fact;
(3) Claims filed with the Department of Labor and denied under the law in effect prior to the enactment of the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977, that is, before March 1, 1978, following a formal hearing before an administrative law judge or administrative review before the Benefits Review Board or review before a United States Court of Appeals.
(c) Where more than one claim was filed with the Social Security Administration and/or the Department of Labor prior to March 1, 1978, by or on behalf of a miner or a surviving dependent of a miner, unless such claims were required to be merged by the agency's regulations, the procedural history of each such claim must be considered separately to determine whether the claim is subject to the transfer of liability provisions.
(d) For a claim filed with and denied by the Social Security Administration prior to March 1, 1978, to come within the transfer provisions, such claim must have been or must be approved under the provisions of section 435 of the Act. No claim filed with and denied by the Social Security Administration is subject to the transfer of liability provisions unless a request was made by or on behalf of the claimant for review of such denied claim under section 435. Such review must have been requested by the filing of a valid election card or other equivalent document with the Social Security Administration in accordance with section 435(a) and its implementing regulations at 20 CFR 410.700 through 410.707.
(e) Where a claim filed with the Department of Labor prior to March 1, 1977, was subjected to repeated administrative or informal denials, the last such denial issued during the pendency of the claim determines whether the claim is subject to the transfer of liability provisions.
(f) Where a miner's claim comes within the transfer of liability provisions of the 1981 amendments the fund is also liable for the payment of any benefits to which the miner's dependent survivors are entitled after the miner's death. However, if the survivor's entitlement was established on a separate claim not subject to the transfer of liability provisions prior to approval of the miner's claim under section 435, the party responsible for the payment of such survivors' benefits shall not be relieved of that responsibility because the miner's claim was
ultimately approved and found subject to the transfer of liability provisions.
§ 725.497
Procedures in special claims transferred to the fund.
(a)
General.
It is the purpose of this section to define procedures to expedite the handling and disposition of claims affected by the benefit liability transfer provisions of Section 205 of the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981.
(b)
Action by the Department.
The OWCP shall, in accordance with the criteria contained in § 725.496, review each claim which is or may be affected by the provisions of Section 205 of the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981. Any party to a claim, adjudication officer, or adjudicative body may request that such a review be conducted and that the record be supplemented with any additional documentation necessary for an informed consideration of the transferability of the claim. Where the issue of the transferability of the claim can not be resolved by agreement of the parties and the evidence of record is not sufficient for a resolution of the issue, the hearing record may be reopened or the case remanded for the development of the additional evidence concerning the procedural history of the claim necessary to such resolution. Such determinations shall be made on an expedited basis.
(c)
Dismissal of operators.
If it is determined that a coal mine operator or insurance carrier which previously participated in the consideration or adjudication of any claim, may no longer be found liable for the payment of benefits to the claimant by reason of section 205 of the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981, such operator or carrier shall be promptly dismissed as a party to the claim. The dismissal of an operator or carrier shall be concluded at the earliest possible time and in no event shall an operator or carrier participate as a necessary party in any claim for which only the fund may be liable.
(d)
Procedure following dismissal of an operator.
After it has been determined that an operator or carrier must be dismissed as a party in any claim in accordance with this section, the Director shall take such action as is authorized by the Act to bring about the proper and expeditious resolution of the claim in light of all relevant medical and other evidence. Action to be taken in this regard by the Director may include, but is not limited to, the assignment of the claim to the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund for the payment of benefits, the reimbursement of benefits previously paid by an operator or carrier if appropriate, the defense of the claim on behalf of the fund, or proceedings authorized by § 725.310.
(e) Any claimant whose claim has been subsequently denied in a modification proceeding will be entitled to expedited review of the modification decision. Where a formal hearing was previously held, the claimant may waive his right to a further hearing and ask that a decision be made on the record of the prior hearing, as supplemented by any additional documentary evidence which the parties wish to introduce and briefs of the parties, if desired. In any case in which the claimant waives his right to a second hearing, a decision and order must be issued within 30 days of the date upon which the parties agree the record has been completed.

# Subpart H—Payment of Benefits

# General Provisions
§ 725.501
Payment provisions generally.
The provisions of this subpart govern the payment of benefits to claimants whose claims are approved for payment under section 415 and part C of title IV of the Act or approved after review under section 435 of the Act and part 727 of this subchapter (see § 725.4(d)).
§ 725.502
When benefit payments are due; manner of payment.
(a)(1) Except with respect to benefits paid by the fund pursuant to an initial determination issued in accordance with § 725.418 (see § 725.522), benefits under the Act shall be paid when they become due. Benefits shall be considered due after the issuance of an effective order requiring the payment of
benefits by a district director, administrative law judge, Benefits Review Board, or court, notwithstanding the pendency of a motion for reconsideration before an administrative law judge or an appeal to the Board or court, except that benefits shall not be considered due where the payment of such benefits has been stayed by the Benefits Review Board or appropriate court. An effective order shall remain in effect unless it is vacated by an administrative law judge on reconsideration, or, upon review under section 21 of the LHWCA, by the Benefits Review Board or an appropriate court, or is superseded by an effective order issued pursuant to § 725.310.
(2) A proposed order issued by a district director pursuant to § 725.418 becomes effective at the expiration of the thirtieth day thereafter if no party timely requests revision of the proposed decision and order or a hearing (see § 725.419). An order issued by an administrative law judge becomes effective when it is filed in the office of the district director (see § 725.479). An order issued by the Benefits Review Board shall become effective when it is issued. An order issued by a court shall become effective in accordance with the rules of the court.
(b)(1) While an effective order requiring the payment of benefits remains in effect, monthly benefits, at the rates set forth in § 725.520, shall be due on the fifteenth day of the month following the month for which the benefits are payable. For example, benefits payable for the month of January shall be due on the fifteenth day of February.
(2) Within 30 days after the issuance of an effective order requiring the payment of benefits, the district director shall compute the amount of benefits payable for periods prior to the effective date of the order, in addition to any interest payable for such periods (see § 725.608), and shall so notify the parties. Any computation made by the district director under this paragraph shall strictly observe the terms of the order. Benefits and interest payable for such periods shall be due on the thirtieth day following issuance of the district director's computation. A copy of the current table of applicable interest rates shall be attached to the computation.
(c) Benefits are payable for monthly periods and shall be paid directly to an eligible claimant or his or her representative payee (see § 725.510) beginning with the month during which eligibility begins. Benefit payments shall terminate with the month before the month during which eligibility terminates. If a claimant dies in the first month during which all requirements for eligibility are met, benefits shall be paid for that month.
§ 725.503
Date from which benefits are payable.
(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 6(a) of the Longshore Act as incorporated by section 422(a) of the Act, and except as provided in § 725.504, the provisions of this section shall be applicable in determining the date from which benefits are payable to an eligible claimant for any claim filed after March 31, 1980. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the date from which benefits are payable for any claim approved under part 727 shall be determined in accordance with § 727.302 (see § 725.4(d)).
(b)
Miner's claim.
Benefits are payable to a miner who is entitled beginning with the month of onset of total disability due to pneumoconiosis arising out of coal mine employment. Where the evidence does not establish the month of onset, benefits shall be payable to such miner beginning with the month during which the claim was filed. In the case of a miner who filed a claim before January 1, 1982, benefits shall be payable to the miner's eligible survivor (if any) beginning with the month in which the miner died.
(c)
Survivor's claim.
Benefits are payable to a survivor who is entitled beginning with the month of the miner's death, or January 1, 1974, whichever is later.
(d) If a claim is awarded pursuant to section 22 of the Longshore Act and § 725.310, then the date from which benefits are payable shall be determined as follows:
(1)
Mistake in fact.
The provisions of paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section, as
applicable, shall govern the determination of the date from which benefits are payable.
(2)
Change in conditions.
Benefits are payable to a miner beginning with the month of onset of total disability due to pneumoconiosis arising out of coal mine employment, provided that no benefits shall be payable for any month prior to the effective date of the most recent denial of the claim by a district director or administrative law judge. Where the evidence does not establish the month of onset, benefits shall be payable to such miner from the month in which the claimant requested modification.
(e) In the case of a claim filed between July 1, 1973, and December 31, 1973, benefits shall be payable as provided by this section, except to the extent prohibited by § 727.303 (see § 725.4(d)).
(f) No benefits shall be payable with respect to a claim filed after December 31, 1973 (a part C claim), for any period of eligibility occurring before January 1, 1974.
(g) Each decision and order awarding benefits shall indicate the month from which benefits are payable to the eligible claimant.
§ 725.504
Payments to a claimant employed as a miner.
(a) In the case of a claimant who is employed as a miner (see § 725.202) at the time of a final determination of such miner's eligibility for benefits, no benefits shall be payable unless:
(1) The miner's eligibility is established under section 411(c)(3) of the Act; or
(2) the miner terminates his or her coal mine employment within 1 year from the date of the final determination of the claim.
(b) If the eligibility of a working miner is established under section 411(c)(3) of the Act, benefits shall be payable as is otherwise provided in this part. If eligibility cannot be established under section 411(c)(3), and the miner continues to be employed as a miner in any capacity for a period of less than 1 year after a final determination of the claim, benefits shall be payable beginning with the month during which the miner ends his or her coal mine employment. If the miner's employment continues for more than 1 year after a final determination of eligibility, such determination shall be considered a denial of benefits on the basis of the miner's continued employment, and the miner may seek benefits only as provided in § 725.310, if applicable, or by filing a new claim under this part. The provisions of Subparts E and F of this part shall be applicable to claims considered under this section as is appropriate.
(c) In any case where the miner returns to coal mine or comparable and gainful work, the payments to such miner shall be suspended and no benefits shall be payable (except as provided in section 411(c)(3) of the Act) for the period during which the miner continues to work. If the miner again terminates employment, the district director may require the miner to submit to further medical examination before authorizing the payment of benefits.
§ 725.505
Payees.
Benefits may be paid, as appropriate, to a beneficiary, to a qualified dependent, or to a representative authorized under this subpart to receive payments on behalf of such beneficiary or dependent.
§ 725.506
Payment on behalf of another; “legal guardian” defined.
Benefits are paid only to the beneficiary, his or her representative payee (see § 725.510) or his or her legal guardian. As used in this section, “legal guardian” means an individual who has been appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise appointed pursuant to law to assume control of and responsibility for the care of the beneficiary, the management of his or her estate, or both.
§ 725.507
Guardian for minor or incompetent.
An adjudication officer may require that a legal guardian or representative be appointed to receive benefit payments payable to any person who is mentally incompetent or a minor and to exercise the powers granted to, or to perform the duties otherwise required of such person under the Act.
§ 725.510
Representative payee.
(a) If the district director determines that the best interests of a beneficiary are served thereby, the district director may certify the payment of such beneficiary's benefits to a representative payee.
(b) Before any amount shall be certified for payment to any representative payee for or on behalf of a beneficiary, such representative payee shall submit to the district director such evidence as may be required of his or her relationship to, or his or her responsibility for the care of, the beneficiary on whose behalf payment is to be made, or of his or her authority to receive such a payment. The district director may, at any time thereafter, require evidence of the continued existence of such relationship, responsibility, or authority. If a person requesting representative payee status fails to submit the required evidence within a reasonable period of time after it is requested, no further payments shall be certified to him or her on behalf of the beneficiary unless the required evidence is thereafter submitted.
(c) All benefit payments made to a representative payee shall be available only for the use and benefit of the beneficiary, as defined in § 725.511.
§ 725.511
Use and benefit defined.
(a) Payments certified to a representative payee shall be considered as having been applied for the use and benefit of the beneficiary when they are used for the beneficiary's current maintenance—
i.e.,
to replace current income lost because of the disability of the beneficiary. Where a beneficiary is receiving care in an institution, current maintenance shall include the customary charges made by the institution and charges made for the current and foreseeable needs of the beneficiary which are not met by the institution.
(b) Payments certified to a representative payee which are not needed for the current maintenance of the beneficiary, except as they may be used under § 725.512, shall be conserved or invested on the beneficiary's behalf. Preferred investments are U.S. savings bonds which shall be purchased in accordance with applicable regulations of the U.S. Treasury Department (31 CFR part 315). Surplus funds may also be invested in accordance with the rules applicable to investment of trust estates by trustees. For example, surplus funds may be deposited in an interest or dividend bearing account in a bank or trust company or in a savings and loan association if the account is either federally insured or is otherwise insured in accordance with State law requirements. Surplus funds deposited in an interest or dividend bearing account in a bank or trust company or in a savings and loan association must be in a form of account which clearly shows that the representative payee has only a fiduciary, and not a personal, interest in the funds. The preferred forms of such accounts are as follows:
Name of beneficiary
by (Name of representative payee) representative payee,
or (Name of beneficiary)
by (Name of representative payee) trustee,
U.S. savings bonds purchased with surplus funds by a representative payee for an incapacitated adult beneficiary should be registered as follows: (Name of beneficiary) (Social Security No.), for whom (Name of payee) is representative payee for black lung benefits.
§ 725.512
Support of legally dependent spouse, child, or parent.
If current maintenance needs of a beneficiary are being reasonably met, a relative or other person to whom payments are certified as representative payee on behalf of the beneficiary may use part of the payments so certified for the support of the legally dependent spouse, a legally dependent child, or a legally dependent parent of the beneficiary.
§ 725.513
Accountability; transfer.
(a) The district director may require a representative payee to submit periodic reports including a full accounting of the use of all benefit payments certified to a representative payee. If a requested report or accounting is not submitted within the time allowed, the district director shall terminate the certification of the representative payee and thereafter payments shall be
made directly to the beneficiary. A certification which is terminated under this section may be reinstated for good cause, provided that all required reports are supplied to the district director.
(b) A representative payee who has conserved or invested funds from payments under this part shall, upon the direction of the district director, transfer any such funds (including interest) to a successor payee appointed by the district director or, at the option of the district director, shall transfer such funds to the Office for recertification to a successor payee or the beneficiary.
§ 725.514
Certification to dependent of augmentation portion of benefit.
(a) If the basic benefit of a miner or of a surviving spouse is augmented because of one or more dependents, and it appears to the district director that the best interests of such dependent would be served thereby, or that the augmented benefit is not being used for the use and benefit (as defined in this subpart) of the augmentee, the district director may certify payment of the amount of such augmentation (to the extent attributable to such dependent) to such dependent directly, or to a legal guardian or a representative payee for the use and benefit of such dependent.
(b) Any request to the district director to certify separate payment of the amount of an augmentation in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be in writing on such form and in accordance with such instructions as are prescribed by the Office.
(c) The district director shall specify the terms and conditions of any certification authorized under this section and may terminate any such certification where appropriate.
(d) Any payment made under this section, if otherwise valid under the Act, is a complete settlement and satisfaction of all claims, rights, and interests in and to such payment, except that such payment shall not be construed to abridge the rights of any party to recoup any overpayment made.
§ 725.515
Assignment and exemption from claims of creditors.
(a) Except as provided by the Act and this part, no assignment, release, or commutation of benefits due or payable under this part by a responsible operator shall be valid, and all benefits shall be exempt from claims of creditors and from levy, execution, and attachment or other remedy or recovery or collection of a debt, which exemption may not be waived.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, benefits due from, or payable by, the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund under the Act and this part to a claimant shall be subject to legal process brought for the enforcement against the claimant of his or her legal obligations to provide child support or make alimony payments to the same extent as if the fund was a private person.

# Benefit Rates
§ 725.520
Computation of benefits.
(a)
Basic rate.
The amount of benefits payable to a beneficiary for a month is determined, in the first instance, by computing the “basic rate.” The basic rate is equal to 37
1/2
percent of the monthly pay rate for Federal employees in GS-2, step 1. That rate for a month is determined by:
(1) Ascertaining the lowest annual rate of pay (step 1) for Grade GS-2 of the General Schedule applicable to such month (see 5 U.S.C. 5332);
(2) Ascertaining the monthly rate thereof by dividing the amount determined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section by 12; and
(3) Ascertaining the basic rate under the Act by multiplying the amount determined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section by 0.375 (that is, by 37
1/2
percent).
(b)
Basic benefit.
When a miner or surviving spouse is entitled to benefits for a month for which he or she has no dependents who qualify under this part and when a surviving child of a miner or spouse, or a parent, brother, or sister of a miner, is entitled to benefits for a month for which he or she is the only beneficiary entitled to benefits, the amount of benefits to which such beneficiary is entitled is equal to the basic rate as computed in accordance
with this section (raised, if not a multiple of 10 cents, to the next high multiple of 10 cents). This amount is referred to as the “basic benefit.”
(c)
Augmented benefit.
(1) When a miner or surviving spouse is entitled to benefits for a month for which he or she has one or more dependents who qualify under this part, the amount of benefits to which such miner or surviving spouse is entitled is increased. This increase is referred to as an “augmentation.”
(2) The benefits of a miner or surviving spouse are augmented to take account of a particular dependent beginning with the first month in which such dependent satisfies the conditions set forth in this part, and continues to be augmented through the month before the month in which such dependent ceases to satisfy the conditions set forth in this part, except in the case of a child who qualifies as a dependent because he or she is a student. In the latter case, such benefits continue to be augmented through the month before the first month during no part of which he or she qualifies as a student.
(3) The basic rate is augmented by 50 percent for one such dependent, 75 percent for two such dependents, and 100 percent for three or more such dependents.
(d)
Survivor benefits.
As used in this section, “survivor” means a surviving child of a miner or surviving spouse, or a surviving parent, brother, or sister of a miner, who establishes entitlement to benefits under this part.
(e)
Computation and rounding.
(1) Any computation prescribed by this section is made to the third decimal place.
(2) Monthly benefits are payable in multiples of 10 cents. Therefore, a monthly payment of amounts derived under paragraph (c)(3) of this section which is not a multiple of 10 cents is increased to the next higher multiple of 10 cents.
(3) Since a fraction of a cent is not a multiple of 10 cents, such an amount which contains a fraction in the third decimal place is raised to the next higher multiple of 10 cents.
(f)
Eligibility based on the coal mine employment of more than one miner.
Where an individual, for any month, is entitled (and/or qualifies as a dependent for purposes of augmentation of benefits) based on the disability or death due to pneumoconiosis arising out of the coal mine employment of more than one miner, the benefit payable to or on behalf of such individual shall be at a rate equal to the highest rate of benefits for which entitlement is established by reason of eligibility as a beneficiary, or by reason of his or her qualification as a dependent for augmentation of benefit purposes.
§ 725.521
Commutation of payments; lump sum awards.
(a) Whenever the district director determines that it is in the interest of justice, the liability for benefits or any part thereof as determined by a final adjudication, may, with the approval of the Director, be discharged by the payment of a lump sum equal to the present value of future benefit payments commuted, computed at 4 percent true discount compounded annually.
(b) Applications for commutation of future payments of benefits shall be made to the district director in the manner prescribed by the district director. If the district director determines that an award of a lump sum payment of such benefits would be in the interest of justice, he or she shall refer such application, together with the reasons in support of such determination, to the Director for consideration.
(c) The Director shall, in his or her discretion, grant or deny the application for commutation of payments. Such decision may be appealed to the Benefits Review Board.
(d) The computation of all commutations of such benefits shall be made by the OWCP. For this purpose the file shall contain the date of birth of the person on whose behalf commutation is sought, as well as the date upon which such commutation shall be effective.
(e) For purposes of determining the amount of any lump sum award, the probability of the death of the disabled miner and/or other persons entitled to benefits before the expiration of the period during which he or she is entitled to benefits, shall be determined in accordance with the most current United
States Life Tables, as developed by the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and the probability of the remarriage of a surviving spouse shall be determined in accordance with the remarriage tables of the Dutch Royal Insurance Institution. The probability of the happening of any other contingency affecting the amount or duration of the compensation shall be disregarded.
(f) In the event that an operator or carrier is adjudicated liable for the payment of benefits, such operator or carrier shall be notified of and given an opportunity to participate in the proceedings to determine whether a lump sum award shall be made. Such operator or carrier shall, in the event a lump sum award is made, tender full and prompt payment of such award to the claimant as though such award were a final payment of monthly benefits. Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, such lump sum award shall forever discharge such operator or carrier from its responsibility to make monthly benefit payments under the Act to the person who has requested such lump-sum award. In the event that an operator or carrier is adjudicated liable for the payment of benefits, such operator or carrier shall not be liable for any portion of a commuted or lump sum award predicated upon benefits due any claimant prior to January 1, 1974.
(g) In the event a lump-sum award is approved under this section, such award shall not operate to discharge an operator carrier, or the fund from any responsibility imposed by the Act for the payment of medical benefits to an eligible miner.
§ 725.522
Payments prior to final adjudication.
(a) If an operator or carrier fails or refuses to commence the payment of benefits within 30 days of issuance of an initial determination of eligibility by the district director (see § 725.420), or fails or refuses to commence the payment of any benefits due pursuant to an effective order by a district director, administrative law judge, Benefits Review Board, or court, the fund shall commence the payment of such benefits and shall continue such payments as appropriate. In the event that the fund undertakes the payment of benefits on behalf of an operator or carrier, the provisions of §§ 725.601 through 725.609 shall be applicable to such operator or carrier.
(b) If benefit payments are commenced prior to the final adjudication of the claim and it is later determined by an administrative law judge, the Board, or court that the claimant was ineligible to receive such payments, such payments shall be considered overpayments pursuant to § 725.540 and may be recovered in accordance with the provisions of this subpart.

# Special Provisions for Operator Payments
§ 725.530
Operator payments; generally.
(a) Benefits payable by an operator or carrier pursuant to an effective order issued by a district director, administrative law judge, Benefits Review Board, or court, or by an operator that has agreed that it is liable for the payment of benefits to a claimant, shall be paid by the operator or carrier immediately when they become due (see § 725.502(b)). An operator that fails to pay any benefits that are due, with interest, shall be considered in default with respect to those benefits, and the provisions of § 725.605 of this part shall be applicable. In addition, a claimant who does not receive any benefits within 10 days of the date they become due is entitled to additional compensation equal to twenty percent of those benefits (see § 725.607). Arrangements for the payment of medical costs shall be made by such operator or carrier in accordance with the provisions of subpart J of this part.
(b) Benefit payments made by an operator or carrier shall be made directly to the person entitled thereto or a representative payee if authorized by the district director. The payment of a claimant's attorney's fee, if any is awarded, shall be made directly to such attorney. Reimbursement of the fund, including interest, shall be paid directly to the Secretary on behalf of the fund.
§ 725.531
Receipt for payment.
Any individual receiving benefits under the Act in his or her own right, or as a representative payee, or as the duly appointed agent for the estate of a deceased beneficiary, shall execute receipts for benefits paid by any operator which shall be produced by such operator for inspection whenever the district director requires. A canceled check shall be considered adequate receipt of payment for purposes of this section. No operator or carrier shall be required to retain receipts for payments made for more than 5 years after the date on which such receipt was executed.
§ 725.532
Suspension, reduction, or termination of payments.
(a) No suspension, reduction, or termination in the payment of benefits is permitted unless authorized by the district director, administrative law judge, Board, or court. No suspension, reduction, or termination shall be authorized except upon the occurrence of an event which terminates a claimant's eligibility for benefits (see subpart B of this part) or as is otherwise provided in subpart C of this part, §§ 725.306 and 725.310, or this subpart (see also §§ 725.533 through 725.546).
(b) Any unauthorized suspension in the payment of benefits by an operator or carrier shall be treated as provided in subpart I.
(c) Unless suspension, reduction, or termination of benefits payments is required by an administrative law judge, the Benefits Review Board or a court, the district director, after receiving notification of the occurrence of an event that would require the suspension, reduction, or termination of benefits, shall follow the procedures for the determination of claims set forth in subparts E and F.

# Increases and Reductions of Benefits
§ 725.533
Modification of benefits amounts; general.
(a) Under certain circumstances, the amount of monthly benefits as computed in § 725.520 or lump-sum award (§ 725.521) shall be modified to determine the amount actually to be paid to a beneficiary. With respect to any benefits payable for all periods of eligibility after January 1, 1974, a reduction of the amount of benefits payable shall be required on account of:
(1) Any compensation or benefits received under any State workers' compensation law because of death or partial or total disability due to pneumoconiosis; or
(2) Any compensation or benefits received under or pursuant to any Federal law including part B of title IV of the Act because of death or partial or total disability due to pneumoconiosis; or
(3) In the case of benefits to a parent, brother, or sister as a result of a claim filed at any time or benefits payable on a miner's claim which was filed on or after January 1, 1982, the excess earnings from wages and from net earnings from self-employment (see § 410.530 of this title) of such parent, brother, sister, or miner, respectively; or
(4) The fact that a claim for benefits from an additional beneficiary is filed, or that such claim is effective for a payment during the month of filing, or a dependent qualifies under this part for an augmentation portion of a benefit of a miner or widow for a period in which another dependent has previously qualified for an augmentation.
(b) An adjustment in a beneficiary's monthly benefit may be required because an overpayment or underpayment has been made to such beneficiary (see §§ 725.540-725.546).
(c) A suspension of a beneficiary's monthly benefits may be required when the Office has information indicating that reductions on account of excess earnings may reasonably be expected.
(d) Monthly benefit rates are payable in multiples of 10 cents. Any monthly benefit rate which, after the applicable computations, augmentations, and reductions is not a multiple of 10 cents, is increased to the next higher multiple of 10 cents. Since a fraction of a cent is not a multiple of 10 cents, a benefit rate which contains such a fraction in the third decimal is raised to the next higher multiple of 10 cents.
(e) Any individual entitled to a benefit, who is aware of any circumstances which could affect entitlement to benefits, eligibility for payment, or the
amount of benefits, or result in the termination, suspension, or reduction of benefits, shall promptly report these circumstances to the Office. The Office may at any time require an individual receiving, or claiming entitlement to, benefits, either on his or her own behalf or on behalf of another, to submit a written statement giving pertinent information bearing upon the issue of whether or not an event has occurred which would cause such benefit to be terminated, or which would subject such benefit to reductions or suspension under the provisions of the Act. The failure of an individual to submit any such report or statement, properly executed, to the Office shall subject such benefit to reductions, suspension, or termination as the case may be.
§ 725.534
Reduction of State benefits.
No benefits under section 415 of part B of title IV of the Act shall be payable to the residents of a State which, after December 31, 1969, reduces the benefits payable to persons eligible to receive benefits under section 415 of the Act under State laws applicable to its general work force with regard to workers' compensation (including compensation for occupational disease), unemployment compensation, or disability insurance benefits which are funded in whole or in part out of employer contributions.
§ 725.535
Reductions; receipt of State or Federal benefit.
(a) As used in this section the term “State or Federal benefit” means a payment to an individual on account of total or partial disability or death due to pneumoconiosis only under State or Federal laws relating to workers' compensation. With respect to a claim for which benefits are payable for any month between July 1 and December 31, 1973, “State benefit” means a payment to a beneficiary made on account of disability or death due to pneumoconiosis under State laws relating to workers' compensation (including compensation for occupational disease), unemployment compensation, or disability insurance.
(b) Benefit payments to a beneficiary for any month are reduced (but not below zero) by an amount equal to any payments of State or Federal benefits received by such beneficiary for such month.
(c) Where a State or Federal benefit is paid periodically but not monthly, or in a lump sum as a commutation of or a substitution for periodic benefits, the reduction under this section is made at such time or times and in such amounts as the Office determines will approximate as nearly as practicable the reduction required under paragraph (b) of this section. In making such a determination, a weekly State or Federal benefit is multiplied by 4
1/3
and a biweekly benefit is multiplied by 2
1/6
to ascertain the monthly equivalent for reduction purposes.
(d) Amounts paid or incurred or to be incurred by the individual for medical, legal, or related expenses in connection with this claim for State or Federal benefits (defined in paragraph (a) of this section) are excluded in computing the reduction under paragraph (b) of this section, to the extent that they are consistent with State or Federal Law. Such medical, legal, or related expenses may be evidenced by the State or Federal benefit awards, compromise agreement, or court order in the State or Federal benefit proceedings, or by such other evidence as the Office may require. Such other evidence may consist of:
(1) A detailed statement by the individual's attorney, physician, or the employer's insurance carrier; or
(2) Bills, receipts, or canceled checks; or
(3) Other evidence indicating the amount of such expenses; or
(4) Any combination of the foregoing evidence from which the amount of such expenses may be determinable. Such expenses shall not be excluded unless established by evidence as required by the Office.
§ 725.536
Reductions; excess earnings.
In the case of a surviving parent, brother, or sister, whose claim was filed at any time, or of a miner whose claim was filed on or after January 1, 1982, benefit payments are reduced as appropriate by an amount equal to the deduction which would be made with respect to excess earnings under the provisions of sections 203 (b), (f), (g),
(h), (j), and (l) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 403 (b), (f), (g), (h), (j), and (l)), as if such benefit payments were benefits payable under section 202 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 402) (see §§ 404.428 through 404.456 of this title).
§ 725.537
Reductions; retroactive effect of an additional claim for benefits.
Except as provided in § 725.212(b), beginning with the month in which a person other than a miner files a claim and becomes entitled to benefits, the benefits of other persons entitled to benefits with respect to the same miner, are adjusted downward, if necessary, so that no more than the permissible amount of benefits (the maximum amount for the number of beneficiaries involved) will be paid.
§ 725.538
Reductions; effect of augmentation of benefits based on subsequent qualification of individual.
(a) Ordinarily, a written request that the benefits of a miner or surviving spouse be augmented on account of a qualified dependent is made as part of the claim for benefits. However, it may also be made thereafter.
(b) In the latter case, beginning with the month in which such a request is filed on account of a particular dependent and in which such dependent qualifies for augmentation purposes under this part, the augmented benefits attributable to other qualified dependents (with respect to the same miner or surviving spouse), if any, are adjusted downward, if necessary, so that the permissible amount of augmented benefits (the maximum amount for the number of dependents involved) will not be exceeded.
(c) Where, based on the entitlement to benefits of a miner or surviving spouse, a dependent would have qualified for augmentation purposes for a prior month of such miner's or surviving spouse's entitlement had such request been filed in such prior month, such request is effective for such prior month. For any month before the month of filing such request, however, otherwise correct benefits previously certified by the Office may not be changed. Rather the amount of the augmented benefit attributable to the dependent filing such request in the later month is reduced for each month of the retroactive period to the extent that may be necessary. This means that for each month of the retroactive period, the amount payable to the dependent filing the later augmentation request is the difference, if any, between:
(1) The total amount of augmented benefits certified for payment for other dependents for that month, and
(2) The permissible amount of augmented benefits (the maximum amount for the number of dependents involved) payable for the month for all dependents, including the dependent filing later.
§ 725.539
More than one reduction event.
If a reduction for receipt of State or Federal benefits and a reduction on account of excess earnings are chargeable to the same month, the benefit for such month is first reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of the State or Federal benefits, and the remainder of the benefit for such month, if any, is then reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of excess earnings chargeable to such month.

# Overpayments; Underpayments
§ 725.540
Overpayments.
(a)
General.
As used in this subpart, the term “overpayment” includes:
(1) Payment where no amount is payable under this part;
(2) Payment in excess of the amount payable under this part;
(3) A payment under this part which has not been reduced by the amounts required by the Act (see § 725.533);
(4) A payment under this part made to a resident of a State whose residents are not entitled to benefits (see §§ 725.402 and 725.403);
(5) Payment resulting from failure to terminate benefits to an individual no longer entitled thereto;
(6) Duplicate benefits paid to a claimant on account of concurrent eligibility under this part and parts 410 or 727 (see § 725.4(d)) of this title or as provided in § 725.309.
(b)
Overpaid beneficiary is living.
If the beneficiary to whom an overpayment
was made is living at the time of a determination of such overpayment, is entitled to benefits at the time of the overpayment, or at any time thereafter becomes so entitled, no benefit for any month is payable to such individual, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, until an amount equal to the amount of the overpayment has been withheld or refunded.
(c)
Adjustment by withholding part of a monthly benefit.
Adjustment under paragraph (b) of this section may be effected by withholding a part of the monthly benefit payable to a beneficiary where it is determined that:
(1) Withholding the full amount each month would deprive the beneficiary of income required for ordinary and necessary living expenses;
(2) The overpayment was not caused by the beneficiary's intentionally false statement or representation, or willful concealment of, or deliberate failure to furnish, material information; and
(3) Recoupment can be effected in an amount of not less than $ 10 a month and at a rate which would not unreasonably extend the period of adjustment.
(d)
Overpaid beneficiary dies before adjustment.
If an overpaid beneficiary dies before adjustment is completed under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, recovery of the overpayment shall be effected through repayment by the estate of the deceased overpaid beneficiary, or by withholding of amounts due the estate of such deceased beneficiary, or both.
§ 725.541
Notice of waiver of adjustment or recovery of overpayment.
Whenever a determination is made that more than the correct amount of payment has been made, notice of the provisions of section 204(b) of the Social Security Act regarding waiver of adjustment or recovery shall be sent to the overpaid individual, to any other individual against whom adjustment or recovery of the overpayment is to be effected, and to any operator or carrier which may be liable to such overpaid individual.
§ 725.542
When waiver of adjustment or recovery may be applied.
There shall be no adjustment or recovery of an overpayment in any case where an incorrect payment has been made with respect to an individual:
(a) Who is without fault, and where
(b) Adjustment or recovery would either:
(1) Defeat the purpose of title IV of the Act, or
(2) Be against equity and good conscience.
§ 725.543
Standards for waiver of adjustment or recovery.
The standards for determining the applicability of the criteria listed in § 725.542 shall be the same as those applied by the Social Security Administration under §§ 404.506 through 404.512 of this title.
§ 725.544
Collection and compromise of claims for overpayment.
(a)
General effect of 31 U.S.C. 3711.
In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711 and applicable regulations, claims by the Office against an individual for recovery of an overpayment under this part not exceeding the sum of $100,000, exclusive of interest, may be compromised, or collection suspended or terminated, where such individual or his or her estate does not have the present or prospective ability to pay the full amount of the claim within a reasonable time (see paragraph (c) of this section), or the cost of collection is likely to exceed the amount of recovery (see paragraph (d) of this section), except as provided under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
When there will be no compromise, suspension, or termination of collection of a claim for overpayment.
(1) In any case where the overpaid individual is alive, a claim for overpayment will not be compromised, nor will there be suspension or termination of collection of the claim by the Office, if there is an indication of fraud, the filing of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of such individual or on the part of any other party having any interest in the claim.
(2) In any case where the overpaid individual is deceased:
(i) A claim for overpayment in excess of $ 5,000 will not be compromised, nor will there be suspension or termination of collection of the claim by the Office if there is an indication of fraud, the filing of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of such deceased individual; and
(ii) A claim for overpayment, regardless of the amount, will not be compromised, nor will there be suspension or termination of collection of the claim by the Office if there is an indication that any person other than the deceased overpaid individual had a part in the fraudulent action which resulted in the overpayment.
(c)
Inability to pay claim for recovery of overpayment.
In determining whether the overpaid individual is unable to pay a claim for recovery of an overpayment under this part, the Office shall consider the individual's age, health, present and potential income (including inheritance prospects), assets (e.g., real property, savings account), possible concealment or improper transfer of assets, and assets or income of such individual which may be available in enforced collection proceedings. The Office will also consider exemptions available to such individual under the pertinent State or Federal law in such proceedings. In the event the overpaid individual is deceased, the Office shall consider the available assets of the estate, taking into account any liens or superior claims against the estate.
(d)
Cost of collection or litigative probabilities.
Where the probable costs of recovering an overpayment under this part would not justify enforced collection proceedings for the full amount of the claim, or where there is doubt concerning the Office's ability to establish its claim as well as the time which it will take to effect such collection, a compromise or settlement for less than the full amount may be considered.
(e)
Amount of compromise.
The amount to be accepted in compromise of a claim for overpayment under this part shall bear a reasonable relationship to the amount which can be recovered by enforced collection proceedings, giving due consideration to the exemption available to the overpaid individual under State or Federal law and the time which collection will take.
(f)
Payment.
Payment of the amount the Office has agreed to accept as a compromise in full settlement of a claim for recovery of an overpayment under this part shall be made within the time and in the manner set by the Office. A claim for the overpayment shall not be considered compromised or settled until the full payment of the compromised amount has been made within the time and manner set by the Office. Failure of the overpaid individual or his or her estate to make such payment as provided shall result in reinstatement of the full amount of the overpayment less any amounts paid prior to such default.
§ 725.545
Underpayments.
(a)
General.
As used in this subpart, the term “underpayment” includes a payment in an amount less than the amount of the benefit due for such month, and nonpayment where some amount of such benefits is payable.
(b)
Underpaid individual is living.
If an individual to whom an underpayment was made is living, the deficit represented by such underpayment shall be paid to such individual either in a single payment (if he or she is not entitled to a monthly benefit or if a single payment is requested by the claimant in writing) or by increasing one or more monthly benefit payments to which such individual becomes entitled.
(c)
Underpaid individual dies before adjustment of underpayment.
If an individual to whom an underpayment was made dies before receiving payment of the deficit or negotiating the check or checks representing payment of the deficit, such payment shall be distributed to the living person (or persons) in the highest order of priority as follows:
(1) The deceased individual's surviving spouse who was either:
(i) Living in the same household with the deceased individual at the time of such individual's death; or
(ii) In the case of a deceased miner, entitled for the month of death to black lung benefits as his or her surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse.
(2) In the case of a deceased miner or spouse his or her child entitled to benefits as the surviving child of such
miner or surviving spouse for the month in which such miner or spouse died (if more than one such child, in equal shares to each such child).
(3) In the case of a deceased miner, his parent entitled to benefits as the surviving parent of such miner for the month in which such miner died (if more than one such parent, in equal shares to each such parent).
(4) The surviving spouse of the deceased individual who does not qualify under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(5) The child or children of the deceased individual who do not qualify under paragraph (c)(2) of this section (if more than one such child, in equal shares to each such child).
(6) The parent or parents of the deceased individual who do not qualify under paragraph (c)(3) of this section (if more than one such parent, in equal shares to each such parent).
(7) The legal representative of the estate of the deceased individual as defined in paragraph (e) of this section.
(d)
Deceased beneficiary.
In the event that a person, who is otherwise qualified to receive payments as the result of a deficit caused by an underpayment under the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section, dies before receiving payment or before negotiating the check or checks representing such payment, his or her share of the underpayment shall be divided among the remaining living person(s) in the same order or priority. In the event that there is (are) no other such person(s), the underpayment shall be paid to the living person(s) in the next lower order of priority under paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Definition of legal representative.
The term “legal representative,” for the purpose of qualifying for receipt of an underpayment, generally means the executor or the administrator of the estate of the deceased beneficiary. However, it may also include an individual, institution or organization acting on behalf of an unadministered estate, provided the person can give the Office good acquittance (as defined in paragraph (f) of this section). The following persons may qualify as legal representative for purposes of this section, provided they can give the Office good acquittance:
(1) A person who qualifies under a State's “small estate” statute; or
(2) A person resident in a foreign country who under the laws and customs of that country, has the right to receive assets of the estate; or
(3) A public administrator; or
(4) A person who has the authority under applicable law to collect the assets of the estate of the deceased beneficiary.
(f)
Definition of “good acquittance.”
A person is considered to give the Office “good acquittance” when payment to that person will release the Office from further liability for such payment.
§ 725.546
Relation to provisions for reductions or increases.
The amount of an overpayment or an underpayment is the difference between the amount to which the beneficiary was actually entitled and the amount paid. Overpayment and underpayment simultaneously outstanding against the same beneficiary shall first be adjusted against one another before adjustment pursuant to the other provisions of this subpart.
§ 725.547
Applicability of overpayment and underpayment provisions to operator or carrier.
(a) The provisions of this subpart relating to overpayments and underpayments shall be applicable to overpayments and underpayments made by responsible operators or their insurance carriers, as appropriate.
(b) No operator or carrier may recover, or make an adjustment of, an overpayment without prior application to, and approval by, the Office which shall exercise full supervisory authority over the recovery or adjustment of all overpayments.
§ 725.548
Procedures applicable to overpayments and underpayments.
(a) In any case involving either overpayments or underpayments, the Office may take any necessary action, and district directors may issue appropriate orders to protect the rights of the parties.
(b) Disputes arising out of orders so issued shall be resolved by the procedures set out in subpart F of this part.

# Subpart I—Enforcement of Liability; Reports
§ 725.601
Enforcement generally.
(a) The Act, together with certain incorporated provisions from the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, contains a number of provisions which subject an operator or other employer, claimants and others to penalties for failure to comply with certain provisions of the Act, or failure to commence and continue prompt periodic payments to a beneficiary.
(b) It is the policy and intent of the Department to vigorously enforce the provisions of this part through the use of the remedies provided by the Act. Accordingly, if an operator refuses to pay benefits with respect to a claim for which the operator has been adjudicated liable, the Director may invoke and execute the lien on the property of the operator as described in § 725.603. Enforcement of this lien must be pursued in an appropriate U.S. district court. If the Director determines that the remedy provided by § 725.603 may not be sufficient to guarantee the continued compliance with the terms of an award or awards against the operator, the Director may in addition seek an injunction in the U.S. district court to prohibit future noncompliance by the operator and such other relief as the court considers appropriate (
see
§ 725.604). If an operator unlawfully suspends or terminates the payment of benefits to a claimant, the district director may declare the award in default and proceed in accordance with § 725.605. In all cases payments of additional compensation (
see
§ 725.607) and interest (
see
§ 725.608) will be sought by the Director or awarded by the district director.
(c) In certain instances the remedies provided by the Act are concurrent; that is, more than one remedy might be appropriate in any given case. In such a case, the Director may select the remedy or remedies appropriate for the enforcement action. In making this selection, the Director shall consider the best interests of the claimant as well as those of the fund.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 24481, Apr. 26, 2016]
§ 725.602
Reimbursement of the fund.
(a) In any case in which the fund has paid benefits, including medical benefits, on behalf of an operator or other employer which is determined liable therefore, or liable for a part thereof, such operator or other employer shall simultaneously with the first payment of benefits made to the beneficiary, reimburse the fund (with interest) for the full amount of all benefit payments made by the fund with respect to the claim.
(b) In any case where benefit payments have been made by the fund, the fund shall be subrogated to the rights of the beneficiary. The Secretary of Labor may, as appropriate, exercise such subrogation rights.
§ 725.603
Payments by the fund on behalf of an operator; liens.
(a) If an amount is paid out of the fund to an individual entitled to benefits under this part or part 727 of this subchapter (see § 725.4(d)) on behalf of an operator or other employer which is or was required to pay or secure the payment of all or a portion of such amount (see § 725.522), the operator or other employer shall be liable to the United States for repayment to the fund of the amount of benefits properly attributable to such operator or other employer.
(b) If an operator or other employer liable to the fund refuses to pay, after demand, the amount of such liability, there shall be a lien in favor of the United States upon all property and rights to property, whether real or personal, belonging to such operator or other employer. The lien arises on the date on which such liability is finally determined, and continues until it is satisfied or becomes unenforceable by reason of lapse of time.
(c)(1) Except as otherwise provided under this section, the priority of the lien shall be determined in the same manner as under section 6323 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C.).
(2) In the case of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, the lien imposed under this section shall be treated in the same manner as a lien for taxes due and owing to the United States for purposes of the Bankruptcy Act or section
3466 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 191).
(3) For purposes of applying section 6323(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C.) to determine the priority between the lien imposed under this section and the Federal tax lien, each lien shall be treated as a judgment lien arising as of the time notice of such lien is filed.
(4) For purposes of the section, notice of the lien imposed hereunder shall be filed in the same manner as under section 6323(f) (disregarding paragraph (4) thereof) and (g) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C.).
(5) In any case where there has been a refusal or neglect to pay the liability imposed under this section, the Secretary of Labor may bring a civil action in a district court of the United States to enforce the lien of the United States under this section with respect to such liability or to subject any property, of whatever nature, of the operator, or in which it has any right, title, or interest, to the payment of such liability.
(6) The liability imposed by this paragraph may be collected at a proceeding in court if the proceeding is commenced within 6 years after the date upon which the liability was finally determined, or prior to the expiration of any period for collection agreed upon in writing by the operator and the United States before the expiration of such 6-year period. This period of limitation shall be suspended for any period during which the assets of the operator are in the custody or control of any court of the United States, or of any State, or the District of Columbia, and for 6 months thereafter, and for any period during which the operator is outside the United States if such period of absence is for a continuous period of at least 6 months.
§ 725.604
Enforcement of final awards.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 725.603, if an operator or other employer or its officers or agents fails to comply with an order awarding benefits that has become final, any beneficiary of such award or the district director may apply for the enforcement of the order to the Federal district court for the judicial district in which the injury occurred (or to the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia if the injury occurred in the District). If the court determines that the order was made and served in accordance with law, and that such operator or other employer or its officers or agents have failed to comply therewith, the court shall enforce obedience to the order by writ of injunction or by other proper process, mandatory or otherwise, to enjoin upon such operator or other employer and its officers or agents compliance with the order.
§ 725.605
Defaults.
(a) Except as is otherwise provided in this part, no suspension, termination or other failure to pay benefits awarded to a claimant is permitted. If an employer found liable for the payment of such benefits fails to make such payments within 30 days after any date on which such benefits are due and payable, the person to whom such benefits are payable may, within one year after such default, make application to the district director for a supplementary order declaring the amount of the default.
(b) If after investigation, notice and hearing as provided in subparts E and F of this part, a default is found, the district director or the administrative law judge, if a hearing is requested, shall issue a supplementary order declaring the amount of the default, if any. In cases where a lump-sum award has been made, if the payment in default is an installment, the district director or administrative law judge, may, in his or her discretion, declare the whole of the award as the amount in default. The applicant may file a certified copy of such supplementary order with the clerk of the Federal district court for the judicial district in which the operator has its principal place of business or maintains an office or for the judicial district in which the injury occurred. In case such principal place of business or office is in the District of Columbia, a copy of such supplementary order may be filed with the clerk of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. Such supplementary order shall be final and the court shall, upon the filing of the copy,
enter judgment for the amount declared in default by the supplementary order if such supplementary order is in accordance with law. Review of the judgment may be had as in civil suits for damages at common law. Final proceedings to execute the judgment may be had by writ of execution in the form used by the court in suits at common law in actions of assumpsit. No fee shall be required for filing the supplementary order nor for entry of judgment thereon, and the applicant shall not be liable for costs in a proceeding for review of the judgment unless the court shall otherwise direct. The court shall modify such judgment to conform to any later benefits order upon presentation of a certified copy thereof to the court.
(c) In cases where judgment cannot be satisfied by reason of the employer's insolvency or other circumstances precluding payment, the district director shall make payment from the fund, and in addition, provide any necessary medical, surgical, and other treatment required by subpart J of this part. A defaulting employer shall be liable to the fund for payment of the amounts paid by the fund under this section; and for the purpose of enforcing this liability, the fund shall be subrogated to all the rights of the person receiving such payments or benefits.
§ 725.606
Security for the payment of benefits.
(a) Following the issuance of an effective order by a district director (see § 725.418), administrative law judge (see § 725.479), Benefits Review Board, or court that requires the payment of benefits by an operator that has failed to secure the payment of benefits in accordance with section 423 of the Act and § 726.4 of this subchapter, or by a coal mine construction or transportation employer, the Director may request that the operator secure the payment of all benefits ultimately payable on the claim. Such operator or other employer shall thereafter immediately secure the payment of benefits in accordance with the provisions of this section, and provide proof of such security to the Director. Such security may take the form of an indemnity bond, a deposit of cash or negotiable securities in compliance with §§ 726.106(c) and 726.107 of this subchapter, or any other form acceptable to the Director.
(b) The amount of security initially required by this section shall be determined as follows:
(1) In a case involving an operator subject to section 423 of the Act and § 726.4 of this subchapter, the amount of the security shall not be less than $175,000, and may be a higher amount as determined by the Director, taking into account the life expectancies of the claimant and any dependents using the most recent life expectancy tables published by the Social Security Administration; or
(2) In a case involving a coal mine construction or transportation employer, the amount of the security shall be determined by the Director, taking into account the life expectancies of the claimant and any dependents using the most recent life expectancy tables published by the Social Security Administration.
(c) If the operator or other employer fails to provide proof of such security to the Director within 30 days of its receipt of the Director's request to secure the payment of benefits issued under paragraph (a) of this section, the appropriate adjudication officer shall issue an order requiring the operator or other employer to make a deposit of negotiable securities with a Federal Reserve Bank in the amount required by paragraph (b). Such securities shall comply with the requirements of §§ 726.106(c) and 726.107 of this subchapter. In a case in which the effective order was issued by a district director, the district director shall be considered the appropriate adjudication officer. In any other case, the administrative law judge who issued the most recent decision in the case, or such other administrative law judge as the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall designate, shall be considered the appropriate adjudication officer, and shall issue an order under this paragraph on motion of the Director. The administrative law judge shall have jurisdiction to issue an order under this paragraph notwithstanding the pendency of an appeal of the award of benefits with the Benefits Review Board or court.
(d) An order issued under this section shall be considered effective when issued. Disputes regarding such orders shall be resolved in accordance with subpart F of this part.
(e) Notwithstanding any further review of the order in accordance with subpart F of this part, if an operator or other employer subject to an order issued under this section fails to comply with such order, the appropriate adjudication officer shall certify such non-compliance to the appropriate United States district court in accordance with § 725.351(c).
(f) Security posted in accordance with this section may be used to make payment of benefits that become due with respect to the claim in accordance with § 725.502. In the event that either the order awarding compensation or the order issued under this section is vacated or reversed, the operator or other employer may apply to the appropriate adjudication officer for an order authorizing the return of any amounts deposited with a Federal Reserve Bank and not yet disbursed, and such application shall be granted. If at any time the Director determines that additional security is required beyond that initially required by paragraph (b) of this section, he may request the operator or other employer to increase the amount. Such request shall be treated as if it were issued under paragraph (a) of this section.
(g) If a coal mine construction or transportation employer fails to comply with an order issued under paragraph (c), and such employer is a corporation, the provisions of § 725.609 shall be applicable to the president, secretary, and treasurer of such employer.
§ 725.607
Payments of additional compensation.
(a) If any benefits payable under the terms of an award by a district director (§ 725.419(d)), a decision and order filed and served by an administrative law judge (§ 725.478), or a decision filed by the Board or a U.S. court of appeals, are not paid by an operator or other employer ordered to make such payments within 10 days after such payments become due, there will be added to such unpaid benefits an amount equal to 20 percent thereof, which must be paid to the claimant at the same time as, but in addition to, such benefits, unless review of the order making such award is sought as provided in section 21 of the LHWCA and an order staying payments has been issued.
(b) If, on account of an operator's or other employer's failure to pay benefits as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, benefit payments are made by the fund, the eligible claimant will nevertheless be entitled to receive such additional compensation to which he or she may be eligible under paragraph (a), with respect to all amounts paid by the fund on behalf of such operator or other employer.
(c) The fund may not be held liable for payments of additional compensation under any circumstances.
[81 FR 24482, Apr. 26, 2016]
§ 725.608
Interest.
(a)(1) In any case in which an operator fails to pay benefits that are due (§ 725.502), the beneficiary shall also be entitled to simple annual interest, computed from the date on which the benefits were due. The interest shall be computed through the date on which the operator paid the benefits, except that the beneficiary shall not be entitled to interest for any period following the date on which the beneficiary received payment of any benefits from the fund pursuant to § 725.522.
(2) In any case in which an operator is liable for the payment of retroactive benefits, the beneficiary shall also be entitled to simple annual interest on such benefits, computed from 30 days after the date of the first determination that such an award should be made. The first determination that such an award should be made may be a district director's initial determination of entitlement, an award made by an administrative law judge or a decision by the Board or a court, whichever is the first such determination of entitlement made upon the claim.
(3) In any case in which an operator is liable for the payment of additional compensation (§ 725.607), the beneficiary shall also be entitled to simple annual interest computed from the date upon which the beneficiary's right to additional compensation first arose.
(4) In any case in which an operator is liable for the payment of medical benefits, the beneficiary or medical provider to whom such benefits are owed shall also be entitled to simple annual interest, computed from the date upon which the services were rendered, or from 30 days after the date of the first determination that the miner is generally entitled to medical benefits, whichever is later. The first determination that the miner is generally entitled to medical benefits may be a district director's initial determination of entitlement, an award made by an administrative law judge or a decision by the Board or a court, whichever is the first such determination of general entitlement made upon the claim. The interest shall be computed through the date on which the operator paid the benefits, except that the beneficiary or medical provider shall not be entitled to interest for any period following the date on which the beneficiary or medical provider received payment of any benefits from the fund pursuant to § 725.522 or subpart I of this part.
(b) If an operator or other employer fails or refuses to pay any or all benefits due pursuant to an award of benefits or an initial determination of eligibility made by the district director and the fund undertakes such payments, such operator or other employer shall be liable to the fund for simple annual interest on all payments made by the fund for which such operator is determined liable, computed from the first date on which such benefits are paid by the fund, in addition to such operator's liability to the fund, as is otherwise provided in this part. Interest payments owed pursuant to this paragraph shall be paid directly to the fund.
(c) In any case in which an operator is liable for the payment of an attorney's fee pursuant to § 725.367, and the attorney's fee is payable because the award of benefits has become final, the attorney shall also be entitled to simple annual interest, computed from the date on which the attorney's fee was awarded. The interest shall be computed through the date on which the operator paid the attorney's fee.
(d) The rates of interest applicable to paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall be computed as follows:
(1) For all amounts outstanding prior to January 1, 1982, the rate shall be 6% simple annual interest;
(2) For all amounts outstanding for any period during calendar year 1982, the rate shall be 15% simple annual interest; and
(3) For all amounts outstanding during any period after calendar year 1982, the rate shall be simple annual interest at the rate established by section 6621 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C.) which is in effect for such period.
(e) The fund shall not be liable for the payment of interest under any circumstances, other than the payment of interest on advances from the United States Treasury as provided by section 9501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C.).
§ 725.609
Enforcement against other persons.
In any case in which an award of benefits creates obligations on the part of an operator or insurer that may be enforced under the provisions of this subpart, such obligations may also be enforced, in the discretion of the Secretary or district director, as follows:
(a) In a case in which the operator is a sole proprietorship or partnership, against any person who owned, or was a partner in, such operator during any period commencing on or after the date on which the miner was last employed by the operator;
(b) In a case in which the operator is a corporation that failed to secure its liability for benefits in accordance with section 423 of the Act and § 726.4, and the operator has not secured its liability for the claim in accordance with § 725.606, against any person who served as the president, secretary, or treasurer of such corporation during any period commencing on or after the date on which the miner was last employed by the operator;
(c) In a case in which the operator is no longer capable of assuming its liability for the payment of benefits (§ 725.494(e)), against any operator which became a successor operator with respect to the liable operator (§ 725.492) after the date on which the claim was filed, beginning with the most recent such successor operator;
(d) In a case in which the operator is no longer capable of assuming its liability for the payment of benefits (§ 725.494(e)), and such operator was a subsidiary of a parent company or a product of a joint venture, or was substantially owned or controlled by another business entity, against such parent entity, any member of such joint venture, or such controlling business entity; or
(e) Against any other person who has assumed or succeeded to the obligations of the operator or insurer by operation of any state or federal law, or by any other means.
§ 725.620
Failure to secure benefits; other penalties.
(a) If an operator fails to discharge its insurance obligations under the Act, the provisions of subpart D of part 726 of this subchapter shall apply.
(b) Any employer who knowingly transfers, sells, encumbers, assigns, or in any manner disposes of, conceals, secrets, or destroys any property belonging to such employer, after one of its employees has been injured within the purview of the Act, and with intent to avoid the payment of benefits under the Act to such miner or his or her dependents, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000, or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by both. In any case where such employer is a corporation, the president, secretary, and treasurer thereof shall be also severally liable for such penalty or imprisonment as well as jointly liable with such corporation for such fine.
(c) No agreement by a miner to pay any portion of a premium paid to a carrier by such miner's employer or to contribute to a benefit fund or department maintained by such employer for the purpose of providing benefits or medical services and supplies as required by this part shall be valid; and any employer who makes a deduction for such purpose from the pay of a miner entitled to benefits under the Act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.
(d) No agreement by a miner to waive his or her right to benefits under the Act and the provisions of this part shall be valid.
(e) This section shall not affect any other liability of the employer under this part.
§ 725.621
Reports.
(a) Upon making the first payment of benefits and upon suspension, reduction, or increase of payments, the operator or other employer responsible for making payments shall immediately notify the district director of the action taken, in accordance with a form prescribed by the Office.
(b) Within 16 days after final payment of benefits has been made by an employer, such employer shall so notify the district director, in accordance with a form prescribed by the Office, stating that such final payment, has been made, the total amount of benefits paid, the name of the beneficiary, and such other information as the Office deems pertinent.
(c) The Director may from time to time prescribe such additional reports to be made by operators, other employers, or carriers as the Director may consider necessary for the efficient administration of the Act.
(d) Any employer who fails or refuses to file any report required of such employer under this section, and has penalties assessed for such failure or refusal after January 15, 2025, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $1,826 for each failure or refusal, which penalty shall be determined in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart D of part 726 of this subchapter, as appropriate.
(e) No request for information or response to such request shall be considered a report for purposes of this section or the Act, unless it is so designated by the Director or by this section.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 43449, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 5380, Jan. 18, 2017; 83 FR 11, Jan. 2, 2018; 84 FR 217, Jan. 23, 2019; 85 FR 2297, Jan. 15, 2020; 86 FR 2968, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 2333, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2215, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1814, Jan. 11, 2024; 90 FR 1859, Jan. 10, 2025]

# Subpart J—Medical Benefits and Vocational Rehabilitation

# Source:
83 FR 27695, June 14, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 725.701
What medical benefits are available?
(a) A miner who is determined to be eligible for benefits under this part or part 727 of this subchapter (
see
§ 725.4(d)) is entitled to medical benefits as set forth in this subpart as of the date of his or her claim, but in no event before January 1, 1974. Medical benefits may not be provided to the survivor or dependent of a miner under this part.
(b) A responsible operator, or where there is none, the fund, must furnish a miner entitled to benefits under this part with such medical services and treatments (including professional medical services and medical equipment, prescription drugs, outpatient medical services, inpatient medical services, and any other medical service, treatment or supply) for such periods as the nature of the miner's pneumoconiosis and disability requires.
(c) The medical benefits referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section include palliative measures useful only to prevent pain or discomfort associated with the miner's pneumoconiosis or attendant disability.
(d) An operator or the fund must also pay the miner's reasonable cost of travel necessary for medical treatment (to be determined in accordance with prevailing United States government mileage rates) and the reasonable documented cost to the miner or medical provider incurred in communicating with the operator, carrier, or OWCP on matters connected with medical benefits.
(e)(1) If a miner receives a medical service or treatment, as described in this section, for any pulmonary disorder, there will be a rebuttable presumption that the disorder is caused or aggravated by the miner's pneumoconiosis.
(2) The party liable for the payment of benefits may rebut the presumption by producing credible evidence that the medical service or treatment provided was for a pulmonary disorder apart from those previously associated with the miner's disability, or was beyond that necessary to effectively treat a covered disorder, or was not for a pulmonary disorder at all.
(3) An operator or the fund, however, cannot rely on evidence that the miner does not have pneumoconiosis or is not totally disabled by pneumoconiosis arising out of coal mine employment to defeat a request for coverage of any medical service or treatment under this subpart.
(4) In determining whether the treatment is compensable, the opinion of the miner's treating physician may be entitled to controlling weight pursuant to § 718.104(d) of this subchapter.
(5) A finding that a medical service or treatment is not covered under this subpart will not otherwise affect the miner's entitlement to benefits.
§ 725.702
Who is considered a physician?
The term “physician” includes only doctors of medicine (MD) and doctors of osteopathy (DO) within the scope of their practices as defined by State law. No treatment or medical services performed by any other practitioner of the healing arts is authorized by this part, unless such treatment or service is authorized and supervised both by a physician as defined in this section and by OWCP.
§ 725.703
How is treatment authorized?
(a) Upon notification to a miner of such miner's entitlement to benefits, OWCP must provide the miner with a list of authorized treating physicians and medical facilities in the area of the miner's residence. The miner may select a physician from this list or may select another physician with approval of OWCP. Where emergency services are necessary and appropriate, authorization by OWCP is not required.
(b) OWCP may, on its own initiative, or at the request of a responsible operator, order a change of physicians or facilities, but only where it has been determined that the change is desirable or necessary in the best interest of the miner. The miner may change physicians or facilities subject to the approval of OWCP.
(c) If adequate treatment cannot be obtained in the area of the claimant's residence, OWCP may authorize the use of physicians or medical facilities outside such area as well as reimbursement for travel expenses and overnight accommodations.
§ 725.704
How are arrangements for medical care made?
(a)
Operator liability.
If an operator has been determined liable for the payment of benefits to a miner, OWCP will notify the operator or its insurance carrier of the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the authorized providers of medical benefits chosen by an entitled miner, and require the operator or carrier to:
(1) Notify the miner and the providers chosen that the operator or carrier will be responsible for the cost of medical services provided to the miner on account of the miner's total disability due to pneumoconiosis;
(2) Designate a person or persons with decision-making authority with whom OWCP, the miner and authorized providers may communicate on matters involving medical benefits provided under this subpart and notify OWCP, the miner and providers of this designation;
(3) Make arrangements for the direct reimbursement of providers for their services.
(b)
Fund liability.
If there is no operator found liable for the payment of benefits, OWCP will make necessary arrangements to provide medical care to the miner, notify the miner and providers selected of the liability of the fund, designate a person or persons with whom the miner or provider may communicate on matters relating to medical care, and make arrangements for the direct reimbursement of the medical provider.
§ 725.705
Is prior authorization for medical services required?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, medical services from an authorized provider which are payable under § 725.701 do not require prior approval of OWCP or the responsible operator.
(b) Except where emergency treatment is required, prior approval of OWCP or the responsible operator must be obtained before any hospitalization or surgery, or before ordering medical equipment where the purchase price exceeds $300. A request for approval of non-emergency hospitalization or surgery must be acted upon expeditiously, and approval or disapproval will be given by telephone if a written response cannot be given within 7 days following the request. No employee of the Department of Labor, other than a district director or the Chief, Medical Audit and Operations Section, DCMWC, is authorized to approve a request for hospitalization or surgery by telephone.
§ 725.706
What reports must a medical provider give to OWCP?
(a) Within 30 days following the first medical or surgical treatment provided under § 725.701, the provider must furnish to OWCP and the responsible operator or its insurance carrier, if any, a report of such treatment.
(b) In order to permit continuing supervision of the medical care provided to the miner with respect to the necessity, character and sufficiency of any medical care furnished or to be furnished, the provider, operator or carrier must submit such reports in addition to those required by paragraph (a) of this section as OWCP may from time to time require. Within the discretion of OWCP, payment may be refused to any medical provider who fails to submit any report required by this section.
§ 725.707
At what rate will fees for medical services and treatments be paid?
(a) All fees charged by providers for any medical service, treatment, drug or equipment authorized under this subpart will be paid at no more than the rate prevailing for the service, treatment, drug or equipment in the community in which the provider is located.
(b) When medical benefits are paid by the fund at OWCP's direction, either on an interim basis or because there is no liable operator, the prevailing community rate for various types of service will be determined as provided in §§ 725.708-725.711.
(c) The provisions of §§ 725.708-725.711 do not apply to charges for medical services or treatments furnished by medical facilities of the U.S. Public Health Service or the Departments of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Veterans Affairs.
(d) If the provisions of §§ 725.708-725.711 cannot be used to determine the prevailing community rate for a particular service or treatment or for a particular provider, OWCP may determine the prevailing community rate by reliance on other federal or state payment formulas or on other evidence, as appropriate.
(e) OWCP must review the payment formulas described in §§ 725.708-725.711 at least once a year, and may adjust, revise or replace any payment formula or its components when necessary or appropriate to ensure miners' access to care or for other reasons.
(f) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, the provisions of §§ 725.707-725.711 apply to all medical services and treatments rendered after August 31, 2018.
§ 725.708
How are payments for professional medical services and medical equipment determined?
(a)(1) OWCP pays for professional medical services based on a fee schedule derived from the schedule maintained by the Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services (CMS) for the payment of such services under the Medicare program (42 CFR part 414). The schedule OWCP utilizes consists of: An assignment of Relative Value Units (RVU) to procedures identified by Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System/Current Procedural Terminology (HCPCS/CPT) code, which represents the work (relative time and intensity of the service), the practice expense and the malpractice expense, as compared to other procedures of the same general class; an assignment of Geographic Practice Cost Index (GPCI) values, which represent the relative work, practice expense and malpractice expense relative to other localities throughout the country; and a monetary value assignment (conversion factor) for one unit of value for each coded service.
(2) The maximum payment for professional medical services identified by a HCPCS/CPT code is calculated by multiplying the RVU values for the service by the GPCI values for such service in that area and multiplying the sum of these values by the conversion factor to arrive at a dollar amount assigned to one unit in that category of service.
(3) OWCP utilizes the RVUs published, and updated or revised from time to time, by CMS for all services for which CMS has made assignments. Where there are no RVUs assigned, OWCP may develop and assign any RVUs that OWCP considers appropriate. OWCP utilizes the GPCI for the locality as defined by CMS and as updated or revised by CMS from time to time. OWCP will devise conversion factors for professional medical services using OWCP's processing experience and internal data.
(b) Where a professional medical service is not covered by the fee schedule described in paragraph (a) of this section, OWCP may pay for the service based on other fee schedules or pricing formulas utilized by OWCP for professional medical services.
(c) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply to professional medical services rendered after April 26, 2020.
(d) OWCP pays for medical equipment identified by a HCPCS/CPT code based on fee schedules or other pricing formulas utilized by OWCP for such equipment.
[83 FR 27695, June 14, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 64198, Nov. 21, 2019]
§ 725.709
How are payments for prescription drugs determined?
(a)(1) OWCP pays for drugs prescribed by physicians by multiplying a percentage of the average wholesale price, or other baseline price as specified by OWCP, of the medication by the quantity or amount provided, plus a dispensing fee.
(2) All prescription medications identified by National Drug Code are assigned an average wholesale price representing the product's nationally recognized wholesale price as determined by surveys of manufacturers and wholesalers, or another baseline price designated by OWCP.
(3) OWCP may establish the dispensing fee.
(b) If the pricing formula described in paragraph (a) of this section is inapplicable, OWCP may make payment based on other pricing formulas utilized by OWCP for prescription medications.
(c) OWCP may, in its discretion, contract for or require the use of specific providers for certain medications. OWCP also may require the use of generic equivalents of prescribed medications where they are available.
§ 725.710
How are payments for outpatient medical services determined?
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, OWCP pays for outpatient medical services according to Ambulatory Payment Classifications (APCs) derived from the Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OPPS) devised by the Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services (CMS) for the Medicare program (42 CFR part 419).
(2) For outpatient medical services paid under the OPPS, such services are assigned according to the APC prescribed by CMS for that service. Each payment is derived by multiplying the prospectively established scaled relative weight for the service's clinical APC by a conversion factor to arrive at a national unadjusted payment rate for the APC. The labor portion of the national unadjusted payment rate is further adjusted by the hospital wage index for the area where payment is being made. Additional adjustments are also made as required or needed.
(b) If a compensable service cannot be assigned or paid at the prevailing community rate under the OPPS or occurs at a facility excluded from the Medicare OPPS, OWCP may pay for the service based on fee schedules or other pricing formulas utilized by OWCP for outpatient services.
(c) This section does not apply to services provided by ambulatory surgical centers.
(d) This section applies to outpatient medical services rendered after April 26, 2020.
[83 FR 27695, June 14, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 64198, Nov. 21, 2019]
§ 725.711
How are payments for inpatient medical services determined?
(a)(1) OWCP pays for inpatient medical services according to predetermined rates derived from the Medicare Inpatient Prospective Payment System (IPPS) used by the Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services (CMS) for the Medicare program (42 CFR part 412).
(2) Inpatient hospital discharges are classified into diagnosis-related groups (DRGs). Each DRG groups together clinically similar conditions that require comparable amounts of inpatient resources. For each DRG, an appropriate weighting factor is assigned that reflects the estimated relative cost of hospital resources used with respect to discharges classified within that group compared to discharges classified within other groups.
(3) For each hospital discharge classified within a DRG, a payment amount for that discharge is determined by using the national weighting factor determined for that DRG, national standardized adjustments, and other factors which may vary by hospital, such as an adjustment for area wage levels. OWCP may also use other price adjustment factors as appropriate based on its processing experience and internal data.
(b) If an inpatient service cannot be classified by DRG, occurs at a facility excluded from the Medicare IPPS, or otherwise cannot be paid at the prevailing community rate under the pricing formula described in paragraph (a) of this section, OWCP may pay for the service based on fee schedules or other pricing formulas utilized by OWCP for inpatient services.
§ 725.712
When and how are fees reduced?
(a) A provider's designation of the code used to identify a billed service or treatment will be accepted if the code is consistent with the medical and other evidence, and the provider will be paid no more than the maximum allowable fee for that service or treatment. If the code is not consistent with the medical evidence or where no code is supplied, the bill will be returned to the provider for correction and resubmission or denied.
(b) If the charge submitted for a service or treatment supplied to a miner exceeds the maximum amount determined to be reasonable under this subpart, OWCP must pay the amount allowed by §§ 725.707-725.711 for that service and notify the provider in writing that payment was reduced for that service in accordance with those provisions.
(c) A provider or other party who disagrees with a fee determination may seek review of that determination as provided in this subpart (
see
§ 725.718).
§ 725.713
If a fee is reduced, may a provider bill the claimant for the balance?
Where a provider submits a bill to OWCP and OWCP has reduced the provider's fee, the miner is not responsible for any additional payment for services or treatments covered under this subpart. Thus, a provider whose fee for service is partially paid by OWCP as a result of the application of the provisions of §§ 725.707-725.711 or otherwise in accordance with this subpart may not request reimbursement from the miner for additional amounts.
§ 725.714
How do providers enroll with OWCP for authorizations and billing?
(a) All non-pharmacy providers seeking payment from the fund must enroll with OWCP or its designated bill processing agent to have access to the automated authorization system and to submit medical bills to OWCP.
(b) To enroll, the non-pharmacy provider must complete and submit a Form OWCP-1168 to the appropriate location noted on that form. By completing and submitting this form, providers certify that they satisfy all applicable Federal and State licensure and regulatory requirements that apply to their specific provider or supplier type.
(c) The non-pharmacy provider must maintain documentary evidence indicating that it satisfies those requirements.
(d) The non-pharmacy provider must also notify OWCP immediately if any information provided to OWCP in the enrollment process changes.
(e) All pharmacy providers must obtain a National Council for Prescription Drug Programs number. Upon obtaining such number, they are automatically enrolled in OWCP's pharmacy billing system.
(f) After enrollment, a provider must submit all medical bills to OWCP through its bill processing portal or to the OWCP address specified for such purpose and must include the Provider Number/ID obtained through enrollment, or its National Provider Number (NPI) or any other identifying numbers required by OWCP.
§ 725.715
How do providers submit medical bills?
(a) A provider must itemize charges on Form OWCP-1500 or CMS-1500 (for professional services, equipment or drugs dispensed in the office), Form OWCP-04 or UB-04 (for hospitals), an electronic or paper-based bill that includes required data elements (for pharmacies) or other form as designated by OWCP, and submit the form promptly to OWCP.
(b) The provider must identify each medical service performed using the Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code, the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) code, the National Drug Code (NDC) number, or the Revenue Center Code (RCC), as appropriate to the type of service. OWCP has discretion to determine which of these codes may be utilized in the billing process. OWCP also has the authority to create and supply codes for specific services or treatments. These OWCP-created codes will be issued to providers by OWCP as appropriate and may only be used as authorized by OWCP. A provider may not use an OWCP-created code for other types of medical examinations, services or treatments.
(1) For professional medical services, the provider must list each diagnosed condition in order of priority and furnish the corresponding diagnostic code using the “International Classification of Disease, 10th Edition, Clinical Modification” (ICD-10-CM), or as revised.
(2) For prescription drugs or supplies, the provider must include the NDC assigned to the product, and such other information as OWCP may require.
(3) For outpatient medical services, the provider must use HCPCS codes and other coding schemes in accordance with the Outpatient Prospective Payment System.
(4) For inpatient medical services, the provider must include admission and discharge summaries and an itemized statement of the charges.
(c)(1) By submitting a bill or accepting payment, the provider signifies that the service for which reimbursement is sought was performed as described, necessary, appropriate, and properly billed in accordance with accepted industry standards. For example, accepted industry standards preclude upcoding billed services for extended medical appointments when the miner actually had a brief routine appointment, or charging for the services of a professional when a paraprofessional or aide performed the service; industry standards prohibit unbundling services to charge separately for services that should be billed as a single charge.
(2) The provider agrees to comply with all regulations set forth in this subpart concerning the provision of medical services or treatments and/or the process for seeking reimbursement for medical services and treatments, including the limitation imposed on the amount to be paid.
§ 725.716
How should a miner prepare and submit requests for reimbursement for covered medical expenses and transportation costs?
(a) If a miner has paid bills for a medical service or treatment covered under § 725.701 and seeks reimbursement for those expenses, he or she may submit a request for reimbursement on Form OWCP-915, together with an itemized bill. The reimbursement request must be accompanied by evidence that the provider received payment for the service from the miner and a statement of the amount paid. Acceptable evidence that payment was received includes, but is not limited to, a copy of the miner's canceled check (both front and back) or a copy of the miner's credit card receipt.
(b) OWCP may waive the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if extensive delays in the filing or the adjudication of a claim make it unusually difficult for the miner to obtain the required information.
(c) Reimbursements for covered medical services paid by a miner generally will be no greater than the maximum allowable charge for such service as determined under §§ 725.707-725.711.
(d) A miner will be only partially reimbursed for a covered medical service if the amount he or she paid to a provider for the service exceeds the maximum charge allowable. If this happens, OWCP will advise the miner of the maximum allowable charge for the service in question and of his or her responsibility to ask the provider to refund to the miner, or credit to the miner's account, the amount he or she paid which exceeds the maximum allowable charge.
(e) If the provider does not refund to the miner or credit to his or her account the amount of money paid in excess of the charge allowed by OWCP, the miner should submit documentation to OWCP of the attempt to obtain such refund or credit. OWCP may make reasonable reimbursement to the miner after reviewing the facts and circumstances of the case.
(f) If a miner has paid transportation costs or other incidental expenses related to covered medical services under this part, the miner may submit a request for reimbursement on Form OWCP-957 or OWCP-915, together with proof of payment.
§ 725.717
What are the time limitations for requesting payment or reimbursement for covered medical services or treatments?
OWCP will pay providers and reimburse miners promptly for all bills received on an approved form and in a timely manner. However, absent good cause, no bill will be paid for expenses incurred if the bill is submitted more than one year beyond the end of the calendar year in which the expense was incurred or the service or supply was provided, or more than one year beyond the end of the calendar year in which the miner's eligibility for benefits is finally adjudicated, whichever is
later. A provider may not request reimbursement from a miner for a bill denied by OWCP due to late submission of the bill by the provider.
§ 725.718
How are disputes concerning medical benefits resolved?
(a) If a dispute develops concerning medical services or treatments or their payment under this part, OWCP must attempt to informally resolve the dispute. OWCP may, on its own initiative or at the request of the responsible operator or its insurance carrier, order the claimant to submit to an examination by a physician selected by OWCP.
(b) If a dispute cannot be resolved informally, OWCP will refer the case to the Office of Administrative Law Judges for a hearing in accordance with this part. Any such hearing concerning authorization of medical services or treatments must be scheduled at the earliest possible time and must take precedence over all other hearing requests except for other requests under this section and as provided by § 727.405 of this subchapter (
see
§ 725.4(d)). During the pendency of such adjudication, OWCP may order the payment of medical benefits prior to final adjudication under the same conditions applicable to benefits awarded under § 725.522.
(c) In the development or adjudication of a dispute over medical benefits, the adjudication officer is authorized to take whatever action may be necessary to protect the health of a totally disabled miner.
(d) Any interested medical provider may, if appropriate, be made a party to a dispute under this subpart.
§ 725.719
What is the objective of vocational rehabilitation?
The objective of vocational rehabilitation is the return of a miner who is totally disabled by pneumoconiosis to gainful employment commensurate with such miner's physical impairment. This objective may be achieved through a program of re-evaluation and redirection of the miner's abilities, or retraining in another occupation, and selective job placement assistance.
§ 725.720
How does a miner request vocational rehabilitation assistance?
Each miner who has been determined entitled to receive benefits under part C of title IV of the Act must be informed by OWCP of the availability and advisability of vocational rehabilitation services. If such miner chooses to avail himself or herself of vocational rehabilitation, his or her request will be processed and referred by OWCP vocational rehabilitation advisors pursuant to the provisions of §§ 702.501 through 702.508 of this chapter as is appropriate.
Pt. 726

# PART 726—BLACK LUNG BENEFITS; REQUIREMENTS FOR COAL MINE OPERATOR'S INSURANCE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
726.1
Statutory insurance requirements for coal mine operators.
726.2
Purpose and scope of this part.
726.3
Relationship of this part to other parts in this subchapter.
726.4
Who must obtain insurance coverage.
726.5
Effective date of insurance coverage.
726.6
The Office of Workers' Compensation Programs.
726.7
Forms, submission of information.
726.8
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Authorization of Self-Insurers
726.101
Who may be authorized to self-insure.
726.102
Application for authority to become a self-insurer; how filed; information to be submitted.
726.103
Application for authority to self-insure; effect of regulations contained in this part.
726.104
Action by OWCP upon application of operator.
726.105
Fixing the amount of security.
726.106
Type of security.
726.107
How negotiable securities are handled.
726.108
Withdrawal of securities.
726.109
Increase in the amount of security.
726.110
Filing of agreement and undertaking.
726.111
Notice of authorization to self-insure.
726.112
Reports required of self-insurer; examination of accounts of self-insurer.
726.113
Disclosure of confidential information.
726.114
Authorization and reauthorization timeframes.
726.115
Revocation of authorization to self-insure.
726.116
Appeal process.

# Subpart C—Insurance Contracts
726.201
Insurance contracts—generally.
726.202
Who may underwrite an operator's liability.
726.203
Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act endorsement.
726.204
Statutory policy provisions.
726.205
Other forms of endorsement and policies.
726.206
Terms of policies.
726.207
Discharge by the carrier of obligations and duties of operator.

# Reports by Carrier
726.208
Report by carrier of issuance of policy or endorsement.
726.209
Report; by whom sent.
726.210
Agreement to be bound by report.
726.211
Name of one employer only shall be given in each report.
726.212
Notice of cancellation.
726.213
Reports by carriers concerning the payment of benefits.

# Subpart D—Civil Money Penalties
726.300
Purpose and scope.
726.301
Definitions.
726.302
Determination of penalty.
726.303
Notification; investigation.
726.304
Notice of initial assessment.
726.305
Contents of notice.
726.306
Finality of administrative assessment.
726.307
Form of notice of contest and request for hearing.
726.308
Service and computation of time.
726.309
Referral to the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
726.310
Appointment of Administrative Law Judge and notification of hearing date.
726.311
Evidence.
726.312
Burdens of proof.
726.313
Decision and Order of Administrative Law Judge.
726.314
Review by the Administrative Review Board.
726.315
Contents.
726.316
Filing and service.
726.317
Discretionary review.
726.318
Decision of the Administrative Review Board.
726.319
Retention of official record.
726.320
Collection and recovery of penalty.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 30 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
902(f), 925, 932, 933, 934, 936; 33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
28 U.S.C. 2461 note (Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (as amended by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015)); Pub. L. 114-74 at sec. 701; Reorganization Plan No. 6 of 1950, 15 FR 3174; Secretary's Order 10-2009, 74 FR 58834.

# Source:
65 FR 80097, Dec. 20, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 726.1
Statutory insurance requirements for coal mine operators.
Section 423 of title IV of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act as amended (hereinafter the Act) requires each coal mine operator who is operating or has operated a coal mine in a State which is not included in the list published by the Secretary (see part 722 of this subchapter) to secure the payment of benefits for which he may be found liable under section 422 of the Act and the provisions of this subchapter by either:
(a) Qualifying as a self-insurer, or
(b) By subscribing to and maintaining in force a commercial insurance contract (including a policy or contract procured from a State agency).
§ 726.2
Purpose and scope of this part.
(a) This part provides rules directing and controlling the circumstances under which a coal mine operator shall fulfill his insurance obligations under the Act.
(b) This Subpart A sets forth the scope and purpose of this part and generally describes the statutory framework within which this part is operative.
(c) Subpart B of this part sets forth the criteria a coal mine operator must meet in order to qualify as a self-insurer.
(d) Subpart C of this part sets forth the rules and regulations of the Secretary governing contracts of insurance entered into by coal mine operators and commercial insurance sources for the payment of black lung benefits under part C of the Act.
(e) Subpart D of this part sets forth the rules governing the imposition of civil money penalties on coal mine operators that fail to secure their liability under the Act.
§ 726.3
Relationship of this part to other parts in this subchapter.
(a) This part 726 implements and effectuates responsibilities for the payment of black lung benefits placed upon coal mine operators by sections 415 and 422 of the Act and the regulations of the Secretary in this subchapter, particularly those set forth in part 725 of this subchapter. All definitions, usages, procedures, and other rules affecting the responsibilities of coal mine operators prescribed in part 725 of this subchapter are hereby made applicable, as appropriate, to this part 726.
(b) If the provisions of this part appear to conflict with any provision of any other part in this subchapter, the apparently conflicting provisions should be read harmoniously to the fullest extent possible. If a harmonious interpretation is not possible, the provisions of this part should be applied to govern the responsibilities and obligations of coal mine operators to secure the payment of black lung benefits as prescribed by the Act. The provisions of this part do not apply to matters falling outside the scope of this part.
§ 726.4
Who must obtain insurance coverage.
(a) Section 423 of part C of title IV of the Act requires each operator of a coal mine or former operator in any State which does meet the requirements prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to section 411 of part C of title IV of the Act to self-insure or obtain a policy or contract of insurance to guarantee the payment of benefits for which such operator may be adjudicated liable under section 422 of the Act. In enacting sections 422 and 423 of the Act Congress has unambiguously expressed its intent that coal mine operators bear the cost of providing the benefits established by part C of title IV of the Act. Section 3 of the Act defines an “operator” as any owner, lessee, or other person who operates, controls, or supervises a coal mine.
(b) Section 422(i) of the Act clearly recognizes that any individual or business entity who is or was a coal mine operator may be found liable for the payment of pneumoconiosis benefits after December 31, 1973. Within this framework it is clear that the Secretary has wide latitude for determining which operator shall be liable for the payment of part C benefits. Comprehensive standards have been promulgated in subpart G of part 725 of this subchapter for the purpose of guiding the Secretary in making such determination. It must be noted that pursuant to these standards any parent or subsidiary corporation, any individual or corporate partner, or partnership, any lessee or lessor of a coal mine, any joint venture or participant in a joint venture, any transferee or transferor of a corporation or other business entity, any former, current, or future operator or any other form of business entity which has had or will have a substantial and reasonably direct interest in the operation of a coal mine may be determined liable for the payment of pneumoconiosis benefits after December 31, 1973. The failure of any such business entity to self-insure or obtain a policy or contract of insurance shall in no way relieve such business entity of its obligation to pay pneumoconiosis benefits in respect of any case in which such business entity's responsibility for such payments has been properly adjudicated. Any business entity described in this section shall take appropriate steps to insure that any liability imposed by part C of the Act on such business entity shall be dischargeable.
§ 726.5
Effective date of insurance coverage.
Pursuant to section 422(c) of part C of title IV of the Act, no coal mine operator shall be responsible for the payment of any benefits whatsoever for any period prior to January 1, 1974. However, coal mine operators shall be liable as of January 1, 1974, for the payment of benefits in respect of claims which were filed under section 415 of part B of title IV of the Act after July 1, 1973. Section 415(a)(3) requires the Secretary to notify any operator who may be liable for the payment of benefits under part C of title IV beginning on January 1, 1974, of the pendency of a section 415 claim. Section 415(a)(5) declares that any operator who has been notified of the pendency of a section 415 claim shall be bound by the determination of the Secretary as to such
operator's liability and as to the claimant's entitlement to benefits as if the claim were filed under part C of title IV of the Act and section 422 thereof had been applicable to such operator. Therefore, even though no benefit payments shall be required of an operator prior to January 1, 1974, the liability for these payments may be finally adjudicated at any time after July 1, 1973. Neither the failure of an operator to exercise his right to participate in the adjudication of such a claim nor the failure of an operator to obtain insurance coverage in respect of claims filed after June 30, 1973, but before January 1, 1974, shall excuse such operator from his liability for the payment of benefits to such claimants under part C of title IV of the Act.
§ 726.6
The Office of Workers' Compensation Programs.
The Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (hereinafter the Office or OWCP) is that division of the U.S. Department of Labor which has been empowered by the Secretary of Labor to carry out his or her functions under section 415 and part C of title IV of the Act. As noted throughout this part 726 the Office shall perform a number of functions with respect to the regulation of both the self-insurance and commercial insurance programs. All correspondence with or submissions to the Office should be addressed as follows: Division of Coal Mine Workers' Compensation, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210.
[77 FR 37286, June 21, 2012]
§ 726.7
Forms, submission of information.
Any information required by this part 726 to be submitted to the Office of Workmen's Compensation Programs or any other office or official of the Department of Labor, shall be submitted on such forms or in such manner as the Secretary deems appropriate and has authorized from time to time for such purposes.
§ 726.8
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions provided in part 725 of this subchapter, the following definitions apply to this part:
(a)
Director
means the Director, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, and includes any official of the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs authorized by the Director to perform any of the functions of the Director under this part and part 725 of this subchapter.
(b)
Person
includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association, business trust, legal representative, or organized group of persons.
(c)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor or such other official as the Secretary shall designate to carry out any responsibility under this part.
(d) The terms
employ
and
employment
shall be construed as broadly as possible, and shall include any relationship under which an operator retains the right to direct, control, or supervise the work performed by a miner, or any other relationship under which an operator derives a benefit from the work performed by a miner. Any individuals who participate with one or more persons in the mining of coal, such as owners, proprietors, partners, and joint venturers, whether they are compensated by wages, salaries, piece rates, shares, profits, or by any other means, shall be deemed employees. It is the specific intention of this paragraph to disregard any financial arrangement or business entity devised by the actual owners or operators of a coal mine or coal mine-related enterprise to avoid the payment of benefits to miners who, based upon the economic reality of their relationship to this enterprise, are, in fact, employees of the enterprise.

# Subpart B—Authorization of Self-Insurers

# Source:
89 FR 100318, Dec. 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 726.101
Who may be authorized to self-insure.
(a) Pursuant to section 423 of part C of title IV of the Act, authorization to self-insure against liability incurred by coal mine operators on account of the total disability or death of miners due to pneumoconiosis may be granted or denied in the discretion of the Secretary. The provisions of this subpart
describe the minimum requirements established by the Secretary for determining whether any particular coal mine operator may be authorized as a self-insurer.
(b) The minimum requirements which must be met by any operator seeking authorization to self-insure are as follows:
(1) The operator must demonstrate the administrative capacity to fully service such claims as may be filed against it; and,
(2) Such operator must obtain security, in a form approved by OWCP (see § 726.104) and in an amount to be determined by OWCP (see § 726.105).
(c) No application will be approved until OWCP receives security in the amount and in the form determined by OWCP. If the applicant is seeking authorization to self-insure for the first time, it is not authorized to self-insure while its application is under review.
(d) No operator whose application for authorization to self-insure or to renew authorization to self-insure is denied may reapply until 12 months after a final decision denying such application.
§ 726.102
Application for authority to become a self-insurer; how filed; information to be submitted.
(a)
How filed.
An application for authorization to self-insure or to renew authorization to self-insure must be submitted electronically in the manner prescribed by OWCP. Such application must be signed by the applicant and if the applicant is not an individual, by the principal officer of the applicant duly authorized to make such application.
(b)
Information to be submitted.
Each application for authority to self-insure or to renew authorization to self-insure must contain the following:
(1) Any application forms required by OWCP.
(2) An actuarial report using OWCP-mandated actuarial assumptions, unless the applicant has submitted such a report within the preceding 3 years. The operator may submit an additional actuarial report using alternate assumptions with an explanation of why it believes the alternative assumptions are appropriate.
(3) A statement of the employer's payroll report for each of the preceding 3 years.
(4) A statement of the average number of employees engaged in employment within the purview of the Act for each of the preceding 3 years.
(5) A list of the mine or mines to be covered by any particular self-insurance agreement. Each such mine or mines listed must be described by name and reference must be made to the Mine Identification Number assigned such mine by the Mine Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor.
(6) A statement demonstrating the applicant's administrative capacity to provide or procure adequate servicing for a claim including both medical and dollar claims.
(7) In addition to the information required in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section, OWCP may in its discretion, require the applicant to submit such further information or such evidence as OWCP may deem necessary.
(c)
Who may file.
An application for authorization to self-insure (including an application to renew authority to self-insure) may be filed by any parent or subsidiary corporation, partner or partnership, party to a joint venture or joint venture, individual, or other business entity which may be determined liable for the payment of black lung benefits under part C of title IV of the Act, regardless of whether such applicant is directly engaged in the business of mining coal. However, in each case for which authorization to self-insure is granted, the agreement and undertaking filed pursuant to § 726.110 and the security deposit must be respectively filed by and deposited in the name of the applicant only.
§ 726.103
Application for authority to self-insure; effect of regulations contained in this part.
As appropriate, each of the regulations, interpretations, and requirements contained in this part, including those described in subpart C of this part, are binding upon each applicant under this subpart, and the applicant's consent to be bound by all requirements of the regulations in this part
are deemed to be included in and a part of the application, as fully as though written therein.
§ 726.104
Action by OWCP upon application of operator.
(a) Within 30 days after determining that an applicant's application for authorization to self-insure or to renew authorization to self-insure is complete, OWCP will review and consider all relevant information submitted in the application and issue a written determination either denying the application or determining the amount of security which must be given by the applicant to guarantee the payment of benefits and the discharge of all other obligations which may be required of such applicant under the Act. OWCP may extend the 30-day deadline if it determines that additional evidence is needed or that the applicant's evidence is not in compliance with OWCP's requirements in this subpart.
(b) The applicant will thereafter be notified that they may give security in the amount fixed by OWCP (see § 726.105):
(1) In the form of an indemnity bond with sureties satisfactory to OWCP;
(2) By a deposit of negotiable securities with a Federal Reserve Bank in compliance with §§ 726.106(c) and 726.107;
(3) In the form of a letter of credit issued by a financial institution satisfactory to OWCP (except that a letter of credit is not sufficient by itself to satisfy a self- insurer's obligations under this part); or
(4) In the form of a trust pursuant to section 501(c)(21) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(21)) established prior to December 12, 2024. Operators using such trusts must submit quarterly financial statements to OWCP documenting the value of the trust every ninety days, beginning with ninety days from the date on which OWCP's authorization or reauthorization of the operator's self-insurance becomes effective under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(c) Operators that are required to submit an initial or increased security deposit may do so in quarterly increments over the course of one year. Such operators must deposit at least 25 percent of the newly required security amount within thirty days of OWCP issuing the notification provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, followed by at least 50 percent of their required security within four months, at least 75 percent within eight months, and 100 percent within one year. If an operator fails to timely submit any one of these security installments, OWCP will revoke its self-insurance authorization and the operator will be subject to the civil penalty provisions in subpart D of this part.
(d) If the applicant is receiving authorization to self-insure for the first time, OWCP will notify the applicant that:
(1) Its authorization to self-insure is contingent upon submitting the required security and completed agreement and undertaking; and
(2) The applicant's authorization to self-insure is effective for 12 months from the date such security (either the full amount or first quarterly installment under paragraph (c) of this section) and completed agreement and undertaking are received by OWCP.
(e) If OWCP renews the applicant's authorization to self-insure, OWCP will notify the applicant that:
(1) If there are no changes in the required security amount, the applicant's authorization to self-insure is granted and effective for 12 months from the date the applicant's completed agreement and undertaking is received by OWCP; or
(2) If changes are needed to the existing security amount, the applicant's authorization to self-insure is not granted until the applicant has submitted the required security (either the full amount or first quarterly installment under paragraph (c) of this section) and signed agreement and undertaking. The applicant's authorization to self-insure will be effective for 12 months from the date such updated security and completed agreement and undertaking are received by OWCP.
(f) Any applicant who cannot meet the security deposit requirements imposed by OWCP in this subpart should proceed to obtain a commercial policy or contract of insurance and submit proof of such coverage within 30 days after OWCP issues notification to the
applicant of its decision. Any applicant for authorization to self-insure whose application has been denied or who believes that the security deposit requirements imposed by OWCP in this subpart are excessive may appeal such determination in the manner set forth in § 726.116.
§ 726.105
Fixing the amount of security.
Any operator approved to self-insure must submit security equal to 100 percent of the actuarially estimated liabilities (all present and future liabilities), as determined by OWCP based on the actuarial report or reports submitted with the operator's application or on file with OWCP, other information submitted with the operator's application, and any other materials or information that OWCP deems relevant.
§ 726.106
Type of security.
(a) OWCP will determine the type or types of security which an applicant must or may procure. An operator may not provide any form of security other than those provided for in § 726.104(b).
(b) In the event the indemnity bond option is selected, the bond must be in such form and contain such provisions as OWCP prescribes:
Provided
that only corporations may act as sureties on such indemnity bonds. In each case in which the surety on any such bond is a surety company, such company must be one approved by the U.S. Treasury Department under the laws of the United States and the applicable rules and regulations governing bonding companies (see Department of Treasury's Circular-570).
(c) If the form of negotiable securities is selected, the operator must deposit the amount fixed by OWCP in any negotiable securities acceptable as security for the deposit of public moneys of the United States under regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury in 31 CFR part 225. The approval, valuation, acceptance, and custody of such securities is hereby committed to the several Federal Reserve Banks and the Treasurer of the United States.
§ 726.107
How negotiable securities are handled.
(a) Deposits of securities provided for by the regulations in this part must be made with any Federal Reserve bank or any branch of a Federal Reserve bank designated by OWCP, or the Treasurer of the United States, and must be held in the name of the Department of Labor.
(b) If the self-insurer defaults on its obligations under the Act, OWCP has the power, in its discretion, to:
(1) Collect the interest as it may become due;
(2) Sell any or all of the securities; and
(3) Apply the collected interest or proceeds from the sale of securities to the payment of any benefits for which the self-insurer may be liable.
(c) If a self-insurer with deposits of securities has neither defaulted nor appealed from a determination made by OWCP under § 726.104, OWCP may allow the self-insurer to collect interest on the security deposit.
§ 726.108
Withdrawal of securities.
(a) Withdrawal of any form of security (indemnity bonds, negotiable securities, and/or letters of credit) is prohibited except upon express written authorization by OWCP.
(b) If a self-insurer wishes to withdraw securities, it must submit a written request, and must submit either an updated actuarial report using OWCP-mandated actuarial assumptions to support why the existing security levels are no longer applicable or replacement securities in the amount and form approved by OWCP. If OWCP approves the operator's request to withdraw and replace its securities, the operator must provide the replacement securities before it withdraws its existing securities.
§ 726.109
Increase in the amount of security.
(a) OWCP may, at its discretion, increase the amount of security a self-insurer is required to post whenever it determines that the amount of security on deposit is insufficient to secure 100 percent of the self-insurer's liability
for payment of benefits and medical expenses under the Act. OWCP will provide a written explanation for the increase.
(b) OWCP will not require an operator to post greater than 100 percent of its estimated liabilities, based on the information prompting the increase in security.
§ 726.110
Filing of agreement and undertaking.
(a) In addition to the requirement that adequate security be procured as set forth in this subpart, the applicant for the authorization to self-insure must, as a condition precedent to receiving such authorization, execute and file with OWCP an agreement and undertaking in a form prescribed and provided by OWCP in which the applicant must agree:
(1) To pay when due, as required by the Act, all benefits payable on account of total disability or death of any of its employee-miners;
(2) To furnish medical, surgical, hospital, and other attendance, treatment, and care as required by the Act;
(3) To provide security in a form approved by OWCP (see § 726.104) and in an amount established by OWCP (see § 726.105); and
(4) To authorize OWCP to sell any negotiable securities so deposited or any part thereof, and to pay from the proceeds thereof such benefits, medical, and other expenses and any accrued penalties imposed by law as OWCP may find to be due and payable.
(b) When an applicant has provided the requisite security, it must submit to OWCP a completed agreement and undertaking, together with satisfactory proof that its obligations and liabilities under the Act have been secured.
(c) Any operator authorized to self-insure must notify OWCP of any changes to its business structure, including the purchase, sale, or lease of any coal mining operations, that could affect the operator's liability for benefits under the Act. The operator must provide such notification to OWCP within 30 days of such change. In all events, however, an operator's liability following a change or sale is governed by 20 CFR 725.490 through 725.497.
(d) OWCP may, at its discretion, require an operator to provide any information that may affect the operator's liability for benefits under the Act.
§ 726.111
Notice of authorization to self-insure.
Upon receipt of a completed agreement and undertaking and satisfactory proof that adequate security has been provided, OWCP will notify an applicant for authorization to self-insure in writing that it is authorized to self-insure to meet the obligations imposed upon such operator by section 415 and part C of title IV of the Act. OWCP will also notify the applicant of the date on which its authorization is effective, the date on which such authorization will expire, and the date by which the applicant must apply to renew such authorization if the applicant intends to continue self-insuring its liabilities under the Act.
§ 726.112
Reports required of self-insurer; examination of accounts of self-insurer.
(a) Each operator who has been authorized to self-insure under this part must submit to OWCP reports containing such information as OWCP may from time to time require or prescribe.
(b) Whenever it deems it to be necessary, OWCP may inspect or examine the books of account, records, and other papers of a self-insurer for the purpose of verifying any financial statement submitted to OWCP by the self-insurer or verifying any information furnished to OWCP in any report required by this section, or any other section of this part, and such self-insurer must permit OWCP or its duly authorized representative to make such an inspection or examination as OWCP may require. In lieu of this requirement OWCP may in its discretion accept an adequate report of a certified public accountant.
(c) Failure to submit or make available any report or information requested by OWCP from an authorized self-insurer pursuant to this section may, in appropriate circumstances, result in a revocation of the authorization to self-insure.
§ 726.113
Disclosure of confidential information.
Any financial information or records, or other information relating to the business of an authorized self-insurer or applicant for the authorization of self-insurance obtained by OWCP is exempt from public disclosure to the extent provided in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) and the applicable regulations of the Department of Labor in 29 CFR part 70.
§ 726.114
Authorization and reauthorization timeframes.
(a) No initial or renewed authorization to self-insure may be granted for a period in excess of 12 months unless OWCP determines that extenuating circumstances exist to allow an extension.
(b) If an applicant is seeking to renew its authority to self-insure, the applicant must file its application no later than 90 days before its existing authorization period ends.
(c) Each operator authorized to self-insure under this part must apply for reauthorization for any period during which it engages in the operation of a coal mine and for additional periods after it ceases operating a coal mine. Upon application by the operator, accompanied by proof that the security it has posted is sufficient to secure all benefits potentially payable to miners formerly employed by the operator, OWCP will issue a certification that the operator is exempt from the coal mine operator insurance requirements of this part based on its prior operation of a coal mine. The civil money penalty provisions of subpart D of this part will be applicable to any operator that fails to apply for reauthorization in accordance with the provisions of this section.
§ 726.115
Revocation of authorization to self-insure.
OWCP may suspend or revoke the authorization of any self-insurer for good cause, including but not limited to:
(a) Failure by a self-insurer to comply with any provision or requirement of law or of the regulations in this part, or with any lawful order or request made by OWCP;
(b) The failure or insolvency of the surety on its indemnity bond, if such bond is used as security, or any other financial institution holding any form of security provided by an operator; or
(c) Impairment of financial responsibility of such self-insurer.
§ 726.116
Appeal process.
(a)
How to appeal.
Any applicant that wishes to appeal DCMWC's determination on an application must submit a written appeal to the Director of OWCP in the form and manner prescribed by OWCP within 30 days of DCMWC issuing such determination. This deadline may not be extended.
(b)
What to submit.
Within 30 days after filing a written appeal, the applicant must submit any briefing on which it intends to rely, including any arguments that DCMWC's initial determination was erroneous. The applicant is not entitled to submit any further evidence at this time; all evidence must be submitted to DCMWC with the initial application. OWCP may, at its discretion, extend this deadline at the applicant's request for up to 30 days upon a showing of good cause. No more than two extensions will be granted.
(c)
Conferences.
(1) The applicant may request an informal conference to present its position. Such request must be made in writing when the applicant submits briefing in support of its appeal.
(2) If the applicant requests a conference, the Director of OWCP will hold one with the applicant's representatives and the Department's Office of the Solicitor.
(3) If the applicant does not request a conference, OWCP may either decide the appeal on the record or, at its discretion, schedule a conference on its own initiative.
(4) The conference will be limited to the issues identified in the applicant's written materials.
(d)
OWCP's review.
OWCP will review the previous determination and issue a final agency decision.
(1) The Director of OWCP will review the initial decision, evidence of record, and arguments submitted on appeal. The applicant may not submit new evidence to the Director of OWCP.
(2) The Director of OWCP will have 60 days from receipt of the appeal to take
up the appeal and issue a final agency decision.
(3) If the Director of OWCP issues a final agency decision denying self- insurance, any existing self-insurance authorization of the applicant will end. The applicant will have 30 days from the issuance of the final agency decision to obtain and submit proof of commercial insurance or begin facing civil penalties for failure to secure benefits.

# Subpart C—Insurance Contracts
§ 726.201
Insurance contracts—generally.
Each operator of a coal mine who has not obtained authorization as a self-insurer shall purchase a policy or enter into a contract with a commercial insurance carrier or State agency. Pursuant to authority contained in sections 422(a) and 423(b) and (c) of part C of title IV of the Act, this subpart describes a number of provisions which are required to be incorporated in a policy or contract of insurance obtained by a coal mine operator for the purpose of meeting the responsibility imposed upon such operator by the Act in respect of the total disability or death of miners due to pneumoconiosis.
§ 726.202
Who may underwrite an operator's liability.
Each coal mine operator who is not authorized to self-insure shall insure and keep insured the payment of benefits as required by the Act with any stock company or mutual company or association, or with any other person, or fund, including any State fund while such company, association, person, or fund is authorized under the law of any State to insure workmen's compensation.
§ 726.203
Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act endorsement.
(a) The following form of endorsement shall be attached and applicable to the standard workmen's compensation and employer's liability policy prepared by the National Council on Compensation Insurance affording coverage under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended:
It is agreed that: (1) With respect to operations in a State designated in item 3 of the declarations, the unqualified term “workmen's compensation law” includes part C of title IV of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, 30 U.S.C. section 931-936, and any laws amendatory thereto, or supplementary thereto, which may be or become effective while this policy is in force, and definition (a) of Insuring Agreement III is amended accordingly; (2) with respect to such insurance as is afforded by this endorsement, (a) the States, if any, named below, shall be deemed to be designated in item 3 of the declaration; (b) Insuring Agreement IV(2) is amended to read “by disease caused or aggravated by exposure of which the last day of the last exposure, in the employment of the insured, to conditions causing the disease occurs during the policy period, or occurred prior to (effective date) and claim based on such disease is first filed against the insured during the policy period.”
(b) The term “effective date” as used in paragraph (a) of this section shall be construed to mean the effective date of the first policy or contract of insurance procured by an operator for purposes of meeting the obligations imposed on such operator by section 423 of part C of title IV of the Act.
(c) The Act contains a number of provisions and imposes a number of requirements on operators which differ in varying degrees from traditional workmen's compensation concepts. To avoid unnecessary administrative delays and expense which might be occasioned by the drafting of an entirely new standard workmen's compensation policy specially tailored to the Act, the Office has determined that the existing standard workmen's compensation policy subject to the endorsement provisions contained in paragraph (a) of this section shall be acceptable for purposes of writing commercial insurance coverage under the Act. However, to avoid undue disputes over the meaning of certain policy provisions and in accordance with the authority contained in section 423(b)(3) of the Act, the Office has determined that the following requirements shall be applicable to all commercial insurance policies obtained by an operator for the purpose of insuring any liability incurred pursuant to the Act:
(1)
Operator liability.
(i) Section 415 and part C of title IV of the Act provide coverage for total disability or
death due to pneumoconiosis to all claimants who meet the eligibility requirements imposed by the Act. Section 422 of the Act and the regulations duly promulgated thereunder (part 725 of this subchapter) set forth the conditions under which a coal mine operator may be adjudicated liable for the payment of benefits to an eligible claimant for any period subsequent to December 31, 1973.
(ii) Section 422(c) of the Act prescribes that except as provided in 422(i) (see paragraph (c)(2) of this section) an operator may be adjudicated liable for the payment of benefits in any case if the total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis upon which the claim is predicated arose at least in part out of employment in a mine in any period during which it was operated by such operator. The Act does not require that such employment which contributed to or caused the total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis occur subsequent to any particular date in time. The Secretary in establishing a formula for determining the operator liable for the payment of benefits (see subpart D of part 725 of this subchapter) in respect of any particular claim, must therefore, within the framework and intent of title IV of the Act find in appropriate cases that an operator is liable for the payment of benefits for some period after December 31, 1973, even though the employment upon which an operator's liability is based occurred prior to July 1, 1973, or prior to the effective date of the Act or the effective date of any amendments thereto, or prior to the effective date of any policy or contract of insurance obtained by such operator. The endorsement provisions contained in paragraph (a) of this section shall be construed to incorporate these requirements in any policy or contract of insurance obtained by an operator to meet the obligations imposed on such operator by section 423 of the Act.
(2)
Successor liability.
Section 422(i) of part C of title IV of the Act requires that a coal mine operator who after December 30, 1969, acquired his mine or substantially all of the assets thereof from a person who was an operator of such mine on or after December 30, 1969, shall be liable for and shall secure the payment of benefits which would have been payable by the prior operator with respect to miners previously employed in such mine if the acquisition had not occurred and the prior operator had continued to operate such mine. In the case of an operator who is determined liable for the payment of benefits under section 422(i) of the Act and part 725 of this subchapter, such liability shall accrue to such operator regardless of the fact that the miner on whose total disability or death the claim is predicated was never employed by such operator in any capacity. The endorsement provisions contained in paragraph (a) of this section shall be construed to incorporate this requirement in any policy or contract of insurance obtained by an operator to meet the obligations imposed on such operator by section 423 of the Act.
(3)
Medical eligibility.
Pursuant to section 422(h) of part C of title IV of the Act and the regulations described therein (see subpart D of part 410 of this title) benefits shall be paid to eligible claimants on account of total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis and in cases where the miner on whose death a claim is predicated was totally disabled by pneumoconiosis at the time of his death regardless of the cause of such death. The endorsement provisions contained in paragraph (a) of this section shall be construed to incorporate these requirements in any policy or contract of insurance obtained by an operator to meet the obligations imposed on such operator by section 423 of the Act.
(4)
Payment of benefits, rates.
Section 422(c) of the Act by incorporating section 412(a) of the Act requires the payment of benefits at a rate equal to 50 per centum of the minimum monthly payment to which a Federal employee in grade GS-2, who is totally disabled is entitled at the time of payment under Chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code. These benefits are augmented on account of eligible dependents as appropriate (see section 412(a) of part B of title IV of the Act). Since the dollar amount of benefits payable to any beneficiary is required to be computed at the time of payment such amounts may be expected to increase from time to time as changes in the
GS-2 grade are enacted into law. The endorsement provisions contained in paragraph (a) of this section shall be construed to incorporate in any policy or contract of insurance obtained by an operator to meet the obligations imposed on such operator by section 423 of the Act, the requirement that the payment of benefits to eligible beneficiaries shall be made in such dollar amounts as are prescribed by section 412(a) of the Act computed at the time of payment.
(5)
Compromise and waiver of benefits.
Section 422(a) of part C of title IV of the Act by incorporating sections 15(b) and 16 of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 915(b) and 916) prohibits the compromise and/or waiver of claims for benefits filed or benefits payable under section 415 and part C of title IV of the Act. The endorsement provisions contained in paragraph (a) of this section shall be construed to incorporate these prohibitions in any policy or contract of insurance obtained by an operator to meet the obligations imposed on such operator by section 423 of the Act.
(6)
Additional requirements.
In addition to the requirements described in paragraph (c)(1) through (5) of this section, the endorsement provisions contained in paragraph (a) of this section shall, to the fullest extent possible, be construed to bring any policy or contract of insurance entered into by an operator for the purpose of insuring such operator's liability under part C of title IV of the Act into conformity with the legal requirements placed upon such operator by section 415 and part C of title IV of the Act and parts 720 and 725 of this subchapter.
(d) Nothing in this section shall relieve any operator or carrier of the duty to comply with any State workmen's compensation law, except insofar as such State law is in conflict with the provisions of this section.
§ 726.204
Statutory policy provisions.
Pursuant to section 423(b) of part C of title IV of the Act each policy or contract of insurance obtained to comply with the requirements of section 423(a) of the Act must contain or shall be construed to contain—
(a) A provision to pay benefits required under section 422 of the Act, notwithstanding the provisions of the State workmen's compensation law which may provide for lesser payments; and,
(b) A provision that insolvency or bankruptcy of the operator or discharge therein (or both) shall not relieve the carrier from liability for such payments.
§ 726.205
Other forms of endorsement and policies.
Forms of endorsement or policies other than that described in § 726.203 may be entered into by operators to insure their liability under the Act. However, any form of endorsement or policy which materially alters or attempts to materially alter an operator's liability for the payment of any benefits under the Act shall be deemed insufficient to discharge such operator's duties and responsibilities as prescribed in part C of title IV of the Act. In any event, the failure of an operator to obtain an adequate policy or contract of insurance shall not affect such operator's liability for the payment of any benefits for which he is determined liable.
§ 726.206
Terms of policies.
A policy or contract of insurance shall be issued for the term of 1 year from the date that it becomes effective, but if such insurance be not needed except for a particular contract or operation, the term of the policy may be limited to the period of such contract or operation.
§ 726.207
Discharge by the carrier of obligations and duties of operator.
Every obligation and duty in respect of payment of benefits, the providing of medical and other treatment and care, the payment or furnishing of any other benefit required by the Act and in respect of the carrying out of the administrative procedure required or imposed by the Act or the regulations in this part or part 725 of this subchapter upon an operator shall be discharged and carried out by the carrier as appropriate. Notice to or knowledge of an operator of the occurrence of total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis
shall be notice to or knowledge of such carrier. Jurisdiction of the operator by a district director, administrative law judge, the Office, or appropriate appellate authority under the Act shall be jurisdiction of such carrier. Any requirement under any benefits order, finding, or decision shall be binding upon such carrier in the same manner and to the same extent as upon the operator.

# Reports by Carrier
§ 726.208
Report by carrier of issuance of policy or endorsement.
Each carrier shall report to the Office each policy and endorsement issued, canceled, or renewed by it to an operator. The report shall be made in such manner and on such form as the Office may require.
§ 726.209
Report; by whom sent.
The report of issuance, cancellation, or renewal of a policy and endorsement provided for in § 726.208 shall be sent by the home office of the carrier, except that any carrier may authorize its agency or agencies to make such reports to the Office.
§ 726.210
Agreement to be bound by report.
Every carrier seeking to write insurance under the provisions of the Act shall be deemed to have agreed that the acceptance by the Office of a report of the issuance or renewal of a policy of insurance, as provided for by § 726.208 shall bind the carrier to full liability for the obligations under the Act of the operator named in said report. It shall be no defense to this agreement that the carrier failed or delayed to issue, cancel, or renew the policy to the operator covered by this report.
§ 726.211
Name of one employer only shall be given in each report.
A separate report of the issuance or renewal of a policy and endorsement, provided for by § 726.208, shall be made for each operator covered by a policy. If a policy is issued or renewed insuring more than one operator, a separate report for each operator so covered shall be sent to the Office with the name of only one operator on each such report.
§ 726.212
Notice of cancellation.
Cancellation of a contract or policy of insurance issued under authority of the Act shall not become effective otherwise than as provided by 33 U.S.C. 936(b); and notice of a proposed cancellation shall be given to the Office and to the operator in accordance with the provisions of 33 U.S.C. 912(c), 30 days before such cancellation is intended to be effective (see section 422(a) of part C of title IV of the Act).
§ 726.213
Reports by carriers concerning the payment of benefits.
Pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 914(c) as incorporated by section 422(a) of part C of title IV of the Act and § 726.207 each carrier issuing a policy or contract of insurance under the Act shall upon making the first payment of benefits and upon the suspension of any payment in any case, immediately notify the Office in accordance with a form prescribed by the Office that payment of benefit has begun or has been suspended as the case may be. In addition, each such carrier shall at the request of the Office submit to the Office such additional information concerning policies or contracts of insurance issued to guarantee the payment of benefits under the Act and any benefits paid thereunder, as the Office may from time to time require to carry out its responsibilities under the Act.

# Subpart D—Civil Money Penalties
§ 726.300
Purpose and scope.
Any operator which is required to secure the payment of benefits under section 423 of the Act and § 726.4 and which fails to secure such benefits, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $1,000, as adjusted by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended, for each day during which such failure occurs. If the operator is a corporation, the president, secretary, and treasurer of the operator shall also be severally liable for the penalty based on the operator's failure to secure the payment of benefits. This subpart defines those terms necessary for administration of the civil money penalty provisions, describes the criteria for determining the
amount of penalty to be assessed, and sets forth applicable procedures for the assessment and contest of penalties.
[81 FR 43449, July 1, 2016]
§ 726.301
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions provided in part 725 of this subchapter and § 726.8, the following definitions apply to this subpart:
(a)
Division Director
means the Director, Division of Coal Mine Workers' Compensation, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, or such other official authorized by the Division Director to perform any of the functions of the Division Director under this subpart.
(b)
President, secretary, or treasurer
means the officers of a corporation as designated pursuant to the laws and regulations of the state in which the corporation is incorporated or, if that state does not require the designation of such officers, the employees of a company who are performing the work usually performed by such officers in the state in which the corporation's principal place of business is located.
(c)
Principal
means any person who has an ownership interest in an operator that is not a corporation, and shall include, but is not limited to, partners, sole proprietors, and any other person who exercises control over the operation of a coal mine.
[65 FR 80097, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 77 FR 37287, June 21, 2012]
§ 726.302
Determination of penalty.
(a) The following method shall be used for determining the amount of any penalty assessed under this subpart.
(b) The penalty shall be determined by multiplying the daily base penalty amount or amounts, determined in accordance with the formula set forth in this section, by the number of days in the period during which the operator is subject to the security requirements of section 423 of the Act and § 726.4, and fails to secure its obligations under the Act. The period during which an operator is subject to liability for a penalty for failure to secure its obligations shall be deemed to commence on the first day on which the operator met the definition of the term “operator” as set forth in § 725.101 of this subchapter. The period shall be deemed to continue even where the operator has ceased coal mining and any related activity, unless the operator secured its liability for all previous periods through a policy or policies of insurance obtained in accordance with subpart C of this part or has obtained a certification of exemption in accordance with the provisions of § 726.114.
(c)(1) A daily base penalty amount shall be determined for all periods up to and including the 10th day after the operator's receipt of the notification sent by the Director pursuant to § 726.303, during which the operator failed to secure its obligations under section 423 of the Act and § 726.4.
(2)(i) The daily base penalty amount shall be determined based on the number of persons employed in coal mine employment by the operator, or engaged in coal mine employment on behalf of the operator, on each day of the period defined by this section.
For penalties assessed after January 15, 2025, the daily base penalty amount shall be computed as follows:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
c
)(2)(
i
)
Employees
Penalty
(per day)
Less than 25
$179
25-50
355
51-100
534
More than 100
710
(ii) For any period after the operator has ceased coal mining and any related activity, the daily penalty amount shall be computed based on the largest number of persons employed in coal mine employment by the operator, or engaged in coal mine employment on behalf of the operator, on any day while the operator was engaged in coal mining or any related activity. For purposes of this section, it shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that any person employed by an operator is employed in coal mine employment.
(3) In any case in which the operator had prior notice of the applicability of the Black Lung Benefits Act to its operations, the daily base penalty amounts set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(i)
of this section shall be doubled. Prior notice may be inferred where the operator, or an entity in which the operator or any of its principals had an ownership interest, or an entity in which the operator's president, secretary, or treasurer were employed:
(i) Previously complied with section 423 of the Act and § 726.4;
(ii) Was notified of its obligation to comply with section 423 of the Act and § 726.4; or
(iii) Was notified of its potential liability for a claim filed under the Black Lung Benefits Act pursuant to § 725.407 of this subchapter.
(4) Commencing with the 11th day after the operator's receipt of the notification sent by the Director pursuant to § 726.303, for penalties assessed after January 15, 2025, the daily base penalty amounts set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(i) shall be increased by $179.
(5) In any case in which the operator, or any of its principals, or an entity in which the operator's president, secretary, or treasurer were employed, has been the subject of a previous penalty assessment under this part, for penalties assessed after January 15, 2025, the daily base penalty amounts shall be increased by $534.
(6) The maximum daily base penalty amount applicable to any violation of § 726.4 for which penalties are assessed after January 15, 2025, shall be $3,650.
(d) The penalty shall be subject to reduction for any period during which the operator had a reasonable belief that it was not required to comply with section 423 of the Act and § 726.4 or a reasonable belief that it had obtained insurance coverage to comply with section 423 of the Act and § 726.4. A notice of contest filed in accordance with § 726.307 shall not be sufficient to establish a reasonable belief that the operator was not required to comply with the Act and regulations.
[65 FR 80097, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 43449, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 5381, Jan. 18, 2017; 83 FR 12, Jan. 2, 2018; 84 FR 217, Jan. 23, 2019; 85 FR 2297, Jan. 15, 2020; 86 FR, Jan. 15, 2021; 87 FR 2333, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2215, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1815, Jan. 11, 2024; 90 FR 1859, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 726.303
Notification; investigation.
(a) If the Director determines that an operator has violated the provisions of section 423 of the Act and § 726.4, he or she shall notify the operator of its violation and request that the operator immediately secure the payment of benefits. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail.
(b) The Director shall also direct the operator to supply information relevant to the assessment of a penalty. Such information, which shall be supplied within 30 days of the Director's request, may include:
(1) The date on which the operator commenced its operation of a coal mine;
(2) The number of persons employed by the operator since it began operating a coal mine and the dates of their employment; and
(3) The identity and last known address:
(i) In the case of a corporation, of all persons who served as president, secretary, and treasurer of the operator since it began operating a coal mine; or
(ii) In the case of an operator which is not incorporated, of all persons who were principals of the operator since it began operating a coal mine;
(c) In conducting any investigation of an operator under this subpart, the Division Director shall have all of the powers of a district director, as set forth at § 725.351(a) of this subchapter. For purposes of § 725.351(c), the Division Director shall be considered to sit in the District of Columbia.
§ 726.304
Notice of initial assessment.
(a) After an operator receives notification under § 726.303 and fails to secure its obligations for the period defined in § 726.302(b), and following the completion of any investigation, the Director may issue a notice of initial penalty assessment in accordance with the criteria set forth in § 726.302.
(b)(1) A copy of such notice shall be sent by certified mail to the operator. If the operator is a corporation, a copy shall also be sent by certified mail to each of the persons who served as president, secretary, or treasurer of the operator during any period in which the operator was in violation of section 423 of the Act and § 726.4.
(2) Where service by certified mail is not accepted by any person, the notice shall be deemed received by that person on the date of attempted delivery. Where service is not accepted, the Director may exercise discretion to serve the notice by regular mail.
§ 726.305
Contents of notice.
The notice required by § 726.304 shall:
(a) Identify the operator against whom the penalty is assessed, as well as the name of any other person severally liable for such penalty;
(b) Set forth the determination of the Director as to the amount of the penalty and the reason or reasons therefor;
(c) Set forth the right of each person identified in paragraph (a) of this section to contest the notice and request a hearing before the Office of Administrative Law Judges;
(d) Set forth the method for each person identified in paragraph (a) to contest the notice and request a hearing before the Office of Administrative Law Judges; and
(e) Inform any affected person that in the absence of a timely contest and request for hearing received within 30 days of the date of receipt of the notice, the Director's assessment will become final and unappealable as to that person.
§ 726.306
Finality of administrative assessment.
Except as provided in § 726.307(c), if any person identified as potentially liable for the assessment does not, within 30 days after receipt of notice, contest the assessment, the Director's assessment shall be deemed final as to that person, and collection and recovery of the penalty may be instituted pursuant to § 726.320.
§ 726.307
Form of notice of contest and request for hearing.
(a) Any person desiring to contest the Director's notice of initial assessment shall request an administrative hearing pursuant to this part. The notice of contest shall be made in writing to the Director, Division of Coal Mine Workers' Compensation, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, United States Department of Labor. The notice of contest must be received no later than 30 days after the date of receipt of the notice issued under § 726.304. No additional time shall be added where service of the notice is made by mail.
(b) The notice of contest shall:
(1) Be dated;
(2) Be typewritten or legibly written;
(3) State the specific issues to be contested. In particular, the person must indicate his agreement or disagreement with:
(i) The Director's determination that the person against whom the penalty is assessed is an operator subject to the requirements of section 423 of the Act and § 726.4, or is the president, secretary, or treasurer of an operator, if the operator is a corporation.
(ii) The Director's determination that the operator violated section 423 of the Act and § 726.4 for the time period in question; and
(iii) The Director's determination of the amount of penalty owed;
(4) Be signed by the person making the request or an authorized representative of such person; and
(5) Include the address at which such person or authorized representative desires to receive further communications relating thereto.
(c) A notice of contest filed by the operator shall be deemed a notice of contest on behalf of all other persons to the Director's determinations that the operator is subject to section 423 of the Act and § 726.4 and that the operator violated those provisions for the time period in question, and to the Director's determination of the amount of penalty owed. An operator may not contest the Director's determination that a person against whom the penalty is assessed is the president, secretary, or treasurer of the operator.
(d) Failure to specifically identify an issue as contested pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall be deemed a waiver of the right to contest that issue.
[65 FR 80097, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 77 FR 37287, June 21, 2012]
§ 726.308
Service and computation of time.
(a) Service of documents under this subpart while the matter is before OWCP shall be made by delivery to the
person, an officer of a corporation, or attorney of record, or by mailing the document to the last known address of the person, officer, or attorney. If service is made by mail, it shall be considered complete upon mailing. Unless otherwise provided in this subpart, service need not be made by certified mail. If service is made by delivery, it shall be considered complete upon actual receipt by the person, officer, or attorney; upon leaving it at the person's, officer's, or attorney's office with a clerk or person in charge; upon leaving it at a conspicuous place in the office if no one is in charge; or by leaving it at the person's or attorney's residence.
(b) Service made after a complaint is filed under § 726.309 must be made in accordance with 29 CFR part 18, as appropriate. When proceedings are initiated for review by the Administrative Review Board under § 726.314, service must be made in accordance with 29 CFR part 26, as appropriate.
(c) The time allowed a party to file any response under this subpart shall be computed beginning with the day following the action requiring a response, and shall include the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or federally-observed holiday,
see
§ 725.311 of Part 725 of this subchapter, in which case the time period shall include the next business day.
[65 FR 80097, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 86 FR 1779, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 726.309
Referral to the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
(a) Upon receipt of a timely notice of contest filed in accordance with § 726.307, the Director, by the Associate Solicitor for Black Lung Benefits or the Regional Solicitor for the Region in which the violation occurred, may file a complaint with the Office of Administrative Law Judges. The Director may, in the complaint, reduce the total penalty amount requested. A copy of the notice of initial assessment issued by the Director and all notices of contest filed in accordance with § 726.307 shall be attached. A notice of contest shall be given the effect of an answer to the complaint for purposes of the administrative proceeding, subject to any amendment that may be permitted under this subpart and 29 CFR part 18.
(b) A copy of the complaint and attachments thereto shall be served by counsel for the Director on the person who filed the notice of contest.
(c) The Director, by counsel, may withdraw a complaint filed under this section at any time prior to the date upon which the decision of the Department becomes final by filing a motion with the Office of Administrative Law Judges or the Secretary, as appropriate. If the Director makes such a motion prior to the date on which an administrative law judge renders a decision in accordance § 726.313, the dismissal shall be without prejudice to further assessment against the operator for the period in question.
§ 726.310
Appointment of Administrative Law Judge and notification of hearing date.
Upon receipt from the Director of a complaint filed pursuant to § 726.309, the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall appoint an Administrative Law Judge to hear the case. The Administrative Law Judge shall notify all interested parties of the time and place of the hearing.
§ 726.311
Evidence.
(a) Except as specifically provided in this subpart, and to the extent they do not conflict with the provisions of this subpart, the Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges established by the Secretary at 29 CFR part 18 shall apply to administrative proceedings under this subpart.
(b) Notwithstanding 29 CFR 18.1101(b)(2), subpart B of the Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges shall apply to administrative proceedings under this part, except that documents contained in Department of Labor files and offered on behalf of the Director shall be admissible in proceedings under this subpart without regard to their compliance with the Rules of Practice and Procedure.
§ 726.312
Burdens of proof.
(a) The Director shall bear the burden of proving the existence of a violation, and the time period for which the violation occurred. To prove a violation, the Director must establish:
(1) That the person against whom the penalty is assessed is an operator, or is the president, secretary, or treasurer of an operator, if such operator is a corporation.
(2) That the operator violated section 423 of the Act and § 726.4. The filing of a complaint shall be considered
prima facie
evidence that the Director has searched the records maintained by OWCP and has determined that the operator was not authorized to self-insure its liability under the Act for the time period in question, and that no insurance carrier reported coverage of the operator for the time period in question.
(b) The Director need not produce further evidence in support of his burden of proof with respect to the issues set forth in paragraph (a) if no party contested them pursuant to § 726.307(b)(3).
(c) The Director shall bear the burden of proving the size of the operator as required by § 726.302, except that if the Director has requested the operator to supply information with respect to its size under § 726.303 and the operator has not fully complied with that request, it shall be presumed that the operator has more than 100 employees engaged in coal mine employment. The person or persons liable for the assessment shall thereafter bear the burden of proving the actual number of employees engaged in coal mine employment.
(d) The Director shall bear the burden of proving the operator's receipt of the notification required by § 726.303, the operator's prior notice of the applicability of the Black Lung Benefits Act to its operations, and the existence of any previous assessment against the operator, the operator's principals, or the operator's officers.
(e) The person or persons liable for an assessment shall bear the burden of proving the applicability of the mitigating factors listed in § 726.302(d).
§ 726.313
Decision and order of Administrative Law Judge.
(a) The Administrative Law Judge shall render a decision on the issues referred by the Director.
(b) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be limited to determining, where such issues are properly before him or her:
(1) Whether the operator has violated section 423 of the Act and § 726.4;
(2) Whether other persons identified by the Director as potentially severally liable for the penalty were the president, treasurer, or secretary of the corporation during the time period in question; and
(3) The appropriateness of the penalty assessed by the Director in light of the factors set forth in § 726.302. The Administrative Law Judge shall not render determinations on the legality of a regulatory provision or the constitutionality of a statutory provision.
(c) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall include a statement of findings and conclusions, with reasons and bases therefor, upon each material issue presented on the record. The decision shall also include an appropriate order which may affirm, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, the determination of the Director.
(d) The Administrative Law Judge shall serve copies of the decision on each of the parties by certified mail.
(e) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be deemed to have been issued on the date that it is rendered, and shall constitute the final order of the Secretary unless there is a request for reconsideration by the Administrative Law Judge pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section or a petition for review filed pursuant to § 726.314.
(f) Any party may request that the Administrative Law Judge reconsider his or her decision by filing a motion within 30 days of the date upon which the decision of the Administrative Law Judge is issued. A timely motion for reconsideration shall suspend the running of the time for any party to file a petition for review pursuant to § 726.314.
(g) Following issuance of the decision and order, the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall promptly forward the
complete hearing record to the Director.
§ 726.314
Review by the Administrative Review Board.
(a) The Director or any party aggrieved by a decision of the Administrative Law Judge may petition the Administrative Review Board (Board) for review of the decision by filing a petition within 30 days of the date on which the decision was issued. Any other party may file a cross-petition for review within 15 days of its receipt of a petition for review or within 30 days of the date on which the decision was issued, whichever is later. Copies of any petition or cross-petition shall be served on all parties and on the Chief Administrative Law Judge.
(b) A petition filed by one party shall not affect the finality of the decision with respect to other parties.
(c) If any party files a timely motion for reconsideration, any petition for review, whether filed prior to or subsequent to the filing of the timely motion for reconsideration, shall be dismissed without prejudice as premature. The 30-day time limit for filing a petition for review by any party shall commence upon issuance of a decision on reconsideration.
[65 FR 80097, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 86 FR 1779, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 726.315
Contents.
Any petition or cross-petition for review shall:
(a) Be dated;
(b) Be typewritten or legibly written;
(c) State the specific reason or reasons why the party petitioning for review believes the Administrative Law Judge's decision is in error;
(d) Be signed by the party filing the petition or an authorized representative of such party; and
(e) Attach copies of the Administrative Law Judge's decision and any other documents admitted into the record by the Administrative Law Judge which would assist the Secretary in determining whether review is warranted.
§ 726.316
Filing and service.
(a)
Filing.
All documents submitted to the Administrative Review Board (Board) shall be filed in accordance with 29 CFR part 26.
(b)
Computation of time for delivery by mail.
Documents are not deemed filed with the Board until actually received by the Board either on or before the due date. No additional time shall be added where service of a document requiring action within a prescribed time was made by mail.
(c)
Manner and proof of service.
A copy of each document filed with the Board shall be served upon all other parties involved in the proceeding in accordance with 29 CFR part 26.
[86 FR 1779, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 726.317
Discretionary review.
(a) Following receipt of a timely petition for review, the Administrative Review Board (Board) shall determine whether the decision warrants review, and shall send a notice of such determination to the parties and the Chief Administrative Law Judge. If the Board declines to review the decision, the Administrative Law Judge's decision shall be considered the final decision of the agency. The Board's determination to review a decision by an Administrative Law Judge under this subpart is solely within the discretion of the Board.
(b) The Board's notice shall specify:
(1) The issue or issues to be reviewed; and
(2) The schedule for submitting arguments, in the form of briefs or such other pleadings as the Board deems appropriate.
(c) Upon receipt of the Board notice, the Director shall forward the record to the Board.
[86 FR 1779, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 726.318
Decision of the Administrative Review Board.
The Administrative Review Board's (Board) review shall be based upon the hearing record. The findings of fact in the decision under review shall be conclusive if supported by substantial evidence in the record as a whole. The Board's review of conclusions of law shall be de novo. Upon review of the decision, the Board may affirm, reverse, modify, or vacate the decision, and may remand the case to the Office of
Administrative Law Judges for further proceedings. The Board's decision shall be served upon all parties and the Chief Administrative Law Judge in accordance with 29 CFR part 26.
[86 FR 1780, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 726.319
Retention of official record.
The official record of every completed administrative hearing held pursuant to this part shall be maintained and filed under the custody and control of the Director.
§ 726.320
Collection and recovery of penalty.
(a) When the determination of the amount of any civil money penalty provided for in this part becomes final, in accordance with the administrative assessment thereof, or pursuant to the decision and order of an Administrative Law Judge, or following the decision of the Secretary, the amount of the penalty as thus determined is immediately due and payable to the U.S. Department of Labor on behalf of the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund. The person against whom such penalty has been assessed or imposed shall promptly remit the amount thereof, as finally determined, to the Secretary by certified check or by money order, made payable to the order of U.S. Department of Labor, Black Lung Program. Such remittance shall be delivered or mailed to the Director.
(b) If such remittance is not received within 30 days after it becomes due and payable, it may be recovered in a civil action brought by the Secretary in any court of competent jurisdiction, in which litigation the Secretary shall be represented by the Solicitor of Labor.
PARTS 727-799 [RESERVED]
20 CFR Ch. VII (4-1-25 Edition)
Benefits Review Board, Labor

# CHAPTER VII—BENEFITS REVIEW BOARD, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
Part
Page
800
[Reserved]
801
Establishment and operation of the Board
617
802
Rules of practice and procedure
620
803-899
[Reserved]
PART 800 [RESERVED]
Pt. 801

# PART 801—ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF THE BOARD

# Introductory
Sec.
801.1
Purpose and scope of this part.
801.2
Definitions and use of terms.
801.3
Applicability of this part to 20 CFR part 802.

# Establishment and Authority of the Board
801.101
Establishment.
801.102
Review authority.
801.103
Organizational placement.
801.104
Operational rules.

# Members of the Board
801.201
Composition of the Board.
801.202
Interim appointments.
801.203
Disqualification of Board members.

# Action by the Board
801.301
Quorum and votes of the permanent Board; panels within the Board.
801.302
Procedural rules.
801.303
Location of Board's proceedings.
801.304
Business hours.

# Representation
801.401
Representation before the Board.
801.402
Representation of Board in court proceedings.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 30 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
; Reorganization Plan No. 6 of 1950, 15 FR 3174; Secretary of Labor's Order 38-72, 38 FR 90, January 3, 1973.

# Source:
52 FR 27290, July 20, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

# Introductory
§ 801.1
Purpose and scope of this part.
This part 801 describes the establishment and the organizational structure of the Benefits Review Board of the Department of Labor, sets forth the general rules applicable to operation of the Board, and defines terms used in this chapter.
§ 801.2
Definitions and use of terms.
(a) For purposes of this chapter, except where the content clearly indicates otherwise, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Acts
means the several Acts listed in §§ 801.102 and 802.101 of this chapter, as amended and extended, unless otherwise specified.
(2)
Board
means the Benefits Review Board established by section 21 of the LHWCA (33 U.S.C. 921) as described in § 801.101, and as provided in this part and Secretary of Labor's Order No. 38-72 (38 FR 90). Mention in these regulations of the “permanent Board” refers to the five permanent Board members only.
(3)
Chairman
or
Chairman of the Board
means Chairman of the Benefits Review Board. The Chairman of the Board is officially entitled Chief Administrative Appeals Judge.
(4)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor.
(5)
Department
means the Department of Labor.
(6)
Judge
means an administrative law judge appointed as provided in 5 U.S.C. 3105 and subpart B of 5 CFR part 930, who is qualified to preside at hearings under 5 U.S.C. 557 and is empowered by the Secretary to conduct formal hearings whenever necessary in respect of any claim for benefits or compensation arising under the Acts.
(7)
Chief Administrative Law Judge
means the Chief Administrative Law Judge of the Department of Labor.
(8)
Director
means the Director of the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs of the Department of Labor (hereinafter OWCP).
(9)
Deputy commissioner
means a person appointed as provided in sections 39 and 40 of the LHWCA or his designee, authorized by the Director to make decisions and orders in respect to claims arising under the Acts.
(10)
Party
or
Party in Interest
means the Secretary or his designee and any person or business entity directly affected by the decision or order from which an appeal to the Board is taken.
(11)
Day
means calendar day.
(12)
Member
means a member of the Benefits Review Board. Unless specifically stated otherwise, the word “member” shall apply to permanent, temporary and interim members. Permanent Board members are officially entitled Administrative Appeals Judges. Temporary and interim Board members are designated as Acting Administrative Appeals Judges.
(b) The definitions contained in this part shall not be considered to derogate from the definitions of terms in the respective Acts.
(c) The definitions pertaining to the Acts contained in the several parts of chapter VI of this title 20 shall be applicable to this chapter as is appropriate.
[52 FR 27290, July 20, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 28640, July 31, 1987]
§ 801.3
Applicability of this part to 20 CFR part 802.
Part 802 of title 20, Code of Federal Regulations, contains the rules of practice and procedure of the Board. This part 801, including the definitions and usages contained in § 801.2, is applicable to part 802 of this chapter as appropriate.

# Establishment and Authority of the Board
§ 801.101
Establishment.
By Pub. L. 92-576, 82 Stat. 1251, in an amendment made to section 21 of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 921), there was established effective November 26, 1972, a Benefits Review Board, which is composed of members appointed by the Secretary of Labor.
§ 801.102
Review authority.
(a) The Board is authorized, as provided in 33 U.S.C. 921(b), as amended, to hear and determine appeals raising a substantial question of law or fact taken by any party in interest from decisions or orders with respect to claims for compensation or benefits arising under the following Acts, as amended and extended:
(1) The Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (LHWCA), 33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
(2) The Defense Base Act (DBA), 42 U.S.C. 1651
et seq.;
(3) The District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act (DCWCA), 36 D.C. Code 501
et seq.
(1973);
(4) The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA), 43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.;
(5) The Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities Act (NFIA), 5 U.S.C. 8171
et seq.;
(6) Title IV, section 415 and part C of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Public Law 95-164, 91 Stat. 1290 (formerly the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act, hereinafter, FCMHSA, of 1969) as amended by the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977, Public Law 92-239, 92 Stat. 95, the Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1977, Public Law 95-227, 92 Stat. 11, and the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981, Public Law 97-119, 95 Stat. 1643 (30 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
§ 801.103
Organizational placement.
As prescribed by the statute, the functions of the Benefits Review Board are quasi-judicial in nature and involve review of decisions made in the course of the administration of the above statutes by the Employment Standards Administration in the Department of Labor. It is accordingly found appropriate for organizational purposes to place the Board in the Office of the Deputy Secretary and it is hereby established in that Office, which shall be responsible for providing necessary funds, personnel, supplies, equipment, and records services for the Board.
§ 801.104
Operational rules.
The Deputy Secretary of Labor may promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary or appropriate for effective operation of the Benefits Review Board as an independent quasi-judicial body in accordance with the provisions of the statute.

# Members of the Board
§ 801.201
Composition of the Board.
(a) The Board shall be composed of five permanent members appointed by the Secretary from among individuals who are especially qualified to serve thereon. Each permanent member shall serve an indefinite term subject to the discretion of the Secretary.
(b) The member designated by the Secretary as Chairman of the Board shall serve as chief administrative officer of the Board and shall have the authority, as delegated by the Secretary, to exercise all administrative functions necessary to operate the Board.
(c) The four remaining members shall be the associate members of the Board.
(d) Upon application of the Chairman of the Board, the Secretary may designate up to four Department of Labor administrative law judges to serve as temporary Board members in addition to the five permanent Board members. Up to four such temporary members may serve at any one time. The term of any temporary Board member shall not exceed 1 year from date of appointment.
§ 801.202
Interim appointments.
(a)
Acting Chairman.
In the event that the Chairman of the Board is temporarily disabled or unavailable to perform his or her duties as prescribed in this chapter VII, he or she shall designate a permanent member to serve as Acting Chairman until such time as the Secretary designates an Acting Chairman. In the event that the Chairman is physically unable to make such designation, the next senior permanent member shall serve as Acting Chairman until such time as the Secretary of Labor designates an Acting Chairman.
(b)
Interim members.
In the event that a permanent member of the Board is temporarily unable to carry out his or her responsibilities because of disqualification, illness, or for any other reason, the Secretary of Labor may, in his or her discretion, appoint a qualified individual to serve in the place of such permanent member for the duration of that permanent member's inability to serve.
§ 801.203
Disqualification of Board Members.
(a) During the period in which the Chairman or the other members serve on the Board, they shall be subject to the Department's regulations governing ethics and conduct set forth at 20 CFR part 0.
(b) Notice of any objection which a party may have to any Board member who will participate in the proceeding shall be made by such party at the earliest opportunity. The Board member shall consider such objection and shall, in his or her discretion, either proceed with the case or withdraw.

# Action by the Board
§ 801.301
Quorum and votes of the permanent Board; panels within the Board.
(a) For the purpose of carrying out its functions under the Acts, whenever action is taken by the entire permanent Board sitting en banc, three permanent members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, and official action of the permanent Board can be taken only on the concurring vote of at least three permanent members.
(b) The Board may delegate any or all of its powers except en banc review to panels of three members. Each panel shall consist of at least two permanent members. Two members of the panel shall constitute a quorum and official panel action can be taken only on the concurring vote of two members of the panel.
(c) A panel decision shall stand unless vacated or modified by the concurring vote of at least three permanent members sitting en banc.
(d) En banc action is not available in cases arising under the District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act.
§ 801.302
Procedural rules.
Procedural rules for performance by the Board of its review functions and for insuring an adequate record for any judicial review of its orders, and such amendments to the rules as may be necessary from time to time, shall be promulgated by the Deputy Secretary. Such rules shall incorporate and implement the procedural requirements of section 21(b) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.
§ 801.303
Location of Board's proceedings.
The Board shall hold its proceedings at 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room N-5101, Washington, DC 20210, unless for good cause the Board orders that proceedings in a particular matter be held in another location.
[62 FR 10666, Mar. 7, 1997]
§ 801.304
Business hours.
The office of the Clerk of the Board at Washington, DC shall be open from 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. on all days, except
Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, for the purpose of receiving notices of appeal, petitions for review, other pleadings, motions, and other papers.

# Representation
§ 801.401
Representation before the Board.
On any issues requiring representation of the Secretary, the Director, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, a deputy commissioner, or an administrative law judge before the Board, such representation shall be provided by attorneys designated by the Solicitor of Labor. Representation of all other persons before the Board shall be as provided by the rules of practice and procedure promulgated under § 801.302 (see part 802 of this chapter).
§ 801.402
Representation of Board in court proceedings.
Except in proceedings in the Supreme Court of the United States, any representation of the Benefits Review Board in court proceedings shall be by attorneys designated by the Solicitor of Labor.
Pt. 802

# PART 802—RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Introductory
Sec.
802.101
Purpose and scope of this part.
802.102
Applicability of part 801 of this chapter.
802.103
Powers of the Board.
802.104
Consolidation; severance.
802.105
Stay of payment pending appeal.

# Subpart B—Prereview Procedures

# Commencing Appeal: Parties
802.201
Who may file an appeal.
802.202
Appearances by attorneys and other authorized persons; denial or authority to appear.
802.203
Fees for services.

# Notice of Appeal
802.204
[Reserved]
802.205
Time for filing.
802.206
Effect of motion for reconsideration on time for appeal.
802.207
[Reserved]
802.208
Contents of notice of appeal.
802.209
Transmittal of record to the Board.

# Initial Processing
802.210
Acknowledgment of notice of appeal.
802.211
Petition for review.
802.212
Response to petition for review.
802.213
Reply briefs.
802.214
Intervention.
802.215
Additional briefs.
802.216
[Reserved]
802.217
Waiver of time limitations for filing.
802.218
Failure to file papers; order to show cause.
802.219
Motions to the Board; orders.
802.220
Party not represented by an attorney; informal procedure.
802.221
Computation of time.
802.222
Filing notice of appeal, pleadings, and other correspondence.
802.223
Service requirements.

# Subpart C—Procedure for Review

# Action by the Board
802.301
Scope of review.
802.302
Docketing of appeals.

# Oral Argument Before the Board
802.303
Decision; no oral argument.
802.304
Purpose of oral argument.
802.305
Request for oral argument.
802.306
Action on request for oral argument.
802.307
Notice of oral argument.
802.308
Conduct of oral argument.
802.309
Absence of parties.

# Subpart D—Completion of Board Review

# Dismissals
802.401
Dismissal by application of party.
802.402
Dismissal by abandonment.

# Decision of the Board
802.403
Issuance of decisions; service.
802.404
Scope and content of Board decisions.
802.405
Remand.
802.406
Finality of Board decisions.

# Reconsideration
802.407
Reconsideration of Board decisions.
802.408
Notice of request for reconsideration.
802.409
Grant or denial of request.

# Judicial Review
802.410
Judicial review of Board decisions.
802.411
Certification of record for judicial review.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 30 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
Reorganization Plan No. 6 of 1950, 15 FR 3174; Secretary of Labor's Order 03-2006, 71 FR 4219, January 25, 2006.

# Source:
52 FR 27292, July 20, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Introductory
§ 802.101
Purpose and scope of this part.
(a) The purpose of part 802 is to establish the rules of practice and procedure governing the operation of the Benefits Review Board.
(b) Except as otherwise provided, the rules promulgated in this part apply to all appeals taken by any party from decisions or orders with respect to claims for compensation or benefits under the following Acts:
(1) The Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (LHWCA), 33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
(2) The Defense Base Act (DBA), 42 U.S.C. 1651
et seq.;
(3) The District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act (DCWCA), 36 D.C. Code 501
et seq.
(1973);
(4) The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA), 43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.;
(5) The Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities Act (NFIA), 5 U.S.C. 8171
et seq.;
(6) Title IV, section 415 and part C of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Public Law 95-164, 91 Stat. 1290 (formerly the FCMHSA of 1969), as amended by the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977, Public Law 95-239, 92 Stat. 95, the Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1977, Public Law 95-229, 92 Stat. 11, and the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981, Public Law 97-119, 95 Stat. 1643 (30 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
§ 802.102
Applicability of part 801 of this chapter.
Part 801 of this chapter VII sets forth rules of general applicability covering the composition, authority, and operation of the Benefits Review Board and definitions applicable to this chapter. The provisions of part 801 of this chapter are fully applicable to this part 802.
§ 802.103
Powers of the Board.
(a)
Conduct of proceedings.
Pursuant to section 27(a) of the LHWCA, the Board shall have power to preserve and enforce order during any proceedings for determination or adjudication of entitlement to compensation or benefits or for liability for payment thereof, and to do all things in accordance with law which may be necessary to enable the Board to effectively discharge its duties.
(b)
Contumacy.
Pursuant to section 27(b) of the LHWCA, if any person in proceedings before the Board disobeys or resists any lawful order or process, or misbehaves during a hearing or so near the place thereof as to obstruct the same, the Board shall certify the facts to the Federal district court having jurisdiction in the place in which it is sitting (or to the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia if it is sitting in the District) which shall thereupon in a summary manner hear the evidence as to the acts complained of, and if the evidence so warrants, punish such person in the same manner and to the same extent as for a contempt committed before the court, or commit such person upon the same conditions as if the doing of the forbidden act had occurred with reference to the process or in the presence of the court.
§ 802.104
Consolidation; severance.
(a) Cases may, in the sole discretion of the Board, be consolidated for purposes of an appeal upon the motion of any party or upon the Board's own motion where there exist common parties, common questions of law or fact or both, or in such other circumstances as justice and the administration of the Acts require.
(b) Upon its own motion, or upon motion of any party, the Board may, for good cause, order any proceeding severed with respect to some or all issues or parties.
§ 802.105
Stay of payment pending appeal.
(a) As provided in section 14(f) of the LHWCA and sections 415 and 422 of the Black Lung Benefits Act, the payment of the amounts required by an award of compensation or benefits shall not be stayed or in any way delayed beyond ten days after it becomes due pending final decision in any proceeding before the Board unless so ordered by the
Board. No stay shall be issued unless irreparable injury would otherwise ensue to the employer, coal mine operator or insurance carrier. Any order of the Board permitting any stay shall contain a specific finding, based upon evidence submitted to the Board and identified by reference thereto, that irreparable injury would result to such employer, operator or insurance carrier, and specify the nature and extent of the injury.
(b) When circumstances require, the Board, in its discretion, may issue a temporary order not to exceed 30 days granting a motion for stay of payment prior to the expiration of the ten-day period allowed for filing responses to motions pursuant to § 802.219(e). Following receipt of a response to the motion or expiration of the response time provided in § 802.219(e), the Board will issue a subsequent order ruling on the motion for stay of payment.
[52 FR 27292, July 20, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 16519, May 9, 1988]

# Subpart B—Prereview Procedures

# Commencing Appeal: Parties
§ 802.201
Who may file an appeal.
(a)
A party.
(1) Any party or party-in-interest adversely affected or aggrieved by a decision or order issued pursuant to one of the Acts over which the Board has appellate jurisdiction may appeal a decision or order of an administrative law judge or deputy commissioner to the Board by filing a notice of appeal pursuant to this subpart. (See § 802.205(b) and (c) for exceptions to this general rule.) A party who files a notice of appeal shall be deemed the petitioner. The Director, OWCP, when acting as a representative of the Special Fund established under the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act or the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund established by the Black Lung Benefits Act, or, when appealing a decision or order which affects the administration of one of the Acts, shall be considered a party adversely affected.
(2) When a decision or order is favorable to a party (
i.e.
, the prevailing party), the prevailing party may file a cross-appeal pursuant to § 802.205(b) to challenge any adverse findings of fact or conclusions of law in the same proceeding.
(b)
Representative parties.
In the event that a party has not attained the age of 18, is not mentally competent, or is physically unable to file and pursue or defend an appeal, the Board may permit any legally appointed guardian, committee, or other appropriate representative to file and pursue or defend the appeal, or it may in its discretion appoint such representative for purposes of the appeal. The Board may require any legally appointed representative to submit evidence of that person's authority.
§ 802.202
Appearances by attorneys and other authorized persons; denial or authority to appear.
(a)
Appearances.
Any party or intervenor or any representative duly authorized pursuant to § 802.201(b) may appear before and/or submit written argument to the Board by attorney or any other person, including any representative of an employee organization, duly authorized pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(b) Any individual petitioner or respondent or his duly authorized representative pursuant to § 802.201(b) or an officer of any corporate party or a member of any partnership or joint venture which is a party may participate in the appeal on his or her own behalf, or on behalf of such business entity.
(c) For each instance in which appearance before the Board is made by an attorney or duly authorized person other than the party or his legal guardian, committee, or representative, there shall be filed with the Board a notice of appearance. Any attorney or other duly authorized person of record who intends to withdraw from representation shall file prior written notice of intent to withdraw from representation of a party or of substitution of counsel or other representative.
(d)
Qualifications
—(1)
Attorneys.
An attorney at law who is admitted to practice before the Federal courts or before the highest court of any State, the District of Columbia, or any territory or commonwealth of the United States, may practice before the Board
unless he or she has been disqualified from representing claimants under the Act pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 931(b)(2)(C), or unless authority to appear has been denied pursuant to § 802.202(e)(1) and (3). An attorney's own representation that he or she is in good standing before any of such courts shall be sufficient proof thereof, unless otherwise ordered by the Board.
(2)
Persons not attorneys.
Any person who is not an attorney at law may be admitted to appear in a representative capacity unless he or she has been disqualified from representing claimants under the Act pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 931(b)(2)(C). An application by a person not an attorney at law for admission to appear in a proceeding shall be submitted in writing to the Board at the time such person's appearance is entered. The application shall state such person's name, address, telephone number, general education, any special training or experience in claims representation, and such person's relationship, if any, to the party being represented. The Board may, at any time, make further inquiry as to the qualification or ability of such person to render assistance. In the event of a failure to make application for admission to appear, the Board shall issue an order to show cause why admission to appear should not be denied. Admission to appear in a particular case shall not be deemed a blanket authorization to appear in other cases.
(e)
Denial of authority to appear
—(1)
Attorneys.
The Board may deny the privilege of appearing to any attorney, within applicable statutory constraints, e.g., 5 U.S.C. 555, who has been disbarred or suspended from the practice of law; who has surrendered his or her license while under investigation or under threat of disciplinary action; or who, after notice of an opportunity for hearing in the matter is found by the Board to have engaged in any conduct which would result in the loss of his or her license. No provision hereof shall apply to any attorney who appears on his or her own behalf.
(2)
Persons not attorneys.
The Board may deny the privilege of appearing to any person who, in the Board's judgment, lacks sufficient qualification or ability to render assistance. No provision hereof shall apply to any person who appears on his or her own behalf.
(3) Denial of authority to appear may be considered, after notice of and opportunity for a hearing, by the panel (constituted pursuant to § 801.301) which is assigned to decide the appeal in which the attorney or other person has entered an appearance. If such proceeding reveals facts suggesting that one of the circumstances described in 33 U.S.C. 931(b)(2)(C) exists, the Board shall refer that information to the Director, OWCP, for further proceedings pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 931(b)(2)(C) and 907(j). An attorney or other person may appeal a panel's decision to deny authority to appear to the entire permanent Board sitting en banc.
[52 FR 27292, July 20, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 16519, May 9, 1988]
§ 802.203
Fees for services.
(a) No fee for services rendered on behalf of a claimant in the successful pursuit or successful defense of an appeal shall be valid unless approved pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 928, as amended.
(b) All fees for services rendered in the successful pursuit or successful defense of an appeal on behalf of a claimant shall be subject to the provisions and prohibitions contained in 33 U.S.C. 928, as amended.
(c) Within 60 days of the issuance of a decision or non-interlocutory order by the Board, counsel or, where appropriate, representative for any claimant who has prevailed on appeal before the Board may file an application with the Board for a fee. Where the Board remands the case and the administrative law judge on remand issues an award, a fee petition may be filed within 60 days of the decision on remand. In the event that a claimant who was unsuccessful before the Board prevails on appeal to the court of appeals, his or her representative may within 60 days of issuance of the court's judgment file a fee application with the Board for services performed before the Board.
(d) A fee application shall include only time spent on services performed while the appeal was pending before the Board and shall be complete in all respects, containing all of the following specific information:
(1) A complete statement of the extent and character of the necessary work done;
(2) The professional status of each person for whom a fee is claimed who performed services on behalf of the claimant (if such professional status is other than attorney, a definition of the professional status of such individual must be included in the fee petition, including a statment of that individual's professional training, education and experience) and a statement that the attorney was a member in good standing of a state bar at the time the services were performed;
(3) The number of hours, in
1/4
hour increments, devoted by each person who performed services on behalf of the claimant and the dates on which such services were performed in each category of work;
(4) The normal billing rate for each person who performed services on behalf of the claimant. The rate awarded by the Board shall be based on what is reasonable and customary in the area where the services were rendered for a person of that particular professional status.
(e) Any fee approved shall be reasonably commensurate with the necessary work done and shall take into account the quality of the representation, the complexity of the legal issues involved, the amount of benefits awarded, and, when the fee is to be assessed against the claimant, shall also take into account the financial circumstances of the claimant. A fee shall not necessarily be computed by multiplying time devoted to work by an hourly rate.
(f) No contract pertaining to the amount of a fee shall be recognized.
(g) A fee application shall be served on all other parties and accompanied by a certificate of service. The Board will not take action on the fee application until such service is effected. Any party may respond to the application within 10 days of receipt of the application. The response shall be filed with the Board and served on all other parties.

# Notice of Appeal
§ 802.204
[Reserved]
§ 802.205
Time for filing.
(a) A notice of appeal, other than a cross-appeal, must be filed within 30 days from the date upon which a decision or order has been filed in the Office of the Deputy Commissioner pursuant to section 19(e) of the LHWCA or in such other office as may be established in the future (see §§ 702.349 and 725.478 of this title).
(b) If a timely notice of appeal is filed by a party, any other party may initiate a cross-appeal by filing a notice of appeal within 14 days of the date on which the first notice of appeal was filed, or within the time prescribed by paragraph (a) of this section, whichever period last expires. In the event that such other party was not properly served with the first notice of appeal, such party may initiate a cross-appeal by filing a notice of appeal within 14 days of the date that service is effected.
(c) Failure to file within the period specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section (whichever is applicable) shall foreclose all rights to review by the Board with respect to the case or matter in question. Any untimely appeal will be summarily dismissed by the Board for lack of jurisdiction.
§ 802.206
Effect of motion for reconsideration on time for appeal.
(a) A timely motion for reconsideration of a decision or order of an administrative law judge or deputy commissioner shall suspend the running of the time for filing a notice of appeal.
(b)(1) In a case involving a claim filed under the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act or its extensions (see § 802.101(b)(1)-(5)), a timely motion for reconsideration for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section is one which is filed not later than 10 days from the date the decision or order was filed in the Office of the Deputy Commissioner.
(2) In a case involving a claim filed under title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act, as amended (see § 802.101(b)(6)), a timely motion for reconsideration for purposes of paragraph
(a) of this section is one which is filed not later than 30 days from the date the decision or order was served on all parties by the administrative law judge and considered filed in the Office of the Deputy Commissioner (see §§ 725.478 and 725.479(b), (c) of this title).
(c) If the motion for reconsideration is sent by mail and the fixing of the date of delivery as the date of filing would result in a loss or impairment of reconsideration rights, it will be considered to have been filed as of the date of mailing. The date appearing on the U.S. Postal Service postmark (when available and legible) shall be prima facie evidence of the date of mailing. If there is no such postmark or it is not legible, other evidence such as, but not limited to, certified mail receipts, certificates of service and affidavits may also be used to establish the mailing date.
(d) If a motion for reconsideration is granted, the full time for filing an appeal commences on the date the subsequent decision or order on reconsideration is filed as provided in § 802.205.
(e) If a motion for reconsideration is denied, the full time for filing an appeal commences on the date the order denying reconsideration is filed as provided in § 802.205.
(f) If a timely motion for reconsideration of a decision or order of an administrative law judge or deputy commissioner is filed, any appeal to the Board, whether filed prior to or subsequent to the filing of the timely motion for reconsideration, shall be dismissed without prejudice as premature. Following decision by the administrative law judge or deputy commissioner pursuant to either paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, a new notice of appeal shall be filed with the Clerk of the Board by any party who wishes to appeal. During the pendency of an appeal to the Board, any party having knowledge that a motion for reconsideration of a decision or order of an administrative law judge or deputy commissioner has been filed shall notify the Board of such filing.
§ 802.207
[Reserved]
§ 802.208
Contents of notice of appeal.
(a) A notice of appeal shall contain the following information:
(1) The full name and address of the pettioner;
(2) The full name of the injured, disabled, or deceased employee;
(3) The full names and addresses of all other parties, including, among others, beneficiaries, employers, coal mine operators, and insurance carriers where appropriate;
(4) The case file number which appears on the decision or order of the administrative law judge;
(5) The claimant's OWCP file number;
(6) The date of filing of the decision or order being appealed;
(7) Whether a motion for reconsideration of the decision or order of the administrative law judge has been filed by any party, the date such motion was filed, and whether the administrative law judge has acted on such motion for reconsideration (see § 802.206);
(8) The name and address of the attorney or other person, if any, who is representing the petitioner.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section notwithstanding, any written communication which reasonably permits identification of the decision from which an appeal is sought and the parties affected or aggrieved thereby, shall be sufficient notice for purposes of § 802.205.
(c) In the event that identification of the case is not possible from the information submitted, the Clerk of the Board shall so notify the petitioner and shall give the petitioner a reasonable time to produce sufficient information to permit identification of the case. For purposes of § 802.205, the notice shall be deemed to have been filed as of the date the insufficient information was received.
§ 802.209
Transmittal of record to the Board.
Upon receipt of a copy of the notice of appeal or upon request of the Board, the deputy commissioner or other office having custody of such record shall immediately forward to the Clerk of the Board the official record of the
case, which record includes the transcript or transcripts of all formal proceedings with exhibits, all decisions and orders rendered in the case.

# Initial Processing
§ 802.210
Acknowledgment of notice of appeal.
Upon receipt by the Board of a notice of appeal, the Clerk of the Board shall as expeditiously as possible notify the petitioner and all other parties and the Solicitor of Labor, in writing, that a notice of appeal has been filed.
§ 802.211
Petition for review.
(a) Within 30 days after the receipt of an acknowledgment of a notice of appeal issued pursuant to § 802.210, the petitioner shall submit a petition for review to the Board which petition lists the specific issues to be considered on appeal.
(b) Each petition for review shall be accompanied by a supporting brief, memorandum of law or other statement which: Specifically states the issues to be considered by the Board; presents, with appropriate headings, an argument with respect to each issue presented with references to transcripts, pieces of evidence and other parts of the record to which the petitioner wishes the Board to refer; a short conclusion stating the precise result the petitioner seeks on each issue and any authorities upon which the petition relies to support such proposed result. The Longshore Desk Book and Black Lung Desk Book are not intended as final legal authorities and should not be cited or relied upon as such.
(c) Copies of the petition for review and accompanying documents must be served upon all parties and the Solicitor of Labor.
(d) Failure to submit a petition for review and brief within the 30-day period or to comply with any part of this section may, in the discretion of the Board, cause the appeal to be deemed abandoned (see § 802.402).
(e) When a party appears pro se the Board may, in its discretion, waive formal compliance with the requirements of this section and may, depending upon the particular circumstances, prescribe an alternate method of furnishing such information as may be necessary for the Board to decide the merits of any such appeal.
§ 802.212
Response to petition for review.
(a) Within 30 days after the receipt of a petition for review, each party upon whom it was served may submit to the Board a brief, memorandum, or other statement in response to it.
(b) Arguments in response briefs shall be limited to those which respond to arguments raised in petitioner's brief and to those in support of the decision below. Other arguments will not be considered by the Board (see § 802.205(b)).
§ 802.213
Reply briefs.
(a) Within 20 days after the receipt of a brief, memorandum, or statement submitted in response to the petition for review pursuant to § 802.212, any party upon whom it was served may file a brief, memorandum, or other statement in reply to it.
(b) Arguments in reply briefs shall be limited to those which reply to arguments made in the response brief. Any other arguments in a reply brief will not be considered by the Board.
§ 802.214
Intervention.
(a) If a person or legal entity shows in a written petition to intervene that his, her, or its rights are affected by any proceeding before the Board, the Board may permit that person or legal entity to intervene in the proceeding and to participate within limits prescribed by the Board.
(b) The petition to intervene shall state precisely:
(1) The rights affected, and
(2) The nature of any argument the person or legal entity intends to make.
§ 802.215
Additional briefs.
Additional briefs may be filed or ordered in the discretion of the Board and shall be submitted within time limits specified by the Board.
§ 802.216
[Reserved]
§ 802.217
Waiver of time limitations for filing.
(a) The time periods specified for submitting papers described in this part, except that for submitting a notice of appeal, may be enlarged for a reasonable period when in the judgment of the Board an enlargement is warranted.
(b) Any request for an enlargement of time pursuant to this section shall be directed to the Clerk of the Board and must be received by the Clerk on or prior to the date on which the paper is due.
(c) Any request for an enlargement of time pursuant to this section shall be submitted in writing in the form of a motion, shall specify the reasons for the request, and shall specify the date to which an enlargement of time is requested.
(d) Absent exceptional circumstances, no more than one enlargement of time shall be granted to each party.
(e) Absent a timely request for an enlargement of time pursuant to this section and the Board's granting that request, any paper submitted to the Board outside the applicable time period specified in this part shall be accompanied by a separate motion stating the reasons therefor and requesting that the Board accept the paper although filed out of time.
(f) When a paper filed out of time is accepted by the Board, the time for filing a response shall begin to run from the date of a party's receipt of the Board's order disposing of the motion referred to in paragraph (e) of this section.
§ 802.218
Failure to file papers; order to show cause.
(a) Failure to file any paper when due pursuant to this part, may, in the discretion of the Board, constitute a waiver of the right to further participation in the proceedings.
(b) When a petition for review and brief has not been submitted to the Board within the time limitation prescribed by § 802.211, or within an enlarged time limitation granted pursuant to § 802.217, the petitioner shall be ordered to show cause to the Board why his or her appeal should not be dismissed pursuant to § 802.402.
§ 802.219
Motions to the Board; orders.
(a) An application to the Board for an order shall be by motion in writing. A motion shall state with particularity the grounds therefor and shall set forth the relief or order sought.
(b) A motion shall be a separate document and shall not be incorporated in the text of any other paper filed with the Board, except for a statement in support of the motion. If this paragraph is not complied with, the Board will not consider and dispose of the motion.
(c) If there is no objection to a motion in whole or in part by another party to the case, the absence of an objection shall be stated on the motion.
(d) The rules governing the filing and service of documents in §§ 802.222 and 802.223 apply to all motions.
(e) Within 10 days of the receipt of a copy of a motion, a party may file a written response with the Board.
(f) As expeditiously as possible following receipt of a response to a motion or expiration of the response time provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the Board shall issue a dispositive order.
(g)
Orders granted by Clerk.
The Clerk of the Board may enter orders on behalf of the Board in procedural matters, including but not limited to:
(1) First motions for extensions of time for filing briefs and any papers other than notices of appeal or cross-appeal;
(2) Motions for voluntary dismissals of appeals;
(3) Orders to show cause why appeals should not be dismissed for failure to timely file a petition for review and brief (see § 802.218(b)); and
(4) Unopposed motions which are ordinarily granted as of course, except that the Clerk may, in his or her discretion, refer such motions for disposition to a motions panel as provided by paragraph (h) of this section.
(h)
All other motions.
All other motions will be referred for disposition to a panel of three members constituted pursuant to § 801.301. Any member may request that any motion be considered
by the entire permanent Board en banc except as provided in § 801.301(d).
(i)
Reconsideration of orders.
Any party adversely effected by any interlocutory order issued under paragraph (g) or (h) may file a motion to reconsider, vacate or modify the order within 10 days from its filing, stating the grounds for such request. Any motion for reconsideration, vacation or modification of an interlocutory order shall be referred to a three-member panel that may include any member who previously acted on the matter. Suggestions for en banc reconsideration of interlocutory orders shall not be accepted. Reconsideration of all other orders will be treated under § 802.407 of this part.
[52 FR 27292, July 20, 1987, as amended at 89 FR 8536, Feb. 8, 2024]
§ 802.220
Party not represented by an attorney; informal procedure.
A party to an appeal who is not represented by an attorney shall comply with the procedural requirements contained in this part, except as otherwise specifically provided in § 802.211(e). In its discretion, the Board may prescribe additional informal procedures to be followed by such party.
§ 802.221
Computation of time.
(a) In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by these rules, by direction of the Board, or by any applicable statute which does not provide otherwise, the day from which the designated period of time begins to run must not be included. The last day of the period so computed must be included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
(b) For nonelectronic documents, the time period computed under paragraph (a) of this section will be deemed complied with if—
(1) When sent by mail, the envelope containing the document is postmarked by the U.S. Postal Service within the time period allowed. If there is no such postmark, or it is not legible, other evidence such as, but not limited to, certified mail receipts, certificates of service, and affidavits, may be used to establish the mailing date.
(2) When sent by commercial carrier, the receipt or tracking information demonstrates that the paper was delivered to the carrier within the time period allowed.
(c) For electronic filings made through the Board's case management system, paragraph (a) of this section will be deemed to be met if the document is electronically filed within the time period allowed. A document is deemed filed as of the date and time the Board's electronic case management system records its receipt, even if transmitted outside of the Board's business hours set forth in § 801.304 of this chapter. To be considered timely, an e-filed pleading must be filed by 11:59:59 p.m. Eastern Time on the due date.
(d) A waiver of the time limitations for filing a paper, other than a notice of appeal, may be requested by proper motion filed in accordance with §§ 802.217 and 802.219.
[89 FR 8536, Feb. 8, 2024]
§ 802.222
Filing notice of appeal, pleadings, and other correspondence.
This section prescribes rules and procedures by which parties and representatives to proceedings before the Board file pleadings (including notices of appeal, petitions for review and briefs, response briefs, additional briefs, and motions), exhibits, and other documents including routine correspondence.
(a)
Requirements for all pleadings.
All pleadings filed with the Board must—
(1) Include a caption and title.
(2) Include a certificate of service containing—
(i) The date and manner of service;
(ii) The names of persons served; and
(iii) Their mail or electronic mail addresses or the addresses of the places of delivery, as appropriate for the manner of service.
(3) Include a signature of the party (or their attorney or lay representative) and date of signature. Pleadings filed by an attorney, lay representative or self-represented party via the Board's case management system will be deemed to be signed by that person.
(4) Conform to standard letter dimensions (8.5 x 11 inches).
(b)
Redacted filings and exhibits.
Any person who files a pleading, exhibit, or other document that contains an individual's social security number, taxpayer-identification number, or birth date; the name of an individual known to be a minor; or a financial-account number, must redact all such information, except the last four digits of the social security number and taxpayer-identification number; the year of the individual's birth; the minor's initials; and the last four digits of the financial-account number.
(c)
Nonelectronic filings.
All nonelectronic pleadings filed with the Board must be secured at the top. For each pleading filed with the Board, the original and two legible copies must be submitted. Nonelectronic filings must be sent to the U.S. Department of Labor, Benefits Review Board, ATTN: Office of the Clerk of the Appellate Boards (OCAB), 200 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20210-0001, or otherwise presented to the Clerk.
(d)
Electronic filings.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, beginning on March 11, 2024, attorneys and lay representatives must be registered with the Board's electronic case management system and file all pleadings, exhibits, and other documents with the Board through this system (e-file). All e-filed documents must be in Portable Document Format (PDF). The Board prefers that pleadings be filed in text-searchable PDF format. Paper copies are not required unless requested by the Board.
(2) Attorneys and lay representatives may request an exemption (pursuant to § 802.219) for good cause shown. Such a request must include a detailed explanation why e-filing or acceptance of e-service should not be required.
(3) Self-represented parties may file pleadings, exhibits, and other documents in electronic or nonelectronic form in accordance with paragraph (c) or (d) of this section.
(4) A document filed electronically is a written paper for purposes of this Part.
(5) A person who is adversely affected by a technical failure in connection with filing or receipt of an electronic document may seek appropriate relief from the Board under § 802.219. If a technical malfunction or other issue prevents access to the Board's case management system for a protracted period, the Board by special order may provide appropriate relief pending restoration of electronic access.
(e)
Special rules for notices of appeal.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a notice of appeal is considered to have been filed only as of the date it is received by the office of the Clerk of the Board.
(2) A notice of appeal submitted to any other agency or subdivision of the Department of Labor or of the U.S. Government or any state government, and subsequently received by the office of the Clerk of the Board, will be considered filed with the Clerk of the Board as of the date it was received by the other governmental unit if the Board finds in its discretion that it is in the interest of justice to do so.
(3) If the notice of appeal is sent by mail or commercial carrier and the fixing of the date of delivery as the date of filing would result in a loss or impairment of appeal rights, it will be considered to have been filed as of the date of mailing or the date of delivery to the commercial carrier.
(i) For notices sent by mail, the date appearing on the U.S. Postal Service postmark (when available and legible) will be prima facie evidence of the date of mailing. If there is no such postmark or it is not legible, other evidence such as, but not limited to, certified mail receipts, certificates of service, and affidavits, may be used to establish the mailing date.
(ii) For notices sent by commercial carrier, the date of delivery to the carrier may be demonstrated by the carrier's receipt or tracking information.
(4) If the notice of appeal is electronically filed through the Board's case management system, it is considered received by the office of the Clerk of the Board as of the date and time recorded by the system under § 802.221(c).
[89 FR 8536, Feb. 8, 2024]
§ 802.223
Service requirements.
This section prescribes rules and procedures for serving pleadings (including notices of appeal, petitions for review, and response briefs, additional briefs, and motions), exhibits, and other documents including routine correspondence on other parties and representatives.
(a) A copy of any document filed with the Board must be served on each party and the Solicitor of Labor by the party filing the document.
(b)
Manner of service.
(1) Nonelectronic service may be completed by:
(i) Personal delivery;
(ii) Mail; or
(iii) Commercial delivery.
(2) Electronic service may be completed by:
(i) Electronic mail, if consented to in writing by the person served; or
(ii) Sending it to a user registered with the Board's electronic case management system by filing via this system. A person who registers to use the Board's case management system is deemed to have consented to accept service through the system.
(c)
When service is effected.
(1) Service by personal delivery is effected on the date the document is delivered to the recipient.
(2) Service by mail or commercial carrier is effected on mailing or delivery to the carrier.
(3) Service by electronic means is effected on sending.
(d)
Date of receipt for electronic documents.
Unless the party making service is notified that the document was not received by the party served—
(1) A document filed via the Board's case management system is considered received by registered users on the date it is sent by the system; and
(2) A document served via electronic mail is considered received by the recipient on the date it is sent.
[89 FR 8537, Feb. 8, 2024]

# Subpart C—Procedure for Review

# Action by the Board
§ 802.301
Scope of review.
(a) The Benefits Review Board is not empowered to engage in a
de novo
proceeding or unrestricted review of a case brought before it. The Board is authorized to review the findings of fact and conclusions of law on which the decision or order appealed from was based. Such findings of fact and conclusions of law may be set aside only if they are not, in the judgment of the Board, supported by substantial evidence in the record considered as a whole or in accordance with law.
(b) Parties shall not submit new evidence to the Board. Any evidence submitted by a party which is not part of the record developed at the hearing before the administrative law judge will be returned without being considered by the Board.
(c) Any party who considers new evidence necessary to the adjudication of the claim may apply for modification pursuant to section 22 of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, 33 U.S.C. 922. A party who files a petition for modification shall promptly notify the Board of such filing. Upon receipt of such notification, the Board shall dismiss the case without prejudice. Should the petition for modification be declined, the petitioner may file a request for reinstatement of his or her appeal with the Board within 30 days of the date the petition is declined. Should the petition for modification be accepted, any party adversely affected by the decision or order granting or denying modification may file a new appeal with the Board within 30 days of the date the decision or order on modification is filed.
[52 FR 27292, July 20, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 16519, May 9, 1988]
§ 802.302
Docketing of appeals.
(a)
Maintenance of dockets.
A docket of all proceedings shall be maintained by the Board. Each proceeding shall be assigned a number in chronological order upon the date on which a notice of appeal is received. Correspondence or further applications in connection with any pending case shall refer to the docket number of that case.
(b)
Inspection of docket; publication of decision.
The docket of the Board shall be open to public inspection. The Board shall publish its decisions in a form
which is readily available for inspection, and shall allow the public to inspect its decisions at the permanent location of the Board.

# Oral Argument Before the Board
§ 802.303
Decision; no oral argument.
(a) In the event that no oral argument is ordered pursuant to § 802.306, the Board shall proceed to review the record of the case as expeditiously as possible after all briefs, supporting statements, and other pertinent documents have been received.
(b) Each case shall be considered in the order in which it becomes ready for decision, regardless of docket number, although for good cause shown, upon the filing of a motion to expedite by a party, the Board may advance the order in which a particular case is to be considered.
(c) The Board may advance an appeal on the docket on its own motion if the interests of justice would be served by so doing.
§ 802.304
Purpose of oral argument.
Oral argument may be held by the Board in any case:
(a) When there is a novel issue not previously considered by the Board; or
(b) When in the interests of justice oral argument will serve to assist the Board in carrying out the intent of any of the Acts; or
(c) To resolve conflicting decisions by administrative law judges on a substantial question of law.
§ 802.305
Request for oral argument.
(a) During the pendency of an appeal, but not later than the expiration of 20 days from the date of receipt of the response brief provided by § 802.212, any party may request oral argument. The Board on its own motion may order oral argument at any time.
(b) A request for oral argument shall be submitted in the form of a motion, specifying the issues to be argued and justifying the need for oral argument (see § 802.219).
(c) The party requesting oral argument shall set forth in the motion suggested dates and alternate cities convenient to the parties when and where they would be available for oral argument.
§ 802.306
Action on request for oral argument.
As expeditiously as possible after the date upon which a request for oral argument is received, the Board shall determine whether the request shall be granted or denied.
§ 802.307
Notice of oral argument.
(a) In cases where a request for oral argument has been approved or where oral argument has been ordered, the Board shall give all parties a minimum of 30 days' notice, in writing, by mail, of the scope of argument and of the time when, and place where, oral argument will be held.
(b) Once oral argument has been scheduled by the Board, continuances shall not be granted except for good cause shown by a party, such as in cases of extreme hardship or where attendance of a party or his or her representative is mandated at a previously scheduled judicial proceeding. Unless the ground for the request arises thereafter, requests for continuances must be received by the Board at least 15 days before the scheduled date of oral argument, must be served upon the other parties and must specify good cause why the requesting party cannot be available for oral argument.
(c) The Board may cancel or reschedule oral argument on its own motion at any time.
§ 802.308
Conduct of oral argument.
(a) Oral argument shall be held in Washington, DC, unless the Board orders otherwise, and shall be conducted at a time reasonably convenient to the parties. For good cause shown, the presiding judge of the panel may, in his or her discretion, postpone an oral argument to a more convenient time.
(b) The proceedings shall be conducted under the supervision of the Chairman or, if the Chairman is not on the panel, the senior judge, who shall regulate all procedural matters arising during the course of the argument.
(c) Within the discretion of the Board, oral argument shall be open to the public and may be presented by any
party, representative, or duly authorized attorney. Presentation of oral argument may be denied by the Board to a party who has not significantly participated in the appeal prior to oral argument.
(d) The Board shall determine the scope of any oral argument presented and shall so inform the parties in its notice scheduling oral argument pursuant to § 802.307.
(e) The Board in its discretion shall determine the amount of time allotted to each party for argument and rebuttal.
§ 802.309
Absence of parties.
The unexcused absence of a party or his or her authorized representative at the time and place set for argument shall not be the occasion for delay of the proceeding. In such event, argument on behalf of other parties may be heard and the case shall be regarded as submitted on the record by the absent party. The presiding judge may, with the consent of the parties present, cancel the oral argument and treat the appeal as submitted on the written record.

# Subpart D—Completion of Board Review

# Dismissals
§ 802.401
Dismissal by application of party.
(a) At any time prior to the issuance of a decision by the Board, the petitioner may move that the appeal be dismissed. If granted, such motion for dismissal shall be granted with prejudice to the petitioner.
(b) At any time prior to the issuance of a decision by the Board, any party or representative may move that the appeal be dismissed.
§ 802.402
Dismissal by abandonment.
(a) Upon motion by any party or representative or upon the Board's own motion, an appeal may be dismissed upon its abandonment by the party or parties who filed the appeal. Within the discretion of the Board, a party may be deemed to have abandoned an appeal if neither the party nor his representative participates significantly in the review proceedings.
(b) An appeal may be dismissed on the death of a party only if the record affirmatively shows that there is no person who wishes to continue the action and whose rights may be prejudiced by dismissal.

# Decision of the Board
§ 802.403
Issuance of decisions; service.
(a) The Board shall issue written decisions as expeditiously as possible after the completion of review proceedings before the Board. The transmittal of the decision of the Board shall indicate the availability of judicial review of the decision under section 21(c) of the LHWCA when appropriate.
(b) The original of the decision shall be filed with the Clerk of the Board. A copy of the Board's decision shall be sent by certified mail or otherwise presented to all parties to the appeal and the Director. The record on appeal, together with a transcript of any oral proceedings, any briefs or other papers filed with the Board, and a copy of the decision shall be returned to the appropriate deputy commissioner for filing.
(c) Proof of service of Board decisions shall be certified by the Clerk of the Board or by another employee in the office of the Clerk of the Board who is authorized to certify proof of service.
§ 802.404
Scope and content of Board decisions.
(a) In its decision the Board shall affirm, modify, vacate or reverse the decision or order appealed from, and may remand the case for action or proceedings consistent with the decision of the Board. The consent of the parties shall not be a prerequisite to a remand ordered by the Board.
(b) In appropriate cases, such as where the issues raised on appeal have been thoroughly discussed and disposed of in prior cases by the Board or the courts, or where the findings of fact and conclusions of law are both correct and adequately discussed, the Board in its discretion may issue a brief, summary decision in writing, disposing of the appeal.
(c) In cases which cannot be disposed of as in paragraph (b) of this section, a full, written decision discussing the issues and applicable law shall be issued.
§ 802.405
Remand.
(a)
By the Board.
Where a case is remanded, such additional proceedings shall be initiated and such other action shall be taken as is directed by the Board.
(b)
By a court.
Where a case has been remanded by a court, the Board may proceed in accordance with the court's mandate to issue a decision or it may in turn remand the case to an administrative law judge or deputy commissioner with instructions to take such action as is ordered by the court and any additional necessary action.
§ 802.406
Finality of Board decisions.
A decision rendered by the Board pursuant to this subpart shall become final 60 days after the issuance of such decision unless a written petition for review praying that the order be modified or set aside, pursuant to section 21(c) of the LHWCA, is filed in the appropriate U.S. court of appeals prior to the expiration of the 60-day period herein described, or unless a timely request for reconsideration by the Board has been filed as provided in § 802.407. If a timely request for reconsideration has been filed, the 60-day period for filing such petition for review will run from the issuance of the Board's decision on reconsideration.

# Reconsideration
§ 802.407
Reconsideration of Board decisions.
(a) Any party-in-interest may, within 30 days from the filing of a decision or non-interlocutory order by a panel or the Board pursuant to § 802.403(b), request reconsideration of such decision by those members who rendered the decision. The panel of members who heard and decided the appeal will rule on the motion for reconsideration. If any member of the original panel is unavailable, the Chariman shall designate a new panel member.
(b) Except as provided in § 801.301(d), a party may, within 30 days from the filing of a decision or non-interlocutory order by a panel of the Board pursuant to § 802.403(b), suggest the appropriateness of reconsideration by the permanent members sitting en banc. Such suggestion, however, must accompany a motion for reconsideration directed to the panel which rendered the decision. The suggestion for reconsideration en banc must be clearly marked as such.
(c) Except as provided in § 801.301(d), even where no party has suggested reconsideration en banc, any permanent member may petition the permanent Board for reconsideration en banc of a panel decision.
(d) Reconsideration en banc shall be granted upon the affirmative vote of the majority of permanent members of the Board. A panel decision shall stand unless vacated or modified by the concurring vote of at least three permanent members.
§ 802.408
Notice of request for reconsideration.
(a) In the event that a party requests reconsideration of a decision or order, he or she shall do so in writing, in the form of a motion, stating the supporting rationale for the request, and include any material pertinent to the request.
(b) The request shall be sent by mail, or otherwise presented, to the Clerk of the Board. Copies shall be served on all other parties.
§ 802.409
Grant or denial of request.
All requests for reconsideration shall be reviewed by the Board and shall be granted or denied in the discretion of the Board.

# Judicial Review
§ 802.410
Judicial review of Board decisions.
(a) Within 60 days after a decision by the Board has been filed pursuant to § 802.403(b), any party adversely affected or aggrieved by such decision may file a petition for review with the appropriate U.S. Court of Appeals pursuant to section 21(c) of the LHWCA.
(b) The Director, OWCP, as designee of the Secretary of Labor responsible
for the administration and enforcement of the statutes listed in § 802.101, shall be deemed to be the proper party on behalf of the Secretary of Labor in all review proceedings conducted pursuant to section 21(c) of the LHWCA.
§ 802.411
Certification of record for judicial review.
The record of a case including the record of proceedings before the Board shall be transmitted to the appropriate court pursuant to the rules of such court.
PARTS 803-899 [RESERVED]
20 CFR Ch. VIII (4-1-25 Edition)
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries

# CHAPTER VIII—JOINT BOARD FOR THE ENROLLMENT OF ACTUARIES
Part
Page
900
Statement of organization
637
901
Regulations governing the performance of actuarial services under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
637
902
Rules regarding availability of information
660
903
Access to records
661
904-999
[Reserved]
Pt. 900

# PART 900—STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION
Sec.
900.1
Basis.
900.2
Establishment.
900.3
Composition.
900.4
Meetings.
900.5
Staff.
900.6
Offices.
900.7
Delegations of authority.

# Authority:
Sec. 3041-2, Pub. L. 93-406, 88 Stat. 829, 1002 (29 U.S.C. 1241-2).

# Source:
40 FR 18776, Apr. 30, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 900.1
Basis.
This statement is issued by the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (the Joint Board) pursuant to the requirement of section 552 of title 5 of the United States Code that every agency shall publish in the
Federal Register
a description of its central and field organization.
§ 900.2
Establishment.
The Joint Board has been established by the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 3041 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1241). Bylaws of the Board have been issued by the two Secretaries.
1
1
Copy filed with the Office of the Federal Register. Copies may also be obtained from the Executive Director of the Board.
§ 900.3
Composition.
Pursuant to the Bylaws, the Joint Board consists of three members appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury and two members appointed by the Secretary of Labor. The Board elects a Chairman and a Secretary from among the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Labor members. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation may designate a non-voting representative to sit with, and participate in, the discussions of the Board. All decisions of the Board are made by simple majority vote.
[81 FR 8833, Feb. 23, 2016]
§ 900.4
Meetings.
The Joint Board meets on the call of the Chairman at such times as are necessary in order to consider matters requiring action. Minutes are kept of each meeting by the Secretary.
§ 900.5
Staff.
(a) The Executive Director advises and assists the Joint Board directly in carrying out its responsibilities under the Act and performs such other functions as the Board may delegate to him.
(b) Members of the staffs of the Departments of the Treasury and of Labor, by arrangement with the Joint Board, perform such services as may be appropriate in assisting the Board in the discharge of its responsibilities.
§ 900.6
Offices.
The Joint Board does not maintain offices separate from those of the Departments of the Treasury and Labor. Its post office address is Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, c/o Department of the Treasury, Washington, D.C. 20220.
§ 900.7
Delegations of authority.
As occasion warrants, the Joint Board may delegate functions to the Chairman or the Executive Director, including the authority to receive applications and to give notice of actions. Any such delegation of authority is conferred by resolution of the Board.
Pt. 901

# PART 901—REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE PERFORMANCE OF ACTUARIAL SERVICES UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974
Sec.
901.0
Scope.

# Subpart A—Definitions and Eligibility To Perform Actuarial Services
901.1
Definitions.
901.2
Eligibility to perform actuarial services.

# Subpart B—Enrollment of Actuaries
901.10
Application for enrollment.
901.11
Enrollment procedures.
901.12
Eligibility for enrollment.

# Subpart C—Standards of Performance for Enrolled Actuaries
901.20
Standards of performance of actuarial services.

# Subpart D—Suspension or Termination of Enrollment
901.30
Authority to suspend or terminate enrollment.
901.31
Grounds for suspension or termination of enrollment.
901.32
Receipt of information concerning enrolled actuaries.
901.33
Initiation of proceeding.
901.34
Conferences.
901.35
Contents of complaint.
901.36
Service of complaint and other papers.
901.37
Answer.
901.38
Supplemental charges.
901.39
Reply to answer.
901.40
Proof; variance; amendment of pleadings.
901.41
Motions and requests.
901.42
Representation.
901.43
Administrative Law Judge.
901.44
Hearings.
901.45
Evidence.
901.46
Depositions.
901.47
Transcript.
901.48
Proposed findings and conclusions.
901.49
Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.
901.50
Appeal to the Joint Board.
901.51
Decision of the Joint Board.
901.52
Effect of suspension, termination or resignation of enrollment; surrender of enrollment certificate.
901.53
Notice of suspension, termination or resignation of enrollment.
901.54
Petition for reinstatement.

# Subpart E—General Provisions
901.70
Records.
901.71
Special orders.
901.72
Additional rules.

# Authority:
Sec. 3042, subtitle C, title 3, Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. (88 Stat. 1002, 29 U.S.C. 1241, 1242), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
42 FR 39200, Aug. 3, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 901.0
Scope.
This part contains rules governing the performance of actuarial services under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, hereinafter also referred to as ERISA. Subpart A of this part sets forth definitions and eligibility to perform actuarial services; subpart B of this part sets forth rules governing the enrollment of actuaries; subpart C of this part sets forth standards of performance to which enrolled actuaries must adhere; subpart D sets forth rules applicable to suspension and termination of enrollment; and subpart E of this part sets forth general provisions.
[42 FR 39200, Aug. 3, 1977, as amended at 76 FR 17769, Mar. 31, 2011]

# Subpart A—Definitions and Eligibility To Perform Actuarial Services
§ 901.1
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
(a)
Actuarial experience
means the performance of, or the direct supervision of, services involving the application of principles of probability and compound interest to determine the present value of payments to be made upon the fulfillment of certain specified conditions or the occurrence of certain specified events.
(b)
Responsible actuarial experience
means actuarial experience:
(1) Involving participation in making determinations that the methods and assumptions adopted in the procedures followed in actuarial services are appropriate in the light of all pertinent circumstances, and
(2) Demonstrating a thorough understanding of the principles and alternatives involved in such actuarial services.
(c)
Month of responsible actuarial experience
means a month during which the actuary spent a substantial amount of time in responsible actuarial experience.
(d)
Responsible pension actuarial experience
means responsible actuarial experience involving valuations of the liabilities of pension plans, wherein the performance of such valuations requires the application of principles of life contingencies and compound interest in the determination, under one or more standard actuarial cost methods, of such of the following as may be appropriate in the particular case:
(1) Normal cost.
(2) Accrued liability.
(3) Payment required to amortize a liability or other amount over a period of time.
(4) Actuarial gain or loss.
(e)
Month of responsible pension actuarial experience
means a month during which the actuary spent a substantial amount of time in responsible pension actuarial experience.
(f)
Applicant
means an individual who has filed an application to become an enrolled actuary.
(g)
Enrolled actuary
means an individual who has satisfied the standards and qualifications as set forth in this part and who has been approved by the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (the Joint Board), or its designee, to perform actuarial services required under ERISA or regulations thereunder.
(h)
Actuarial services
means performance of actuarial valuations and preparation of any actuarial reports.
(i)
Certified responsible actuarial experience
means responsible actuarial experience of an individual that has been certified in writing by the individual's supervisor.
(j)
Certified responsible pension actuarial experience
means responsible pension actuarial experience of an individual that has been certified in writing by the individual's supervisor if the supervisor is an enrolled actuary. If the individual's supervisor is not an enrolled actuary, the pension actuarial experience must be certified in writing by both the supervisor and an enrolled actuary with knowledge of the individual's pension actuarial experience.
(k)
Enrollment cycle
means the three-year period from January 1, 2011, to December 31, 2013, and every three-year period thereafter.
[42 FR 39200, Aug. 3, 1977, as amended at 76 FR 17769, Mar. 31, 2011]
§ 901.2
Eligibility to perform actuarial services.
(a)
Enrolled actuary.
Subject to the standards of performance set forth in subpart C of this part, any individual who is an enrolled actuary as defined in § 901.1(g) may perform actuarial services required under ERISA or regulations thereunder. Where a corporation, partnership, or other entity is engaged to provide actuarial services, such services may be provided on its behalf only by an enrolled actuary who is an employee, partner or consultant.
(b)
Government officers and employees.
No officer or employee of the United States in the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government, or in any agency of the United States, including the District of Columbia, may perform actuarial services required under ERISA or regulations thereunder if such services would be in violation of 18 U.S.C. 205. No Member of Congress or Resident Commissioner (elect or serving) may perform such actuarial services if such services would be in violation of 18 U.S.C. 203 or 205.
(c)
Former government officers and employees
—(1)
Personal and substantial participation in the performance of actuarial services.
No former officer or employee of the executive branch of the United States Government, of any independent agency of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, shall perform actuarial services required under ERISA or regulations thereunder or aid or assist in the performance of such actuarial services, in regard to particular matters, involving a specific party or parties, in which the individual participated personally and substantially as such officer or employee.
(2)
Official responsibility.
No former officer or employee of the executive branch of the United States Government, of any independent agency of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, shall, within 1 year after his employment has ceased, perform actuarial services required under ERISA or regulations thereunder in regard to any particular matter involving a specific party or parties which was under the individual's official responsibility as an officer or employee of the Government at any time within a period of 1 year prior to the termination of such responsibility.

# Subpart B—Enrollment of Actuaries
§ 901.10
Application for enrollment.
(a)
Form.
As a requirement for enrollment, an applicant shall file with the Executive Director of the Joint Board a properly executed application on a form or forms specified by the Joint
Board, and shall agree to comply with these regulations and any other guidance as required by the Joint Board. A reasonable non-refundable fee may be charged for each application for enrollment filed.
(b)
Additional information.
The Joint Board or Executive Director, as a condition to consideration of an application for enrollment, may require the applicant to file additional information and to submit to written or oral examination under oath or otherwise.
(c)
Denial of application.
If the Joint Board proposes to deny an application for enrollment, the Executive Director shall notify the applicant in writing of the proposed denial and the reasons therefor, of his rights to request reconsideration, of the address to which such request should be made and the date by which such request must be made. The applicant may, within 30 days from the date of the written proposed denial, file a written request for reconsideration therefrom, together with his reasons in support thereof, to the Joint Board. The Joint Board may afford an applicant the opportunity to make a personal appearance before the Joint Board. A decision on the request for reconsideration shall be rendered by the Joint Board as soon as practicable. In the absence of a request for reconsideration within the aforesaid 30 days, the proposed denial shall, without further proceeding, constitute a final decision of denial by the Joint Board.
[42 FR 39200, Aug. 3, 1977, as amended at 76 FR 17769, Mar. 31, 2011]
§ 901.11
Enrollment procedures.
(a)
Enrollment.
The Joint Board shall enroll each applicant it determines has met the requirements of these regulations, and any other guidance as required by the Joint Board, and shall so notify the applicant. Subject to the provisions of subpart D of this part, an individual must renew his or her enrollment in the manner described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Enrollment certificate.
The Joint Board (or its designee) shall issue a certificate of enrollment to each actuary who is duly enrolled under this part.
(c)
Rosters
—(1)
Maintenance of rosters.
The Executive Director shall maintain rosters of—
(i) All actuaries who are duly enrolled under this part;
(ii) All individuals whose enrollment has been suspended or terminated; and
(iii) All individuals who are in inactive status.
(2)
Publication of rosters.
The Executive Director may publish any or all of the rosters, including display on the Joint Board's Web site, to the extent permitted by law.
(d)
Renewal of enrollment.
To maintain active enrollment to perform actuarial services under ERISA, each enrolled actuary is required to have his/her enrollment renewed as set forth herein.
(1) Each enrolled actuary must file an application for renewal of enrollment on the prescribed form no earlier than October 1, 2010, and no later than March 1, 2011, and no earlier than October 1 and no later than March 1 of every third year thereafter. If March 1 is a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, the due date shall be the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday.
(2) The effective date of renewal of enrollment for an individual who files a complete renewal application within the time period described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is the April 1 immediately following the date of application. The effective date of renewal of enrollment for an individual who files a complete renewal application after the due date described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is the later of the April 1 immediately following the due date of application and the date of the notice of renewal.
(3) Forms required for renewal may be obtained from the Executive Director.
(4) A reasonable non-refundable fee may be charged for each application for renewal of enrollment filed.
(e)
Condition for renewal: Continuing professional education.
To qualify for renewal of enrollment, an enrolled actuary must certify, on the form prescribed by the Executive Director, that he/she has completed the applicable minimum number of hours of continuing professional education credit
required by this paragraph (e) and satisfied the recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (j) of this section.
(1)
Transition rule for renewal of enrollment effective April 1, 2011.
(i) A minimum of 36 hours of continuing professional education credit must be completed between January 1, 2008 and December 31, 2010. Of the 36 hours, at least 18 must consist of core subject matter; the remainder may be non-core subject matter.
(ii) An individual who received initial enrollment in 2008 must complete 24 hours of continuing professional education by December 31, 2010. An individual who received initial enrollment in 2009 must complete 12 hours of continuing professional education by December 31, 2010. In either case, at least one-half of the applicable hours must consist of core subject matter; the remainder may consist of non-core subject matter. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(1)(ii), credit will be awarded for continuing professional education completed after January 1 of the year in which initial enrollment was received.
(iii) An individual who receives initial enrollment during 2010 is exempt from the continuing professional education requirements during 2010, but must file a timely application for renewal during the time period described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(2)
For renewal of enrollment effective April 1, 2014, and every third year thereafter.
(i) A minimum of 36 hours of continuing professional education credit must be completed between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2013, and between January 1 and December 31 for each three-year period subsequent thereto.
(ii) An individual who receives initial enrollment during the first or second year of an enrollment cycle must satisfy the following requirements by the end of the enrollment cycle: Those enrolled during the first year of an enrollment cycle must complete 24 hours of continuing education; those enrolled during the second year of an enrollment cycle must complete 12 hours of continuing education. At least one-half of the applicable hours must be comprised of core subject matter; the remainder may be comprised of non-core subject matter. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(2)(ii), credit will be awarded for continuing professional education completed after January 1 of the year in which initial enrollment was received.
(iii) An individual who receives initial enrollment during the third year of an enrollment cycle is exempt from the continuing education requirements until the next enrollment cycle, but must file a timely application for renewal.
(iv) For an individual who was initially enrolled before January 1, 2008 (and who has therefore completed at least one full enrollment cycle as of January 1, 2011), at least 12 hours of the 36 hours of continuing professional education required for each enrollment cycle must consist of core subject matter; the remainder may consist of non-core subject matter.
(v) For an individual who was initially enrolled on or after January 1, 2008, at least 18 hours of his or her 36 hours of continuing professional education required for the first full enrollment cycle must consist of core subject matter. Thereafter, for such individuals, for each subsequent enrollment cycle at least 12 hours of the 36 hours must consist of core subject matter. In each instance, the remainder may consist of non-core subject matter.
(vi) When core subject matter hours are required (including when an individual seeks to return to active status from inactive status), an individual must complete a minimum of two hours of continuing professional education credit relating to ethical standards, regardless of the total number of core hours required.
(f)
Qualifying continuing professional education
—(1)
In general.
To qualify for continuing professional education credit an enrolled actuary must complete his/her hours of continuing professional education credit under a qualifying program, within the meaning of paragraph (f)(2) of this section, consisting of core and/or non-core subject matter. In addition, a portion of the continuing professional education credit may be earned under the provisions of paragraph (g) of this section. In any event, no less than
1/3
of the total hours of continuing professional education credit required for an enrollment cycle
must be obtained by participation in a formal program or programs, within the meaning of paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.
(i) Core subject matter is program content and knowledge that is integral and necessary to the satisfactory performance of pension actuarial services and actuarial certifications under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. Such core subject matter includes the characteristics of actuarial cost methods under ERISA, actuarial assumptions, minimum funding standards, titles I, II, and IV of ERISA, requirements with respect to the valuation of plan assets, requirements for qualification of pension plans, maximum deductible contributions, tax treatment of distributions from qualified pension plans, excise taxes related to the funding of qualified pension plans and standards of performance (including ethical standards) for actuarial services. Core subject matter includes all materials included on the syllabi of any of the pension actuarial examinations offered by the Joint Board during the current enrollment cycle and the enrollment cycle immediately preceding the current enrollment cycle.
(ii) Non-core subject matter is program content designed to enhance the knowledge of an enrolled actuary in matters related to the performance of pension actuarial services. Examples include economics, computer programming, pension accounting, investment and finance, risk theory, communication skills, and business and general tax law.
(iii) The Joint Board may publish other topics or approve other topics which may be included in a qualifying program as core or non-core subject matter.
(iv) The same course of study cannot be used more than once within a given 36-month period to satisfy the continuing professional education requirements of these regulations. A program or session bearing the same or a similar title to a previous one may be used to satisfy the requirements of these regulations if the major content of the program or session differs substantively from the previous one.
(2)
Qualifying program
—(i)
In general.
A qualifying program is a course of learning that—
(A) Is conducted by a qualifying sponsor, within the meaning of paragraph (f)(3) of this section, who identifies the program as a qualifying program;
(B) Is developed by individual(s) qualified in the subject matter;
(C) Covers current subject matter;
(D) Includes written outlines or textbooks;
(E) Is taught by instructors, discussion leaders, and speakers qualified with respect to the course content;
(F) Includes means for evaluation by the Joint Board of technical content and presentation;
(G) Provides a certificate of completion, within the meaning of paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section, to each person who successfully completed the program; and
(H) Provides a certificate of instruction, within the meaning of paragraph (f)(3)(v) of this section, to each person who served an instructor, discussion leader, or speaker.
(ii)
Formal programs
—(A)
Participants.
Formal programs are programs that meet all of the requirements of this paragraph (f)(2)(ii) and paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section. Whether a program qualifies as a formal program is determined on a participant-by-participant basis. A qualifying program qualifies as a formal program with respect to a participant if the participant simultaneously participates in the program in the same physical location with at least two other participants engaged in substantive pension service, and the participants have the opportunity to interact with another individual qualified with respect to the course content who serves as an instructor, whether or not the instructor is in the same physical location. Groups of three or more participants who are in the same physical location may participate in a formal program in person or via the Internet, videoconferencing, or teleconferencing. If the qualifying program is pre-recorded, to qualify as a formal program, there must be a qualified individual who serves as the instructor and is
available to answer questions immediately following the pre-recorded program.
(B)
Instructor.
A qualifying program is a formal program with respect to the instructor only if the program is a formal program under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section with respect to at least three participants and the instructor is in the physical presence of at least three other individuals engaged in substantive pension service.
(3)
Qualifying sponsors
—(i)
In general.
Qualifying sponsors are organizations recognized by the Executive Director whose programs offer opportunities for continuing professional education in subject matter within the scope of this section.
(ii)
Recognition by the Executive Director.
An organization requesting qualifying sponsor status shall file a sponsor agreement request with the Executive Director and furnish information in support of such request as deemed necessary for approval by the Executive Director. Such information shall include sufficient information to establish that all programs designated as qualifying programs offered by the qualifying sponsor will satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Recognition as a qualifying sponsor by the Executive Director shall be effective when approved, unless the Executive Director provides that it shall be effective on a different date, and shall terminate at the end of the sponsor enrollment cycle. The Executive Director may publish the names of such sponsors on a periodic basis.
(iii)
Sponsor enrollment cycle
—(A)
Transition sponsor enrollment cycle.
The transition sponsor enrollment cycle is the period beginning on January 1, 2008 and ending December 31, 2011.
(B)
Subsequent sponsor enrollment cycles.
After the transition sponsor enrollment cycle, the sponsor enrollment cycle means the three-year period from January 1, 2012, to December 31, 2014, and every three-year period thereafter.
(iv)
Certificates of completion.
Upon verification of successful completion of a qualifying program, the program's qualifying sponsor shall furnish each individual who successfully completed the qualifying program with a certificate listing the following information:
(A) The name of the participant.
(B) The name of the qualifying sponsor.
(C) The title, location, and speaker(s) of each session attended.
(D) The dates of the program.
(E) The total credit hours earned, the total core and non-core credit hours earned, and how many of those hours relate to ethics.
(F) Whether or not the program is a formal program with respect to the participant.
(v)
Certificates of instruction.
The program's qualifying sponsor shall furnish to each instructor, discussion leader, or speaker, a certificate listing the following information:
(A) The name of the instructor, discussion leader, or speaker.
(B) The name of the qualifying sponsor.
(C) The title and location of the program.
(D) The dates of the program.
(E) The total credit hours earned and the total core and non-core credit hours earned for the program, and how many of those hours relate to ethics.
(F) Whether or not the program is a formal program with respect to the instructor.
(g)
Alternative means for completion of credit hours
—(1)
In general.
In addition to credit hours completed under paragraph (f) of this section, an enrolled actuary may be awarded continuing professional education credit under the provisions of this paragraph (g).
(2)
Serving as an instructor, discussion leader or speaker.
(i) Four credit hours (that is, 200 minutes) of continuing professional education credit will be awarded for each 50 minutes completed as an instructor, discussion leader, or speaker at a qualifying program which meets the continuing professional education requirements of paragraph (f) of this section. If the qualifying program is a formal program with respect to the instructor, only the time spent during the actual program is counted toward satisfaction of the formal program requirement.
(ii) The credit for instruction and preparation may not exceed 50 percent of the continuing professional education requirement for an enrollment cycle.
(iii) Presentation of the same material as an instructor, discussion leader, or speaker more than one time in any 36-month period will not qualify for continuing professional education credit. A program will not be considered to consist of the same material if a substantial portion of the content has been revised to reflect changes in the law or practices relative to the performance of pension actuarial service.
(iv) Credit as an instructor, discussion leader, or speaker will not be awarded to panelists, moderators, or others who are not required to prepare substantive subject matter for their portion of the program. However, such individuals may be awarded credit for attendance, provided the other provisions of this section are met.
(v) The nature of the subject matter will determine if credit will be of a core or non-core nature.
(3)
Credit for publications.
(i) Continuing professional education credit will be awarded for the creation of peer-reviewed materials for publication or distribution with respect to matters directly related to the continuing professional education requirements of this section. Credit will be awarded to the author, co-author, or a person listed as a major contributor.
(ii) One hour of credit will be allowed for each hour of preparation time of the material. It will be the responsibility of the person claiming the credit to maintain records to verify preparation time.
(iii) Publication or distribution may utilize any available technology for the dissemination of written, visual or auditory materials.
(iv) The materials must be available on reasonable terms for acquisition and use by all enrolled actuaries.
(v) The credit for the creation of materials may not exceed 25 percent of the continuing professional education requirement of any enrollment cycle.
(vi) The nature of the subject matter will determine if credit will be of a core or non-core nature.
(vii) Publication of the same material more than one time will not qualify for continuing professional education credit. A publication will not be considered to consist of the same material if a substantial portion has been revised to reflect changes in the law or practices relative to the performance of pension actuarial service.
(4)
Service on Joint Board advisory committee(s).
Continuing professional education credit may be awarded by the Joint Board for service on (any of) its advisory committee(s), to the extent that the Joint Board considers warranted by the service rendered.
(5)
Preparation of Joint Board examinations.
Continuing professional education credit may be awarded by the Joint Board for participation in drafting questions for use on Joint Board examinations or in pretesting its examinations, to the extent the Joint Board determines suitable. Such credit may not exceed 50 percent of the continuing professional education requirement for the applicable enrollment cycle.
(6)
Examinations sponsored by professional organizations or societies.
Individuals may earn continuing professional education credit for achieving a passing grade on proctored examinations sponsored by a professional organization or society recognized by the Joint Board. Such credit is limited to the number of hours scheduled for each examination and may be applied only as non-core credit provided the content of the examination is core or non-core. No credit may be earned for hours attributable to any content that is neither core nor non-core.
(7)
Joint Board pension examination.
Individuals may establish eligibility for renewal of enrollment for any enrollment cycle by—
(i) Achieving a passing score on the Joint Board pension examination, as described in § 901.12(d)(1)(i), administered under this part during the applicable enrollment cycle; and
(ii) Completing a minimum of 12 hours of qualifying continuing professional education by attending formal program(s) during the same applicable enrollment cycle. This option of satisfying the continuing professional education requirements is not available to those who receive initial enrollment during the enrollment cycle.
(h)
Measurement of continuing education course work.
(1) All continuing education programs will be measured in terms of credit hours. The shortest
recognized program will be one credit hour.
(2) A credit hour is 50 minutes of continuous participation in a program. Each session in a program must be at least one full credit hour,
i.e.
, 50 minutes. For example, a single-session program lasting 100 minutes will count as two credit hours, and a program comprised of three 75 minute sessions (225 minutes) constitutes four credit hours. However, at the end of an enrollment cycle, an individual may total the number of minutes of sessions of at least one credit hour in duration attended during the cycle and divide by fifty. For example, attending three 75 minute segments at two separate programs will accord an individual nine credit hours (450 minutes divided by 50) toward fulfilling the minimum number of continuing professional education hours. It will not be permissible to merge non-core hours with core hours.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Recordkeeping requirements
—(1)
Qualifying sponsors.
A qualifying sponsor must maintain records to verify that each program it sponsors is a qualifying program within the meaning of paragraph (f)(2) of this section, including the certificates of completion, certificates of instruction, and outlines and course material. In the case of programs of more than one session, records must be maintained to verify each session of the program that is completed by each participant. Records required to be maintained under this paragraph must be retained by the qualifying sponsor for a period of six years following the end of the sponsor enrollment cycle in which the program is held.
(2)
Enrolled actuaries
—(i)
Qualifying program credits as a participant.
To receive continuing professional education credit for completion of hours of continuing professional education under paragraph (f) of this section, an enrolled actuary must retain all certificates of completion evidencing completion of such hours for the three-year period following the end of the enrollment cycle in which the credits are earned.
(ii)
Qualifying program credits as an instructor, discussion leader, or speaker.
To receive continuing professional education credit for completion of hours earned under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, an enrolled actuary must retain all certificates of instruction evidencing completion of such hours for the three-year period following the end of the enrollment cycle in which the credits are earned.
(iii)
Credit for publications.
To receive continuing professional education credit for a publication under paragraph (g)(3) of this section, the following information must be maintained by the enrolled actuary for the three-year period following the end of the enrollment cycle in which the credits are earned:
(A) The name of the publisher.
(B) The title and author of the publication.
(C) A copy of the publication.
(D) The date of the publication.
(E) The total credit hours earned, and the total core and non-core credit hours earned, and how many of those hours relate to ethics.
(iv)
Other credits.
To receive continuing professional education credit for hours earned under paragraphs (g)(4) through (g)(7) of this section, an enrolled actuary must retain sufficient documentation to establish completion of such hours for the three-year period following the end of the enrollment cycle in which the credits are earned.
(k)
Waivers.
(1) Waiver from the continuing professional education requirements for a given period may be granted by the Executive Director only under extraordinary circumstances, and upon submission of sufficient evidence that every effort was made throughout the enrollment cycle to participate in one or more qualifying programs that would have satisfied the continuing professional education requirements.
(2) A request for waiver must be accompanied by appropriate documentation. The individual will be required to furnish any additional documentation or explanation deemed necessary by the Executive Director.
(3) The individual will be notified by the Executive Director of the disposition of the request for waiver. If the waiver is not approved, and the individual does not otherwise satisfy the
continuing professional education requirements within the allotted time, the individual will be placed on the roster of inactive enrolled individuals.
(4) Individuals seeking to rely on a waiver of the continuing professional education requirements must receive the waiver from the Executive Director before filing an application for renewal of enrollment.
(l)
Failure to comply.
(1) Compliance by an individual with the requirements of this part shall be determined by the Executive Director. An individual who applies for renewal of enrollment but who fails to meet the requirements of eligibility for renewal will be notified by the Executive Director at his/her last known address by first class mail. The notice will state the basis for the non-compliance and will provide the individual an opportunity to furnish in writing, within 60 days of the date of the notice, information relating to the matter. Such information will be considered by the Executive Director in making a final determination as to eligibility for renewal of enrollment.
(2) The Executive Director may require any individual, by first class mail sent to his/her mailing address of record with the Joint Board, to provide copies of any records required to be maintained under this section. The Executive Director may disallow any continuing professional education hours claimed if the individual concerned fails to comply with such requirements.
(3) An individual whose application for renewal is not approved may seek review of the matter by the Joint Board. A request for review and the reasons in support of the request must be filed with the Joint Board within 30 days of the date of the notice of failure to comply.
(4)
Inactive status
—(i)
Automatic placement on the inactive roster.
To remain on the roster of active enrolled actuaries, an enrolled actuary must submit a timely application for renewal showing satisfaction of the requirements for reenrollment, including completion of the required continuing professional education hours, within the appropriate time frame. The Executive Director will move an enrolled actuary who does not submit such an application for reenrollment from the roster of enrolled actuaries to the roster of inactive enrolled actuaries as of April 1 following the March 1 due date for the application. However, if an enrolled actuary completes the required number of continuing professional education hours after the close of the enrollment cycle, submits an application for reenrollment, and is informed by the Executive Director before April 1st that the enrollment has been renewed, then the Executive Director will not move such individual to the roster of inactive enrolled actuaries at that time.
(ii)
Placement on the inactive roster after notice and right to respond.
The Executive Director will move an enrolled actuary who does not submit a timely application of renewal that shows timely completion of the required continuing professional education to the inactive roster only after giving the enrolled actuary 60 days to respond as described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section.
(iii)
Length on time on inactive roster.
An individual may remain on the roster of inactive enrolled actuaries for a period up to three enrollment cycles from the date renewal would have been effective.
(iv)
Consequence of being on the inactive roster.
An individual in inactive status will be ineligible to perform pension actuarial services as an enrolled actuary under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. During such time in inactive status or at any other time an individual is ineligible to perform pension actuarial services as an enrolled actuary, the individual shall not in any manner, directly or indirectly, indicate he or she is so enrolled, or use the term “enrolled actuary,” the designation “E.A.,” or other form of reference to eligibility to perform pension actuarial services as an enrolled actuary.
(v)
Returning to active status.
An individual placed in inactive status may return to active status by filing an application for renewal of enrollment (with the appropriate fee) and providing evidence of the completion of all required continuing professional education hours and of satisfaction of any applicable requirements for qualifying experience under paragraph (l)(7) of
this section. If an application for return to active status is approved, the individual will be eligible to perform services as an enrolled actuary effective with the date the notice of approval is mailed to that individual by the Executive Director.
(5)
Time for return to active enrollment.
(i) An individual placed in inactive status must file an application for return to active enrollment, and satisfy the requirements for return to active enrollment as set forth in this section, within three enrollment cycles of being placed in inactive status. Otherwise, the name of such individual will be removed from the inactive enrollment roster and his/her enrollment will terminate.
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (l)(5)(i) of this section, an individual who is in inactive or retired status as of April 1, 2010, will be deemed to have been placed in inactive status on April 1, 2010.
(6) An individual in inactive status may satisfy the requirements for return to active enrollment at any time during his/her period of inactive enrollment. If only completion of the continuing professional education requirement is necessary, the application for return to active enrollment may be filed immediately upon such completion. If qualifying experience is also required, the application for return to active enrollment may not be filed until the completion of both the continuing professional education and qualifying experience requirements set forth in this subsection. Continuing professional education credits applied to meet the requirements for reenrollment under this paragraph (l)(6) may not be used to satisfy the requirements of the enrollment cycle in which the individual has been placed back on the active roster.
(7)
Continuing professional education requirements for return to active enrollment from inactive status.
(i) During the first inactive enrollment cycle; 36 hours of qualifying continuing professional education as set forth in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, without regard to paragraph (e)(2)(ii) or (e)(2)(iii) of this section, must be completed. Any hours of continuing professional education credit earned during the immediately prior enrollment cycle may be applied in satisfying this requirement.
(ii) During the second inactive enrollment cycle; four-thirds of the qualifying continuing professional education requirements as set forth in paragraph (e)(2) of this section (that is, 48 hours), without regard to paragraph (e)(2)(ii) or (e)(2)(iii) of this section, plus eighteen months of certified responsible pension actuarial experience, must be completed since the start of the first inactive enrollment cycle. Any hours of continuing professional education credit earned during the first inactive enrollment cycle may be applied in satisfying this requirement.
(iii) During the third inactive enrollment cycle: Five-thirds of the qualifying continuing professional education requirements as set forth in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, (that is, 60 hours), without regard to paragraph (e)(2)(ii) or (e)(2)(iii) of this section plus eighteen months of certified responsible pension actuarial experience, must be completed since the start of the second inactive enrollment cycle. Any hours of continuing professional education credit earned during the second inactive enrollment cycle may be applied in satisfying this requirement. No hours earned during the first inactive enrollment cycle may be applied in satisfying this requirement.
(8) An individual in inactive status remains subject to the jurisdiction of the Joint Board and/or the Department of the Treasury with respect to disciplinary matters.
(9) An individual who has certified in good faith that he/she has satisfied the continuing professional education requirements of this section will not be considered to be in non-compliance with such requirements on the basis of a program he/she has attended later being found inadequate or not in compliance with the requirements for continuing professional education. Such individual will be granted renewal, but the Executive Director may require such individual to remedy the resulting shortfall by earning replacement credit during the cycle in which renewal was granted or within a reasonable time period as determined by the Executive Director. For example, if six of the credit hours claimed were disallowed,
the individual may be required to present 42 credit hours instead of the minimum 36 credit hours to qualify for renewal related to the next cycle.
(m)
Renewal while under suspension or disbarment.
An individual who is ineligible to perform actuarial services and/or to practice before the Internal Revenue Service by virtue of disciplinary action is required to meet the requirements for renewal of enrollment during the period of such ineligibility.
(n)
Verification.
The Executive Director or his/her designee may request and review the continuing professional education records of an enrolled actuary, including programs attended, in a manner deemed appropriate to determine compliance with the requirements and standards for the renewal of enrollment as provided in this section. The Executive Director may also request and review the records of any qualifying sponsor in a manner deemed appropriate to determine compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(3) and (j)(1) of this section.
(o)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of the rules of paragraph (l)(7) of this section and the effective date of an enrolled actuary's renewal:

# Example 1.
Individual E, who was initially enrolled before January 1, 2008, completes 12 hours of core continuing professional education credit and 24 hours of non-core continuing professional education credit between January 1, 2011, and December 31, 2013. E files a complete application for reenrollment on February 28, 2014. E's reenrollment is effective as of April 1, 2014.

# Example 2.
Individual F, who was initially enrolled before January 1, 2008, also completes 12 hours of core continuing professional education credit and 24 hours of non-core continuing professional education credit between January 1, 2011, and December 31, 2013. However, F does not file an application for reenrollment until March 20, 2014. The Joint Board notifies F that it has granted F's application on June 25, 2014. Accordingly, effective April 1, 2014, F is placed on the roster of inactive enrolled actuaries. F returns to active status as of June 25, 2014. F is ineligible to perform pension actuarial services as an enrolled actuary under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code from April 1 through June 24, 2014.

# Example 3.
Individual G, who was initially enrolled before January 1, 2008, completes only 8 hours of core continuing professional education credit and 24 hours of non-core continuing professional education credit between January 1, 2011, and December 31, 2013. G completes another 6 hours of core continuing professional education on January 15, 2014, and files an application for return to active status on January 20, 2014. G's application shows the timely completion of 32 hours of continuing professional education plus the additional 4 hours of continuing professional education earned after the end of the enrollment cycle. The Joint Board notifies G that it has granted the application on April 20, 2014. Accordingly, effective April 1, 2014, G is placed on the roster of inactive enrolled actuaries. G returns to active status as of April 20, 2014. G is ineligible to perform pension actuarial services as an enrolled actuary under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code from April 1 through April 19, 2014. Of the 6 hours of continuing professional education earned by G on January 15, 2014, only 2 hours may be applied to the enrollment cycle that ends December 31, 2016.

# Example 4.
(i) Individual H, who was initially enrolled before January 1, 2008, completes 5 hours of core continuing professional education credit and 10 hours of non-core continuing professional education credit between January 1, 2011, and December 31, 2013. Accordingly, effective April 1, 2014, H is placed on the roster of inactive enrolled actuaries and is ineligible to perform pension actuarial services as an enrolled actuary under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code.
(ii) H completes 7 hours of core continuing professional education credit and 14 hours of noncore continuing professional education credit between January 1, 2014, and May 24, 2016. Because H has completed 12 hours of core continuing professional education and 24 hours of non-core continuing professional education during the last active enrollment period and the initial period when on inactive status, H has satisfied the requirements for reenrollment during the first inactive cycle. Accordingly, H may file an application for return to active enrollment on May 24, 2016. If this application is approved, H will be eligible to perform pension actuarial services as an enrolled actuary under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, effective with the date of such approval.
(iii) Because H used the 21 hours of continuing professional education credit earned after January 1, 2014, for return from inactive status, H may not apply any of these 21 hours of core and non-core continuing professional education credits towards the requirements for renewed enrollment effective April 1, 2017. Accordingly, H must complete an additional 36 hours of continuing professional education (12 core and 24 non-core) prior to December 31, 2016, to be eligible for renewed enrollment effective April 1, 2017.

# Example 5.
(i) The facts are the same as in
Example 4
except H completes 2 hours of core continuing professional education credit and
8 hours of non-core continuing professional education credit between January 1, 2014, and December 31, 2016. Thus, because H did not fulfill the requirements for return to active status during his first inactive cycle, H must satisfy the requirements of paragraph (l)(7)(ii) of this section in order to return to active status.
(ii) Accordingly, in order to be eligible to file an application for return to active status on or before December 31, 2019, H must complete an additional 38 hours of continuing professional education credit (of which at least 14 hours must consist of core subject matter) between January 1, 2017, and December 31, 2019, and have 18 months of certified responsible pension actuarial experience during the period beginning on January 1, 2014.
(iii) Note that the 5 hours of core continuing professional education credit and the 10 hours of non-core continuing professional education credit that H completes between January 1, 2011, and December 31, 2013, are not counted toward H's return to active status and are also not taken into account toward the additional hours of continuing professional education credit that H must complete between January 1, 2017, and December 31, 2019, in order to apply for renewal of enrollment effective April 1, 2020.

# Example 6.
(i) The facts are the same as in
Example 4
except H completes 2 hours of core continuing professional education credit and 8 hours of non-core continuing professional education credit between January 1, 2014, and December 31, 2016, and 12 hours of core continuing professional education credit and 24 hours of non-core continuing professional education credit between January 1, 2017, and December 31, 2019. Thus, because H did not fulfill the requirements for return to active status during his first or second inactive cycles, H must satisfy the requirements of paragraph (l)(7)(iii) of this section in order to return to active status.
(ii) Accordingly, in order to be eligible to file an application for return to active status on or before December 31, 2022, H must complete an additional 24 hours of continuing professional education credit (of which, at least 8 hours must consist of core subject matter) between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2022, and have at least 18 months of certified responsible pension actuarial experience during the period beginning on January 1, 2017.
(iii) Note that the total of 15 hours of continuing professional education credit that H completes between January 1, 2011, and December 31, 2013, as well as the 10 hours of continuing professional education credit between January 1, 2014, and December 31, 2016, are not counted toward H's return to active status and are not taken into account toward the additional hours of continuing professional education credit that H must complete between January 1, 2020, and December 31, 2022, in order to be eligible to file an application for renewal of enrollment active status effective April 1, 2023.

# Example 7.
(i) Individual J, who was initially enrolled July 1, 2012, completes 1 hour of core continuing professional education credit and 2 hours of non-core continuing professional education credit between January 1, 2012, and December 31, 2013. Accordingly, effective April 1, 2014, J is placed on the roster of inactive enrolled actuaries and is ineligible to perform pension actuarial services as an enrolled actuary under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code.
(ii) J completes 5 hours of core continuing professional education credit and 4 hours of non-core continuing professional education credit between January 1, 2014, and October 6, 2014. Because J did not complete the required 12 hours of continuing professional education (of which at least 6 hours must consist of core subject matter) during J's initial enrollment cycle, J is not eligible to file an application for a return to active enrollment on October 6, 2014, notwithstanding the fact that had J completed such hours between January 1, 2012, and December 31, 2013, J would have satisfied the requirements for renewed enrollment effective April 1, 2014.
(iii) Accordingly, J must complete an additional 24 hours of continuing professional education (of which at least 12 hours must consist of core subject matter) during his/her first inactive enrollment cycle before applying for renewal of enrollment.

# Example 8.
The facts are the same as in
Example 7
except that J completes 17 hours of core continuing professional education credit and 16 hours of non-core continuing professional education credit between January 1, 2014, and February 12, 2015. Accordingly, because as of February 12, 2015, J satisfied the continuing professional education requirements as set forth in paragraph (e)(2) of this section without regard to paragraph (e)(2)(ii) thereof, J may file an application for return to active enrollment status on February 12, 2015.
(p) With the exception of paragraphs (e)(1) and (f)(3)(iii) of this section, this section applies to the enrollment cycle beginning January 1, 2011, and all subsequent enrollment cycles.
[42 FR 39200, Aug. 3, 1977, as amended at 53 FR 34484, Sept. 7, 1988; 76 FR 17769, Mar. 31, 2011; 76 FR 81363, Dec. 28, 2011]
§ 901.12
Eligibility for enrollment.
(a)
In general.
An individual applying to be an enrolled actuary must fulfill
the experience requirement of paragraph (b) of this section, the basic actuarial knowledge requirement of paragraph (c) of this section, and the pension actuarial knowledge requirement of paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Qualifying experience.
Within the 10-year period immediately preceding the date of application, the applicant shall have completed either—
(1) A minimum of 36 months of certified responsible pension actuarial experience; or
(2) A minimum of 60 months of certified responsible actuarial experience, including at least 18 months of certified responsible pension actuarial experience.
(c)
Basic actuarial knowledge.
The applicant shall demonstrate knowledge of basic actuarial mathematics and methodology by one of the following:
(1)
Joint Board basic examination.
Successful completion, to a score satisfactory to the Joint Board, of an examination, prescribed by the Joint Board, in basic actuarial mathematics and methodology including compound interest, principles of life contingencies, commutation functions, multiple-decrement functions, and joint life annuities.
(2)
Organization basic examinations.
Successful completion, to a score satisfactory to the Joint Board, of one or more proctored examinations which are given by an actuarial organization and which the Joint Board has determined cover substantially the same subject areas, have at least a comparable level of difficulty, and require at least the same competence as the Joint Board basic examination referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3)
Qualifying formal education.
Receipt of a bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college or university after the satisfactory completion of a course of study:
(i) In which the major area of concentration was actuarial mathematics, or
(ii) Which included at least as many semester hours or quarter hours each in mathematics, statistics, actuarial mathematics and other subjects as the Board determines represent equivalence to paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.
(d)
Pension actuarial knowledge.
(1) The applicant shall demonstrate pension actuarial knowledge by one of the following:
(i)
Joint Board pension examination.
Successful completion, within the 10-year period immediately preceding the date of the application, to a score satisfactory to the Joint Board, of an examination prescribed by the Joint Board in actuarial mathematics and methodology relating to pension plans, including the provisions of ERISA relating to the minimum funding requirements and allocation of assets on plan termination.
(ii)
Organization pension examinations.
Successful completion, within the 10-year period immediately preceding the date of the application, to a score satisfactory to the Joint Board, of one or more proctored examinations which are given by an actuarial organization and which the Joint Board has determined cover substantially the same subject areas, have at least a comparable level of difficulty, and require at least the same competence as the Joint Board pension examination referred to in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For purposes of this section, the date of successful completion of an examination is generally the date a candidate sits for the examination, provided that the candidate receives a passing grade on that examination. However, an applicant who sat for an examination prior to the effective date of these regulations will be deemed to have sat for such examination on the effective date.
(e)
Form; fee.
An applicant who wishes to take an examination administered by the Joint Board under paragraph (c)(1) or (d)(1) of this section shall file an application on a form prescribed by the Joint Board. Such application shall be accompanied by payment in the amount set forth on the application form. The amount represents a fee charged to each applicant for examination and is designed to cover the costs for the administration of the examination. The fee shall be retained whether or not the applicant successfully completes the examination or is enrolled.
(f)
Denial of enrollment.
An applicant may be denied enrollment if:
(1) The Joint Board finds that the applicant, during the 15-year period immediately preceding the date of application and on or after the applicant's eighteenth birthday has engaged in disreputable conduct. The term disreputable conduct includes, but is not limited to:
(i) An adjudication, decision, or determination by a court of law, a duly constituted licensing or accreditation authority (other than the Joint Board), or by any federal or state agency, board, commission, hearing examiner, administrative law judge, or other official administrative authority, that the applicant has engaged in conduct evidencing fraud, dishonesty or breach of trust.
(ii) Giving false or misleading information, or participating in any way in the giving of false or misleading information, to the Department of the Treasury or the Department of Labor or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any officer or employee thereof in connection with any matter pending or likely to be pending before them, knowing such information to be false or misleading.
(iii) Willfully failing to make a Federal tax return in violation of the revenue laws of the United States, or evading, attempting to evade, or participating in any way in evading or attempting to evade any federal tax or payment thereof, knowingly counseling or suggesting to a client or prospective client an illegal plan to evade federal taxes or payment thereof, or concealing assets of himself or another to evade federal taxes or payment thereof.
(iv) Directly or indirectly attempting to influence, or offering or agreeing to attempt to influence, the official action of any officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury or the Department of Labor or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation by the use of threats, false accusations, duress or coercion, by the offer of any special inducement or promise of advantage or by the bestowing of any gift, favor, or thing of value.
(v) Disbarment or suspension from practice as an actuary, attorney, certified public accountant, public accountant, or an enrolled agent by any duly constituted authority of any state, possession, territory, Commonwealth, the District of Columbia, by any Federal Court of record, or by the Department of the Treasury.
(vi) Contemptuous conduct in connection with matters before the Department of the Treasury, or the Department of Labor, or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation including the use of abusive language, making false accusations and statements knowing them to be false, or circulating or publishing malicious or libelous matter.
(2) The applicant has been convicted of any of the offenses referred to in section 411 of ERISA.
(3) The applicant has submitted false or misleading information on an application for enrollment to perform actuarial services or in any oral or written information submitted in connection therewith or in any report presenting actuarial information to any person, knowing the same to be false or misleading.
(Sec. 3042, subtitle C, title 3, Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 1002, 29 U.S.C. 1241, 1242), and the Act of August 31, 1951, ch. 376, title V, section 501, 65 Stat. 290, 31 U.S.C. 483a)
[44 FR 11751, Mar. 2, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 68458, Nov. 29, 1979. Redesignated and amended at 76 FR 17774, Mar. 31, 2011]

# Subpart C—Standards of Performance for Enrolled Actuaries
§ 901.20
Standards of performance of actuarial services.
In the discharge of duties required by ERISA of enrolled actuaries with respect to any plan to which the Act applies:
(a)
In general.
An enrolled actuary shall undertake an actuarial assignment only when qualified to do so.
(b)
Professional duty.
(1) An enrolled actuary shall perform actuarial services only in a manner that is fully in accordance with all of the duties and requirements for such persons under applicable law and consistent with relevant generally accepted standards for professional responsibility and ethics.
(2) An enrolled actuary shall not perform actuarial services for any person
or organization which he/she believes, or has reasonable grounds to believe, may utilize his/her services in a fraudulent manner or in a manner inconsistent with law.
(c)
Advice or explanations.
An enrolled actuary shall provide to the plan administrator upon appropriate request, supplemental advice or explanation relative to any report signed or certified by such enrolled actuary.
(d)
Conflicts of interest.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, an enrolled actuary shall not perform actuarial services for a client if the representation involves a conflict of interest. A conflict of interest exists if—
(i) The representation of one client will be directly adverse to another client; or
(ii) There is a significant risk that the representation of one or more clients will be materially limited by the enrolled actuary's responsibilities to another client, a former client, or by a personal interest of the enrolled actuary.
(2) Notwithstanding the existence of a conflict of interest under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the enrolled actuary may represent a client if—
(i) The enrolled actuary reasonably believes that he or she will be able to provide competent and diligent representation to each affected client;
(ii) The representation is not prohibited by law; and
(iii) Each affected client waives the conflict of interest and gives informed consent at the time the existence of the conflict of interest is known by the enrolled actuary.
(e)
Assumptions, calculations and recommendations.
(1) The enrolled actuary shall exercise due care, skill, prudence and diligence when performing actuarial services under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. In particular, in the course of preparing a report or certificate stating actuarial costs or liabilities, the enrolled actuary shall ensure that—
(i) Except as mandated by law, the actuarial assumptions are reasonable individually and in combination, and the actuarial cost method and the actuarial method of valuation of assets are appropriate;
(ii) The calculations are accurately carried out and properly documented; and
(iii) The report, any recommendations, and any supplemental advice or explanation relative to the report reflect the results of the calculations.
(2) An enrolled actuary shall include in any report or certificate stating actuarial costs or liabilities, a statement or reference describing or clearly identifying the data, any material inadequacies therein and the implications thereof, and the actuarial methods and assumptions employed.
(f)
Due diligence.
(1) An enrolled actuary must exercise due diligence—
(i) In preparing or assisting in the preparation of, approving, and filing tax returns, documents, affidavits, and other papers relating to the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any other applicable Federal or State entity;
(ii) In determining the correctness of oral or written representations made by the enrolled actuary to the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any other applicable Federal or State entity; and
(iii) In determining the correctness of oral or written representations made by the enrolled actuary to clients.
(2) An enrolled actuary advising a client to take a position on any document to be filed with the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any other applicable Federal or State entity (or preparing or signing such a return or document) generally may rely in good faith without verification upon information furnished by the client. The enrolled actuary may not, however, ignore the implications of information furnished to, or actually known by, the enrolled actuary, and must make reasonable inquiries if the information as furnished appears to be incorrect, inconsistent with an important fact or another factual assumption, or incomplete.
(g)
Solicitations regarding actuarial services.
An enrolled actuary may not in any way use or participate in the use of any form of public communication or private solicitation related to
the performance of actuarial services containing a false, fraudulent, or coercive statement or claim, or a misleading or deceptive statement or claim. An enrolled actuary may not make, directly or indirectly, an uninvited written or oral solicitation of employment related to actuarial services if the solicitation violates Federal or State law, nor may such person employ, accept employment in partnership form, corporate form, or any other form, or share fees with, any individual or entity who so solicits. Any lawful solicitation related to the performance of actuarial services made by or on behalf of an enrolled actuary must clearly identify the solicitation as such and, if applicable, identify the source of the information used in choosing the recipient.
(h)
Prompt disposition of pending matters.
An enrolled actuary may not unreasonably delay the prompt disposition of any matter before the Internal Revenue Service, the Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any other applicable Federal or State entity.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Return of client's records.
(1) In general, an enrolled actuary must, at the request of a client, promptly return any and all records of the client that are necessary for the client to comply with his or her legal obligations. The enrolled actuary may retain copies of the records returned to a client. The existence of a dispute over fees generally does not relieve the enrolled actuary of his or her responsibility under this section. Nevertheless, if applicable State law allows or permits the retention of a client's records by an enrolled actuary in the case of a dispute over fees for services rendered, the enrolled actuary need only return those records that must be attached to the client's required forms under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The enrolled actuary, however, must provide the client with reasonable access to review and copy any additional records of the client retained by the enrolled actuary under State law that are necessary for the client to comply with his or her obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code.
(2) For purposes of this section, records of the client include all documents or written or electronic materials provided to the enrolled actuary, or obtained by the enrolled actuary in the course of the enrolled actuary's representation of the client, that preexisted the retention of the enrolled actuary by the client. The term “records of the client” also includes materials that were prepared by the client or a third party (not including an employee or agent of the enrolled actuary) at any time and provided to the enrolled actuary with respect to the subject matter of the representation. The term “records of the client” also includes any return, claim for refund, schedule, affidavit, appraisal or any other document prepared by the enrolled actuary, or his or her employee or agent, that was presented to the client with respect to a prior representation if such document is necessary for the taxpayer to comply with his or her current obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The term “records of the client” does not include any return, claim for refund, schedule, affidavit, appraisal or any other document prepared by the enrolled actuary or the enrolled actuary's firm, employees or agents if the enrolled actuary is withholding such document pending the client's performance of its contractual obligation to pay fees with respect to such document.
(k)
Notification.
An enrolled actuary shall provide written notification of the non-filing of any actuarial document he/she has signed upon discovery of the non-filing. Such notification shall be made to the office of the Internal Revenue Service, the Department of Labor, or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation where such document should have been filed.
(l) The rules of this section apply to all actuarial services and related acts performed on or after May 2, 2011.
[40 FR 18776, Apr. 30, 1975, as amended at 43 FR 39757, Sept. 7, 1978; 76 FR 17775, Mar. 31, 2011]

# Subpart D—Suspension or Termination of Enrollment

# Authority:
Sec. 3042(b), ERISA, 29 U.S.C. 1242(b).

# Source:
43 FR 39757, Sept. 7, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 901.30
Authority to suspend or terminate enrollment.
Under section 3042(b) of ERISA the Joint Board may, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, suspend or terminate the enrollment of an enrolled actuary if the Joint Board finds that such enrolled actuary
(a) Has failed to discharge his/her duties under ERISA, or
(b) Does not satisfy the requirements for enrollment in effect at the time of his/her enrollment.
§ 901.31
Grounds for suspension or termination of enrollment.
(a)
Failure to satisfy requirements for enrollment.
The enrollment of an actuary may be terminated if it is found that the actuary did not satisfy the eligibility requirements set forth in § 901.11 or § 901.12.
(b)
Failure to discharge duties.
The enrollment of an actuary may be suspended or terminated if it is found that the actuary, following enrollment, failed to discharge his/her duties under ERISA. Such duties include those set forth in § 901.20.
(c)
Disreputable conduct.
The enrollment of an actuary may be suspended or terminated if it is found that the actuary has, at any time after he/she applied for enrollment, engaged in any conduct set forth in § 901.12(f) or other conduct evidencing fraud, dishonesty, or breach of trust. Such other conduct includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Conviction of any criminal offense under the laws of the United States (including section 411 of ERISA, 29 U.S.C. 1111), any State thereof, the District of Columbia, or any territory or possession of the United States, which evidences fraud, dishonesty, or breach of trust.
(2) Knowingly filing false or altered documents, affidavits, financial statements or other papers on matters relating to employee benefit plans or actuarial services.
(3) Knowingly making false or misleading representations, either orally or in writing, on matters relating to employee benefit plans or actuarial services, or knowingly failing to disclose information relative to such matters.
(4) The use of false or misleading representations with intent to deceive a client or prospective client, or of intimations that the actuary is able to obtain special consideration or action from an officer or employee of any agency or court authorized to determine the validity of pension plans under ERISA.
(5) Willful violation of any of the regulations contained in this part.
[43 FR 39757, Sept. 7, 1978, as amended at 76 FR 17776, Mar. 31, 2011]
§ 901.32
Receipt of information concerning enrolled actuaries.
If an officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or a member of the Joint Board has reason to believe that an enrolled actuary has violated any provision of this part, or if any such officer, employee or member receives information to that effect, he/she may make a written report thereof, which report or a copy thereof shall be forwarded to the Executive Director. If any other person has information of any such violation, he/she may make a report thereof to the Executive Director.
[43 FR 39757, Sept. 7, 1978, as amended at 76 FR 17776, Mar. 31, 2011]
§ 901.33
Initiation of proceeding.
Whenever the Executive Director has reason to believe that an enrolled actuary has violated any provision of the laws or regulations governing enrollment, such individual may be reprimanded or a proceeding may be initiated for the suspension or termination of such individual's enrollment. A reprimand as used in this paragraph is a
statement informing the enrolled actuary that, in the opinion of the Executive Director, his/her conduct is in violation of the regulations and admonishing the enrolled actuary that repetition of the conduct occasioning the reprimand may result in the institution of a proceeding for the suspension or termination of the actuary's enrollment. A proceeding for suspension or termination of enrollment shall be initiated by a complaint naming the respondent actuary, signed by the Executive Director and filed in the Executive Director's office. Except in cases where the nature of the proceeding or the public interest does not permit, a proceeding will not be initiated under this section until the facts which may warrant such a proceeding have been called to the attention of the actuary in writing and he/she has been given an opportunity to respond to the allegations of misconduct.
§ 901.34
Conferences.
(a)
In general.
The Executive Director may confer with an enrolled actuary concerning allegations of his/her misconduct whether or not a proceeding for suspension or termination has been initiated against him/her. If the conference results in agreement as to certain facts or other matters in connection with such a proceeding, such agreement may be entered in the record at the request of the actuary or the Executive Director.
(b)
Voluntary suspension or termination of enrollment.
An enrolled actuary, in order to avoid the initiation or conclusion of a suspension or termination proceeding, may offer his/her consent to suspension or termination of enrollment or may offer his/her resignation. The Executive Director may accept the offered resignation or may suspend or terminate enrollment in accordance with the consent offered.
§ 901.35
Contents of complaint.
(a)
Charges.
A complaint initiating a suspension or termination proceeding shall describe the allegations which are the basis for the proceeding, and fairly inform the respondent of the charges against him/her.
(b)
Answer.
In the complaint, or in a separate paper attached to the complaint, notice shall be given of the place at, and time within which the respondent shall file an answer, which time shall not be less than 15 days from the date of service of the complaint. Notice shall be given that a decision by default may be rendered against the respondent if an answer is not filed as required.
§ 901.36
Service of complaint and other papers.
(a)
Complaint.
The complaint or a copy thereof may be served upon the respondent by certified mail, or first-class mail as hereinafter provided, by delivering it to the respondent, or the respondent's attorney or agent of record either in person or by leaving it at the office or place of business of the respondent, the attorney or agent, or in any other manner which may have been agreed to in writing by the respondent. Where the service is by certified mail, the return post office receipt signed by or on behalf of the respondent shall be proof of service. If the certified matter is not claimed or accepted by the respondent and is returned undelivered, complete service may be made upon the respondent by mailing the complaint to him/her by first-class mail, addressed to the respondent at the last address known to the Executive Director. If service is made upon the respondent or his/her attorney or agent in person or by leaving the complaint at the office or place of business of the respondent, attorney, or agent, the verified return by the person making service, setting forth the manner of service, shall be proof of such service.
(b)
Service of papers other than complaint.
Any paper other than the complaint may be served upon the respondent as provided in paragraph (a) of this section or by mailing the paper by first-class mail to the respondent at the last address known to the Executive Director or by mailing the paper by first-class mail to the respondent's attorney or agent. Such mailing shall constitute complete service. Notices may also be served upon the respond- ent or his/her attorney or agent by telegraph.
(c)
Filing of papers.
Whenever the filing of a paper is required or permitted
in connection with a suspension or termination proceeding, and the place of filing is not specified by this subpart or by rule or order of the Administrative Law Judge, the paper shall be filed with the Executive Director of the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, Treasury Department, Washington, D.C. 20220. All papers shall be filed in duplicate.
§ 901.37
Answer.
(a)
Filing.
The respondent's answer shall be filed in writing within the time specified in the complaint or notice of initiation of the proceeding, unless, on application, the time is extended by the Executive Director or the Administrative Law Judge. The answer shall be filed in duplicate with the Executive Director.
(b)
Contents.
The answer shall contain a statement of facts which constitute the grounds of defense and it shall specifically admit or deny each allegation set forth in the complaint, except that the respondent shall not deny a material allegation in the complaint which he/she knows to be true, or state that he/she is without sufficient information to form a belief when in fact the respondent possesses such information. The respondent may also state affirmatively special matters of defense.
(c)
Failure to deny or answer allegations in the complaint.
Every allegation in the complaint which is not denied in the answer shall be deemed to be admitted and may be considered as proven, and no further evidence in respect of such allegation need be adduced at a hearing. Failure to file an answer within the time prescribed in the notice to the respondent, except as the time for answer is extended by the Executive Director or the Administrative Law Judge, shall constitute an admission of the allegations of the complaint and a waiver of hearing, and the Administrative Law Judge may make a decision by default, without a hearing or further procedure.
§ 901.38
Supplemental charges.
If it appears to the Executive Director that the respondent in his/her answer falsely and in bad faith denies a material allegation of fact in the complaint or states that the respondent has no knowledge sufficient to form a belief when he/she in fact possesses such knowledge, or if it appears that the respondent has knowingly introduced false testimony during proceedings for suspension or termination of his/her enrollment, the Executive Director may file supplemental charges against the respondent. Such supplemental charges may be tried with other charges in the case, provided the respondent is given due notice thereof and is afforded an opportunity to prepare a defense thereto.
§ 901.39
Reply to answer.
No reply to the respondent's answer shall be required, but the Executive Director may file a reply at his/her discretion or at the request of the Administrative Law Judge.
§ 901.40
Proof; variance; amendment of pleadings.
In the case of a variance between the allegations in a pleading and the evidence adduced in support of the pleading, the Administrative Law Judge may order or authorize amendment of the pleading to conform to the evidence, provided that the party who would otherwise be prejudiced by the amendment is given reasonable opportunity to meet the allegations of the pleading as amended. The Administrative Law Judge shall make findings on any issue presented by the pleadings as so amended.
§ 901.41
Motions and requests.
Motions and requests may be filed with the Executive Director or with the Administrative Law Judge.
§ 901.42
Representation.
A respondent or proposed respondent may appear at conference or hearing in person or may be represented by counsel or other representative. The Executive Director may be represented by an attorney or other employee of the Treasury Department.
§ 901.43
Administrative Law Judge.
(a)
Appointment.
An administrative law judge, appointed as provided by section 11 of the Administrative Procedure Act, 60 Stat. 244 (5 U.S.C. 3105),
shall conduct proceedings upon complaints for the suspension or termination of enrolled actuaries.
(b)
Powers of Administrative Law Judge.
Among other powers, the Administrative Law Judge shall have authority, in connection with any suspension or termination proceeding of an enrolled actuary, to do the following:
(1) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) Make rulings upon motions and requests, which may not be appealed before the close of a hearing except at the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge;
(3) Determine the time and place of hearing and regulate its course of conduct;
(4) Adopt rules of procedure and modify the same as required for the orderly disposition of proceedings;
(5) Rule upon offers of proof, receive relevant evidence, and examine witnesses;
(6) Take or authorize the taking of depositions;
(7) Receive and consider oral or written argument on facts or law;
(8) Hold or provide for the holding of conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues by consent of the parties;
(9) Perform such acts and take such measures as are necessary or appropriate to the efficient conduct of any proceeding; and
(10) Make initial decisions.
§ 901.44
Hearings.
(a)
In general.
The Administrative Law Judge shall preside at the hearing on a complaint for the suspension or termination of an enrolled actuary. Hearings shall be stenographically recorded and transcribed and the testimony of witnesses shall be taken under oath or affirmation. Hearings will be conducted pursuant to section 7 of the Administrative Procedure Act, 60 Stat. 241 (5 U.S.C. 556).
(b)
Failure to appear.
If either party to the proceeding fails to appear at the hearing, after due notice thereof has been sent to the parties, the Administrative Law Judge may make a decision against the absent party by default.
§ 901.45
Evidence.
(a)
In general.
The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law and equity are not controlling in hearings on complaints for the suspension or the termination of the enrollment of enrolled actuaries. However, the Administrative Law Judge shall exclude evidence which is irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious.
(b)
Depositions.
The deposition of any witness taken pursuant to § 901.46 may be admitted.
(c)
Proof of documents.
Official documents, records, and papers of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries or the Office of the Executive Director of the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries shall be admissible into evidence without the production of an officer or employee to authenticate them. Any such documents, records, and papers may be evidenced by a copy attested to or identified by an officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, or the Office of the Executive Director of the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, as the case may be.
(d)
Exhibits.
If any document, record, or other paper is introduced into evidence as an exhibit, the Administrative Law Judge may authorize the withdrawal of the exhibit subject to any conditions which he/she deems proper.
(e)
Objections.
Objections to evidence shall state the grounds relied upon, and the record shall not include argument thereon, except as ordered by the Administrative Law Judge. Rulings on such objections shall be part of the record. No exception to the ruling is necessary to preserve the rights of the parties.
§ 901.46
Depositions.
Depositions for use at a hearing may, with the written approval of the Administrative Law Judge, be taken by either the Executive Director or the respondent or their duly authorized representatives. Depositions may be taken upon oral or written interrogatories,
upon not less than 10 days written notice to the other party, before any officer duly authorized to administer an oath for general purposes or before an officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or the Joint Board who is authorized to administer an oath. Such notice shall state the names of the witnesses and the time and place where the depositions are to be taken. The requirement of 10 days notice may be waived by the parties in writing, and depositions may then be taken from the persons and at the times and places mutually agreed upon by the parties. When a deposition is taken upon written interrogatories, any cross-examination shall be upon written interrogatories. Copies of such written interrogatories shall be served upon the other party with the notice, and the copies of any written cross-interrogatories shall be mailed or delivered to the opposing party at least five days before the date of taking the depositions, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise. A party upon whose behalf a deposition is taken must file it with the Administrative Law Judge and serve one copy upon the opposing party. Expenses in the reporting of depositions shall be borne by the party at whose instance the deposition is taken.
§ 901.47
Transcript.
In cases where the hearing is stenographically reported by a Government contract reporter, copies of the transcript may be obtained from the reporter at rates not to exceed the maximum rates fixed by contract between the Government and the reporter. Where the hearing is stenographically reported by a regular employee of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or the Joint Board, a copy thereof will be supplied to the respondent either without charge or upon the payment of a reasonable fee. Copies of exhibits introduced at the hearing or at the taking of depositions will be supplied to parties upon the payment of a reasonable fee (31 U.S.C. 9701).
[43 FR 39757, Sept. 7, 1978, as amended at 76 FR 17776, Mar. 31, 2011]
§ 901.48
Proposed findings and conclusions.
Except in cases where the respondent has failed to answer the complaint or where a party has failed to appear at the hearing, the Administrative Law Judge, before making his/her decision, shall give the parties a reasonable opportunity to submit proposed findings and conclusions and supporting reasons therefor.
§ 901.49
Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.
As soon as practicable after the conclusion of a hearing and the receipt of any proposed findings and conclusions timely submitted by the parties, the Administrative Law Judge shall make the initial decision in the case. The decision should be based solely upon the pleading, the testimony and exhibits received in evidence at the hearing or specifically authorized to be subsequently submitted under the applicable laws and regulations. The decision shall include (a) a statement of findings and conclusions, as well as the reasons or basis therefor, upon all the material issues of fact or law presented on the record, and (b) an order of suspension, termination or reprimand or an order of dismissal of the complaint. The Administrative Law Judge shall file the decision with the Executive Director and shall transmit a copy thereof to the respondent or his/her attorney or agent of record. In the absence of an appeal to the Joint Board or review of the decision upon motion of the Joint Board, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall without further proceedings become the decision of the Joint Board 30 days from the date of the Administrative Law Judge's decision.
§ 901.50
Appeal to the Joint Board.
Within 30 days from the date of the Administrative Law Judge's decision, either party may appeal to the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries. The appeal shall be filed with the Executive Director in duplicate and shall
include exceptions to the decision of the Administrative Law Judge and supporting reasons for such exceptions. If an appeal is filed by the Executive Director, a copy thereof shall be transmitted to the respondent. Within 30 days after receipt of an appeal or copy thereof, the other party may file a reply brief in duplicate with the Executive Director. If the reply brief is filed by the Executive Director, a copy of it shall be transmitted to the respondent. Upon the filing of an appeal and a reply brief, if any, the Executive Director shall transmit the entire record to the joint board.
§ 901.51
Decision of the Joint Board.
On appeal from or review of the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge, the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries will make the final decision. In making its decision the Joint Board will review the record of such portions thereof as may be cited by the parties to permit limiting of the issues. A copy of the Joint Board's decision shall be transmitted to the respondent by the Executive Director.
§ 901.52
Effect of suspension, termination or resignation of enrollment; surrender of enrollment certificate.
If the respondent's enrollment is suspended, the respondent shall not thereafter be permitted to perform actuarial services under ERISA during the period of suspension. If the respondent's enrollment is terminated, the respondent shall not thereafter be permitted to perform actuarial serv- ices under ERISA unless and until authorized to do so by the Executive Director pursuant to § 901.54. The respondent shall surrender his/her enrollment certificate to the Executive Director for cancellation in the case of a termination or resignation of enrollment or for retention during a period of suspension.
§ 901.53
Notice of suspension, termination or resignation of enrollment.
Upon the resignation or the issuance of a final order suspending or terminating the enrollment of an actuary, the Executive Director shall give notice thereof to appropriate officers and employees of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, and to other interested departments and agencies of the Federal Government.
§ 901.54
Petition for reinstatement.
Any individual whose enrollment has been terminated may petition the Executive Director for reinstatement after the expiration of five years following such termination. Reinstatement may not be granted unless the Executive Director, with the approval of the Joint Board, is satisfied that the petitioner is not likely to conduct himself/herself thereafter contrary to the regulations in this part, and that granting such reinstatement would not be contrary to the public interest.

# Subpart E—General Provisions

# Authority:
Sec. 3042(b), ERISA, 29 U.S.C. 1242(b).

# Source:
43 FR 39761, Sept. 7, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 901.70
Records.
(a)
Availability.
There are made available for public inspection at the Office of the Executive Director of the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries a roster of all persons enrolled to perform actuarial services under ERISA and a roster of all persons whose enrollments to perform such services have been suspended or terminated. Other records may be disclosed upon specific request, in accordance with the applicable disclosure and privacy statutes.
(b)
Disciplinary procedures.
A request by an enrolled actuary that a hearing in a disciplinary proceeding concerning him/her be public, and that the record thereof be made available for inspection by interested persons may be granted if written agreement is reached in advance to protect from disclosure tax information which is confidential, in accordance with applicable statutes and regulations.
§ 901.71
Special orders.
The Joint Board reserves the power to issue such special orders as it may deem proper in any case within the purview of this part.
§ 901.72
Additional rules.
The Joint Board may, in notice or other guidance of general applicability, provide additional rules regarding the enrollment of actuaries.
[76 FR 17776, Mar. 31, 2011]
Pt. 902

# PART 902—RULES REGARDING AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
Sec.
902.1
Scope.
902.2
Definitions.
902.3
Published information.
902.4
Access to records.
902.5
Appeal.

# Authority:
Sec. 3042, subtitle C, title 3, Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 1002, 29 U.S.C. 1241, 1242).

# Source:
42 FR 39204, Aug. 3, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 902.1
Scope.
This part is issued by the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (the “Joint Board”) pursuant to the requirements of section 552 of title 5 of the United States Code, including the requirements that every Federal agency shall publish in the
Federal Register,
for the guidance of the public, descriptions of the established places at which, the officers from whom, and the methods whereby, the public may obtain information, make submittals or requests, or obtain decisions.
§ 902.2
Definitions.
(a)
Records of the Joint Board.
For purposes of this part, the term “records of the Joint Board” means rules, statements, opinions, orders, memoranda, letters, reports, accounts, and other papers containing information in the possession of the Joint Board that constitute part of the Joint Board's official files.
(b)
Unusual Circumstances.
For purposes of this part, “unusual circumstances” means, but only to the extent reasonably necessary for the proper processing of the particular request:
(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from other establishments that are separate from the Joint Board's office processing the request;
(2) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or
(3) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request.
§ 902.3
Published information.
(a)
Federal Register.
Pursuant to sections 552 and 553 of title 5 of the United States Code, and subject to the provisions of § 902.5, the Joint Board publishes in the
Federal Register
for the guidance of the public, in addition to this part, descriptions of its organization and procedures, substantive rules of general applicability, and, as may from time to time be appropriate, statements of general policy, and interpretations of general applicability.
(b)
Other published information.
From time to time, the Joint Board issues statements to the press relating to its operations.
(c)
Obtaining printed information.
If not available through the Government Printing Office, printed information released by the Joint Board may be obtained without cost from the Executive Director of the Joint Board (“Executive Director”).
§ 902.4
Access to records.
(a)
General rule.
All records of the Joint Board, including information set forth in section 552(a)(2) of title 5 of the United States Code, are made available to any person, upon request, for inspection and copying in accordance with the provisions of this section and subject to the limitations stated in section 552(b) of title 5 of the United States Code. Records falling within such limitations may nevertheless be made available in accordance with this section to the extent consistent, in the judgment of the Chairman of the Joint Board (“Chairman”), with the effective performance of the Joint Board's statutory responsibilities and with the avoidance of injury to a public or private interest intended to be protected by such limitations.
(b)
Obtaining access to records.
Records of the Joint Board subject to
this section are available by appointment for public inspection or copying during regular business hours on regular business days at the office of the Executive Director. Every request for access to such records, other than published records described in § 902.3, shall be signed and submitted in writing to the Executive Director, Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, c/o Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220, shall state the name and address of the person requesting such access, and shall describe such records in a manner reasonably sufficient to permit their identification without undue difficulty.
(c)
Fees.
A fee at the rate of $5.00 per hour or fraction thereof or the time required to locate such records, plus ten cents per standard page for any copying thereof, shall be paid by any person requesting records other than published records described in § 902.3. In addition, the cost of postage and any packaging and special handling shall be paid by the requester. Documents shall be provided without charge or at a reduced charge where the Chairman determines that waiver or reduction of the fee is in the public interest because furnishing the information can be considered as primarily benefiting the general public.
(d)
Actions on requests.
The Executive Director shall, within ten days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) from receipt of request, determine whether to comply with such request for records and shall immediately notify in writing the person making such request of such determination and the reason therefor, and of the right of such person to appeal any adverse determination, as provided in § 902.5. In unusual circumstances, the time limit for the determination may be extended by written notice to the person making such request setting forth the reasons for such extension and the date on which the determination is expected to be dispatched. No such notice shall specify a date that will result in an extension of more than ten working days.
§ 902.5
Appeal.
(a) Any person denied access to records requested under § 902.4, may within thirty days after notification of such denial, file a signed written appeal to the Joint Board. The appeal shall provide the name and address of the appellant, the identification of the records denied, and the dates of the original request and its denial.
(b) The Joint Board shall act upon any such appeal within twenty days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) of its receipt, unless for unusual circumstances the time for such action is deferred, subject to § 902.4(b), for not more than ten days. If action upon any such appeal is so deferred, the Joint Board shall notify the requester of the reasons for such deferral and the date on which the final reply is expected to be dispatched. If it is determined that the appeal from the initial denial shall be denied (in whole or in part), the requester shall be notified in writing of the denial, of the reasons therefor, of the fact the Joint Board is responsible for the denial, and of the provisions of section 552(a)(4) of title 5 of the United States Code for judicial review of the determination.
(c) Any extension or extensions of time under §§ 902.4(d) and 902.5(b) shall not cumulatively total more than ten days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays). If an extension is invoked in connection with an initial determination under § 902.4(d), any unused days of such extension may be invoked in connection with the determination on appeal under § 902.5(a), by written notice from the Joint Board.
Pt. 903

# PART 903—ACCESS TO RECORDS

# Subpart A—Records Pertaining to Individuals
Sec.
903.1
Purpose and scope of regulations.
903.2
Definitions.
903.3
Procedures for notification with respect to records regarding individuals.
903.4
Procedures for access to records and accountings of disclosures from records, regarding individuals.
903.5
Procedures for amendment of records regarding individual—format, agency review and appeal from initial adverse agency determination.
903.6
Fees.
903.7
Guardianship.
903.8
Exemptions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
41 FR 1493, Jan. 8, 1976, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Records Pertaining to Individuals
§ 903.1
Purpose and scope of regulations.
The regulations in this subpart are issued to implement the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a). The regulations relate to all records maintained by the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Joint Board) which are identifiable by individual name or identifier and all systems of such records which are retrievable by name or other identifier. They do not relate to personnel records of Government employees, which are under the jurisdiction of the Civil Service Commission, and, thus, subject to regulations issued by such Commission. The regulations set forth the procedures by which individuals may request notification of whether the Joint Board maintains or has disclosed a record pertaining to them or may seek access to such records maintained in any non-exempt system of records, request amendment of such records, and appeal any initial adverse determination with respect to any such request.
§ 903.2
Definitions.
(a) The term
agency
includes any executive department, military department, Government corporation, Government controlled corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Government (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency (see 5 U.S.C. 552(e));
(b) The term
individual
means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence;
(c) The term
maintain
includes maintain, use, collect or disseminate;
(d) The term
record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Joint Board, including, but not limited to, his education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains his name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual such as a finger or voice print or a photograph;
(e) The term
system of records
means a group of any records under the control of the Joint Board from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual;
(f) The term
routine use
means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected.
§ 903.3
Procedures for notification with respect to records regarding individuals.
(a)
Procedures for notification.
The systems of records maintained by the Joint Board are listed annually as required by the Privacy Act of 1974. Any individual, who wishes to know whether a system of records contains a record regarding him, may write to the Executive Director, Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, c/o U.S. Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220. Requests may also be delivered personally to the Executive Director, Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, 2401 E Street, NW., suite 1537, Washington, D.C. between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on workdays. Any such inquiry will be acknowledged in writing within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) of receipt of the request.
(b)
Requests.
A request for notification of whether a record exists shall:
(1) Be made in writing and signed by the person making the request, who must be the individual about whom the record is maintained, or his duly authorized representative (see § 903.7);
(2) State that it is made pursuant to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, or the regulations contained in this part;
(3) Furnish the name of the system of records with respect to which notification is sought, as specified in the systems notices published in the
Federal Register,
Volume 40, No. 167;
(4) Mark “Privacy Act Request” on the request and on the envelope in which the request is contained;
(5) Be addressed as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, unless personally delivered; and
(6) Meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Verification of identity.
Notification of the existence of records in certain systems maintained by the Joint Board will not be made unless the individual requester's identity is verified. Where applicable, requirements for verification of identity are specified in the notices of systems published in the
Federal Register,
Volume 40, No. 167.
(d)
Date of receipt of request.
A request for notification with respect to records shall be considered to have been received on the date on which the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section have been satisfied. Requests for notification shall be stamped with the date of receipt by the Office of the Executive Director.
(e)
Exemptions.
The procedures prescribed under paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section shall not apply to: (1) Systems of records exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k); (2) information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding (see 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) (5); or (3) information regarding an individual which is contained in, and inseparable from, another individual's record.
(f)
Notification of determination
—(1)
In general.
The Executive Director shall, except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, notify an individual requester as to whether or not a system of records contains a record regarding such individual. Such notification shall be made within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) after the date of receipt of the request, as determined in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. If it is not possible to respond within 30 days, the Executive Director will inform the requester, stating the reasons for the delay (e.g., volume of records involved, need to consult other agencies, or the difficulty of the legal issues involved) and when a response will be dispatched.
(2)
Denial of request.
When it is determined that a request for notification with respect to records will be denied (whether in whole or in part or subject to conditions or exceptions), the person making the request shall be so notified by mail in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section. The letter of notification shall set forth the name and title or position of the responsible official.
(3)
Records exempt in whole or in part.
(i) When an individual requests notification with respect to records concerning himself which have been compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding either in a court or before an administrative tribunal, the Executive Director will neither confirm nor deny the existence of the record but shall advise the individual only that no record with respect to the existence of which he is entitled to be notified pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974 has been identified.
(ii) Requests for records which have been exempted from the requirement of notification pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) shall be responded to in the manner provided in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section.
§ 903.4
Procedures for access to records and accountings of disclosures from records, regarding individuals.
(a)
Access.
The Executive Director of the Joint Board shall, upon request by any individual to gain access to a record regarding him which is contained in a system of records maintained by the Joint Board, or to an accounting of a disclosure from such record made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(1), permit that individual, and, upon his/her request, a person he/she chooses to accompany him/her, to review the record or any such accounting and have a copy made of all or any portion thereof in a form comprehensible to the individual, except that the Executive Director may require the individual to furnish a written statement authorizing discussion of that individual's record in the accompanying person's presence. Such request may be addressed to the Executive Director, Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, c/o U.S. Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220. Requests may also be delivered personally to the Executive Director, Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, 2401 E Street, NW., suite 1537, Washington,
DC, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on workdays. Any such inquiry will be acknowledged in writing within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) of receipt of the request (see paragraph (e) of this section).
(b)
Requests.
A request for access to records or accountings of disclosure from records, shall:
(1) Be signed in writing by the person making the request, who must be the individual about whom the record is maintained, or his duly authorized representative (see § 903.7);
(2) State that it is made pursuant to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, or the regulations contained in this part;
(3) Furnish the name of the system of records to which access is sought, or the name of the system for a disclosure from which an accounting is sought, as specified in the systems notices published in the
Federal Register,
Volume 40, No. 167;
(4) Mark “Privacy Act Request” on the request and on the envelope in which the request is contained;
(5) Be addressed as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, unless personally delivered;
(6) State whether the requester wishes to inspect the records and/or accountings of disclosures therefrom, or desires to have a copy made and furnished without inspecting them;
(7) State, if the requester desires to have a copy made, the requester's agreement to pay the fees for duplication as ultimately determined in accordance with § 903.6; and
(8) Meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Verification of identity.
Access to records contained in certain systems maintained by the Joint Board and/or accountings of disclosures from such records, will not be granted unless the individual requester's identity is verified. Where applicable, requirements for verification of identity are specified in the notices of systems published in the
Federal Register,
Volume 40, No. 167.
(d)
Exemptions.
The procedures specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section shall not apply to: (1) Systems of records exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k); (2) information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding (see 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(5)); or (3) information regarding an individual which is contained in, and inseparable from, another individual's record.
(e)
Date of receipt of request.
A request for access to records and/or accountings shall be considered to have been received on the date on which the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section have been satisfied. Requests for access, and any separate agreement to pay, shall be stamped with the date of receipt by the Office of the Executive Director. The latest of such stamped dates will be deemed to be the date of receipt of the request.
(f)
Notification of determination
—(1)
In general.
Notification of determinations as to whether to grant access to records and/or accountings requested will be made by the Executive Director of the Joint Board. The notification of the determination shall be made within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) after the date of receipt of the request, as determined in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. If it is not possible to respond within 30 days, the Executive Director will inform the requester, stating the reason(s) for the delay (e.g., volume of records requested, need to consult other agencies, or the difficulty of the legal issues involved) and when a response will be dispatched (See 5 U.S.C. 552a (d) and (f)).
(2)
Granting of access.
(i) When it has been determined that the request for access will be granted—(A) and a copy requested; such copy in a form comprehensible to him shall be furnished promptly, together with a statement of the applicable fees for duplication as set forth elsewhere in these regulations (See § 903.6); and (B) and the right to inspect has been requested, the requester shall be promptly notified in writing of the determination, and when and where the requested records and/or accountings may be inspected.
(ii) An individual seeking to inspect records concerning himself and/or accountings of disclosure from such records may be accompanied by another individual of his own choosing. The individual seeking access shall be
required to sign the required form indicating that the Joint Board is authorized to discuss the contents of the subject record in the accompanying person's presence. If, after making the inspection, the individual making the request desires a copy of all or portion of the requested records, such copy in a form comprehensible to him shall be furnished upon payment of the applicable fees for duplication as prescribed by § 903.6. Fees shall not be charged where they would amount, in the aggregate, to less than $53.00. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a (d) and (f):
(3)
Denial of request.
(i) When it is determined that the request for access to records will be denied (whether in whole or in part or subject to conditions or exceptions), the person making the request shall be so notified by mail in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section. The letter of notification shall contain a statement of the reasons for not granting the request as made, set forth the name and title or position of the responsible official and advise the individual making the request of the right to file suit in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(B).
(ii) When it is determined that a request for access to accountings will be denied, the person making the request shall be so notified by mail in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(4)(iii) of this section.
(4)
Records exempt in whole or in part.
(i) When an individual requests records concerning himself which have been compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding either in a court or before an administrative tribunal, the Executive Director will neither confirm nor deny the existence of the record but shall advise the individual only that no record available to him pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974 has been identified.
(ii) Requests for records which have been exempted from disclosure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) shall be responded to in the manner provided in paragraph (f)(4)(i) of this section unless a review of the information indicates that the information has been used or is being used to deny the individual any right, privilege or benefit for which he is eligible or to which he would otherwise be entitled under Federal law. In that event, the individual shall be advised of the existence of the information but such information as would identify a confidential source shall be extracted or summarized in a manner which protects the source to the maximum degree possible and the summary extract shall be provided to the requesting individual.
(iii) When an individual requests access to accountings of disclosure from records concerning himself which have been compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding, either in a court or before an administrative tribunal, or which have been exempted from disclosure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the Executive Director will neither confirm nor deny the existence of the record or accountings of disclosure therefrom, but shall advise the individual that no accounting available to him pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974 has been identified.
§ 903.5
Procedures for amendment of records regarding individual—format, agency review and appeal from initial adverse agency determination.
(a)
In general.
Subject to the application of exemptions promulgated by the Joint Board, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(k), the Executive Director shall, in conformance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2), permit an individual to request amendment of a record pertaining to him. Any such request shall be addressed to the Executive Director, Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, U.S. Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220 or delivered personally to the Executive Director, Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, 2401 E Street, NW., suite 1537, Washington, DC. Any request for amendment of records or any appeal from the initial denial of a request which does not fully comply with the requirements of this section will not be deemed subject to the time constraints of paragraph (e) of this section, unless and until amended so as to comply. However, the Executive Director shall forthwith advise the requester in what respect the request or appeal is deficient so that it may be resubmitted or amended. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a (d) and (f)).
(b)
Form of request to amend records.
In order to be subject to the provisions of
this section, a request to amend records shall:
(1) Be made in writing and signed by the person making the request, who must be the individual about whom the record is maintained, or his duly authorized representative. (See § 903.7);
(2) State that it is made pursuant to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a or these regulations;
(3) Mark “Privacy Act Amendment Request” on the request and on the envelope; and
(4) Reasonably describe the records which the individual desires to have amended, including, to the best of the requester's knowledge, dates of letters requesting access to such records previously and dates of letters in which notification concerning access was made, if any, and the individual's documentation justifying the correction. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a (d) and (f)).
(c)
Date of receipt of request.
A request for amendment of records pertaining to an individual shall be deemed to have been received for purposes of this subpart when the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section have been satisfied. The Office of the Executive Director shall stamp the date of receipt of the request thereon. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a (d) and (f)).
(d)
Review of requests to amend records.
The Executive Director shall:
(1) Not later than 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the date of receipt of such request, acknowledge in writing such receipt; and
(2) Promptly, either—(i) make any correction of any portion of a record which the individual believes and the Executive Director agrees is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete; or (ii) inform the individual of the refusal to amend the record in accordance with his request, the reason for the refusal, and that he may request that the Joint Board review such refusal. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a (d) and (f)).
(e)
Administrative appeal
—(1)
Ingeneral.
The Joint Board shall permit individuals to request a review of initial decisions made under paragraph (d) of this section when an individual disagrees with a refusal to amend his record. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), and (g)(1)).
(2)
Form of request for administrative review of refusal to amend record.
At any time within 35 days after the date of the notification of the initial decision described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the requester may submit a request for review of such refusal to the official specified in the notification of the initial decision. The appeal shall:
(i) Be made in writing stating any arguments in support thereof and be signed by the person to whom the record pertains, or his duly authorized representative (See § 903.7);
(ii) Within 35 days of the date of the initial decision: (A) Be addressed and mailed to the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, c/o U.S. Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220; or (B) be personally delivered to the Executive Director, Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, 2401 E Street NW., suite 1537, Washington, DC on workdays between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.;
(iii) Have clearly marked on the appeal and on the envelope, “Privacy Act Amendment Appeal”;
(iv) Reasonably describe the records requested to be amended; and
(v) Specify the date of the initial request to amend records, and the date of the letter giving notification that the request was denied. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a (d) and (f)).
(3)
Date of Receipt.
Appeals shall be promptly stamped with the date of their receipt by the Office of the Executive Director and such stamped date will be deemed to be the date of receipt for all purposes of this section. The receipt of the appeal shall be acknowledged within 10 days from the date of receipt (unless the determination on appeal is dispatched in 10 days, in which case, no acknowledgment is required) by the Joint Board and the requester is advised of the date of receipt established by the foregoing and when a response is due in accordance with this paragraph. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a (d) and (f)).
(4)
Review of administrative appeals from denial of requests to amend records.
The Joint Board shall complete the review and notify the requester of the final agency decision within 30 days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) after the date of
receipt of such appeal, unless it extends the time for good cause shown. If such final agency decision is to refuse to amend the record, in whole or in part, the requester shall also be advised of his right; (i) to file a concise “Statement of Disagreement” setting forth the reasons for his disagreement with the decision which shall be filed within 35 days of the date of the notification of the final agency decision and (ii) to seek judicial review of the final agency decision under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(A). (See 5 U.S.C. 552a (d), (f) and (g)(1)).
(5)
Notation on record and distribution of statements of disagreement.
(i) The Executive Director is responsible, in any disclosure containing information about which an individual has filed a “Statement of Disagreement,” occurring after the filing of the statement under paragraph (e)(4) of this section, for clearly noting any portion of the record which is disputed and providing copies of the statement and, if deemed appropriate, a concise statement of the Joint Board's reasons for not making the amendments requested, to persons or other agencies to whom the disputed record has been disclosed. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(4)).
(ii) In addition, when a “Statement of Disagreement” is filed regarding information previously disclosed to a person or other agency and when, for such disclosure, an accounting was made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c)(1). then the Executive Director shall provide such person or other agency with the following:
(A) Copy of the “Statement of Disagreement”;
(B) Copy of the portion of the previously disclosed in dispute clearly noted as disputed and;
(C) If deemed approprirate, a concise statement of the Joint Board's reasons for not making requested amendments.
(f)
Records not subject to correction.
The following records are not subject to correction or amendment by individuals:
(1) Transcripts or written statements made under oath;
(2) Transcripts of Grand Jury proceedings, judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings which form the official record of those proceedings;
(3) Pre-sentence reports comprising the property of the courts but maintained in agency files;
(4) Records pertaining to the determination, the collection and the payment of federal taxes; and
(5) Records duly exempted from correction by notice published in the
Federal Register.
[41 FR 1493, Jan. 8, 1976, as amended at 45 FR 84994, Dec. 24, 1980]
§ 903.6
Fees.
Charges for copies of records made pursuant to part 903 of this chapter will be at the rate of $0.10 per copy. For records not susceptible to photocopying, e.g., over-size materials, photographs, etc., the amount charged will be the actual cost of copying. Only one copy of each record requested will be provided. No charge will be made unless the charge as computed above would exceed $3 for each request or related series of requests. If a fee in excess of $25 is required, the requester will be notified that the fee must be tendered before the records will be copied.
§ 903.7
Guardianship.
The guardian of a person judicially determined to be incompetent shall, in addition to establishing the identity of the person he represents, establish his own guardianship by furnishing a copy of a court order establishing the guardianship and may thereafter act on behalf of such individual. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(h)).
§ 903.8
Exemptions.
(a)
Names of systems:
JBEA-2, Enrolled Actuary Disciplinary Records; and JBEA-4, Enrolled Actuary Enrollment Records.
(b)
Provisions from which exempted:
These systems contain records described in section (k)(2) of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). Exemptions are claimed for such records only where appropriate from the following provisions: sections (c)(3); (d); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), and (e)(4)(I); and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(c)
Reasons for claimed exemptions:
(1) The Privacy Act of 1974 creates several methods by which individuals may learn of and obtain records containing
information on such individuals and consisting of investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes. These methods are as follows: Subsection (c)(3) allows individuals to discover if other agencies are investigating such individuals; subsections (d)(1), (e)(4)(H) and (f)(2), (3) and (5) establish the ability of individuals to gain access to investigatory material compiled on such individuals; subsections (d)(2), (3) and (4), (e)(4)(H) and (f)(4) presuppose access and enable individuals to contest the contents of investigatory material compiled on these individuals; and subsections (e)(4)(G) and (f)(1) allow individuals to determine whether or not they are under investigation. Because these subsections are variations upon the individual's ability to ascertain whether his civil or criminal misconduct has been discovered, these subsections have been grouped together for purposes of this notice.
(2)(i) The Joint Board believes that imposition of the requirements of subsection (c)(3), which requires that accountings of disclosures be made available to individuals, would impair the ability of the Joint Board and other investigative entities to conduct investigations of alleged or suspected violations of the regulations governing the performance of actuarial services with respect to plans to which the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) applies, and of civil or criminal laws. Making the accountings of disclosures available to individuals enables such individuals to identify entities investigating them and thereby to determine the nature of the violations of which they are suspected. With such knowledge, individuals would be able to alter their illegal activities, destroy or alter evidence of such activities and seriously impair the successful completion of investigations. For these reasons, the Joint Board claims exemption from the requirements of subsection (c)(3) of the Act.
(ii) With respect to subsections (d)(1), (e)(4)(H), and (f)(2), (3) and (5), the Joint Board believes that access to investigatory material would prevent the successful completion of investigations. Individuals who gain access to investigatory material involving them discover the nature and extent of the violations of regulations, and of civil and criminal laws, of which they are suspected. By gaining access, such individuals also learn the facts developed during investigations. Knowledge of these matters enables these individuals to destroy or alter evidence which would otherwise have been used against them. In addition, knowledge of the facts and suspected violations gives individuals, who are committing ongoing violations, or who are about to commit violations of regulations, or of civil or criminal laws, the opportunity to temporarily postpone the commission of the violations or to effectively disguise the commission of these violations. Material compiled on investigated individuals reveals investigative techniques and procedures, disclosure of which enables such individuals to structure their illegal activities so as to escape detection. Further, such material may contain, or by its very nature reveal, the identity of confidential sources. When the identities of confidential sources are revealed, they may be subjected to various forms of reprisal. If confidential sources of information are subjected to actual reprisals or fear thereof, they may become reluctant to provide information necessary to identify or prove the guilt of persons who violate regulations, or civil or criminal laws. Further, the protections afforded by the above-referenced subsections are unnecessary because the Joint Board may not deny enrollment or suspend or terminate the enrollment of an individual to perform actuarial services until it has provided such individual with due process safeguards. For these reasons, the Joint Board claims exemptions from the requirements of subsections (d)(1), (e)(4)(H), and (f)(2), (3), and (5) of the Act.
(iii) With respect to subsections (d) (2), (3) and (4), (e)(4)(H), and (f)(4), the Joint Board believes that the imposition of these requirements, which presuppose access and provide for amending records, would impair the ability to conduct investigations and would be unnecessary for the same reasons stated in the preceding subsection (2)(ii). These reasons herein are incorporated by reference. Therefore, the Joint
Board claims exemptions from the requirements of subsections (d)(2), (3), and (4), (e)(4)(H), and (f)(4).
(iv) With respect to subsections (e)(4)(G) and (f)(1), the Joint Board believes that informing individuals that they are the subjects of a particular system or systems of records would impair the ability of the Joint Board and its agents to successfully complete investigations of suspected or alleged violators of the regulations governing the performance of actuarial services with respect to plans to which ERISA applies. Individuals who learn that they are suspected of violating said regulations are given the opportunity to destroy or alter evidence needed to prove the alleged violations. Such individuals may also be able to impair investigations by temporarily suspending or restructuring the activities which place them in violation of said regulations. Further, as noted in the preceding subsection (2)(ii) and incorporated by reference herein, the procedural requirements imposed on the Joint Board by ERISA make the protections afforded by subsections (e)(4)(G) and (f)(1) unnecessary. For these reasons, the Joint Board claims exemptions from the requirements of subsections (e)(4)(G) and (f)(1).
(v) Subsection (e)(1) of the Privacy Act of 1974 requires that the Joint Board maintain in its records only information that is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the Office required to be accomplished by statute or by executive order of the President. The Joint Board believes that imposition of said requirement would seriously impair its ability, and the abilities of its agents and other investigative entities to effectively investigate suspected or alleged violations of regulations and of civil or criminal laws. The Joint Board does not initiate inquires into individuals' conduct unless it receives information evidencing violation by such individuals of the regulations governing performance of actuarial services with respect to plans to which ERISA applies. Sources of such information may be unfamiliar with the Joint Board's interpretations of said regulations and, therefore, may not always provide only relevant and necessary information. Therefore, it may often be impossible to determine whether or not information is relevant and necessary. For these reasons, the Joint Board claims exemption from the requirements of subsection (e)(1).
(vi) Subsection (e)(4)(I) of the Privacy Act of 1974 requires the publication of the categories of sources of records in each system of records. The Joint Board believes that imposition of said requirement would seriously impair its ability to obtain information from such sources for the following reasons. Revealing such categories of sources could disclose investigative techniques and procedures and could cause sources to decline to provide information because of fear of reprisal, or fear of breaches of promises of confidentiality. For these reasons, the Joint Board claims exemption from the requirements of subsection (e)(4)(I).
[41 FR 1493, Jan. 8, 1976, as amended at 75 FR 81455, Dec. 28, 2010]
PARTS 904-999 [RESERVED]
20 CFR Ch. IX (4-1-25 Edition)
Asst. Sec. for Veterans' Employment and Training, Labor

# CHAPTER IX—OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR VETERANS' EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
Part
Page
1000
[Reserved]
1001
Services for veterans
673
1002
Regulations under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994
682
1010
Application of priority of service for covered persons
719
1011
Hire Vets Medallion Program
724
1012-1099
[Reserved]
PART 1000 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1001

# PART 1001—SERVICES FOR VETERANS

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
Sec.
1001.100
Purpose and scope of subpart.
1001.101
Definitions of terms used in subpart.

# Subpart B—Federal Responsibilities
1001.110
Role of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training (ASVET).

# Subpart C—Standards of Performance Governing State Agency Services to Veterans and Eligible Persons
1001.120
Standards of performance governing State agency services.
1001.121
Performance standard on facilities and support for Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) staff.
1001.122
Reporting and budget requirements.
1001.123
Performance standards governing the assignment and role of Local Veterans' Employment Representatives (LVERs).
1001.124
Standards of performance governing State agency cooperation and coordination with other agencies and organizations.
1001.125
Standards of performance governing complaints of veterans and eligible persons.

# Subpart D—State Employment Service Agency Compliance
1001.130
Determination of compliance.
1001.131
Secretary's annual report to Congress.

# Subpart E—Standards of Performance Governing the Disabled Veterans Outreach Program (DVOP)
1001.140
Administration of DVOP.
1001.141
Functions of DVOP staff.
1001.142
Stationing of DVOP staff.

# Subpart F—Formula for the Allocation of Grant Funds to State Agencies
1001.150
Method of calculating State basic grant awards.
1001.151
Other funding criteria.
1001.152
Hold-harmless criteria and minimum funding level.

# Subpart G—Purpose and Definitions
1001.160
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
1001.161
What definitions apply to this part?
1001.162
How does the Department define veteran for purposes of this subpart?
1001.163
What is the national entered employment rate (EER) and what is a State's program year EER for purposes of this part?
1001.164
What is the uniform national threshold EER, and how will it be calculated?
1001.165
When will the uniform national threshold EER be published?
1001.166
How will the uniform national threshold EER be used to evaluate whether a State will be required to submit a Corrective Action Plan (CAP)?
1001.167
In addition to the procedures specified in this part, will the Department be conducting any other monitoring of compliance regarding services to veterans?

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 49k; 38 U.S.C. chapters 41 and 42.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
§ 1001.100
Purpose and scope of subpart.
(a) This subpart contains the Department of Labor's regulations for implementing 38 U.S.C. 2001-2012, chapters 41 and 42, which require the Secretary of Labor to provide eligible veterans and eligible persons the maximum of employment and training opportunities, with priority given to the needs of disabled veterans and veterans of the Vietnam era, through the public employment service system established pursuant to the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended.
(b) This subpart describes the roles and responsibilities of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training (ASVET) and the staff of the Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS).
(c) This subpart describes the performance standards for determining compliance of State agencies in carrying out the provisions of 38 U.S.C., chapters 41 and 42 with respect to:
(1) Providing services to eligible veterans and eligible persons to enhance their employment prospects,
(2) Priority referral of special disabled veterans and veterans of the Vietnam era to job openings listed by
Federal contractors pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 2012(a), and
(3) Reporting of services provided to eligible veterans and eligible persons pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 2007(c) and 2012(c).
(d) Performance standards are contained in this part at §§ 1001.140-1001.142 on the conduct of the Disabled Veterans Outreach Program (DVOP) in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 2003A.
[49 FR 12919, Mar. 30, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 54 FR 39353, Sept. 26, 1989]
§ 1001.101
Definitions of terms used in subpart.
Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training (ASVET)
shall mean the official of the Department of Labor as described in § 1001.110 of this part.
Assistant State Director for Veterans' Employment and Training Service (ASDVETS)
shall mean a Federal employee who is designated as an assistant to a State Director for Veterans' Employment and Training Service (SDVETS).
Disabled Veteran
shall mean a veteran who is entitled to compensation (or who but for the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under laws administered by the Veterans Administration and whos not classified as a Special Disabled Veteran.
Eligible person
shall mean:
(1) The spouse of any person who died of a service-connected disability; or
(2) The spouse of any member of the armed forces serving on active duty who at the time of application for assistance under this subpart, is listed, pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 556 and the regulations issued thereunder, by the Secretary concerned, in one or more of the following categories and has been so listed for a total of more than 90 days: (i) Missing in action, (ii) captured in line of duty by a hostile force, or (iii) forcibly detained or interned in line of duty by a foreign government or power; or
(3) The spouse of any person who has a total disability permanent in nature resulting from a service-connected disability or the spouse of a veteran who died while a disability so evaluated was in existence.
Eligible veteran
shall mean a person who (1) served on active duty for a period of more than 180 days and was discharged or released therefrom with other than a dishonorable discharge, or (2) was discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected disability.
Local Veterans' Employment Representative (LVER)
shall mean a member of the State agency staff designated and assigned by the State agency administrator to serve veterans and eligible persons pursuant to this subpart.
Regional Director for Veterans' Employment and Training Service (RDVETS)
is the representative of the ASVET on the staff of the Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) at the regional level; supervises all other VETS staff within the region to which assigned; and shall report to, be responsible to, and be under the administrative direction of the ASVET.
Service Delivery Point (SDP)
shall mean a designated local employment service office which serves an area that may also contain extended service locations.
Special disabled veteran
shall mean (1) a veteran who is entitled to compensation (or who but for the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under laws administered by the Veterans Administration for a disability rated at 30 percent or more, or (2) a person who was discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected disability.
State agency
means the State governmental unit designated pursuant to section 4 of the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended, to cooperate with the United States Employment Service in the operation of the public employment service system.
State Director for Veterans' Employment and Training Service (SDVETS)
is the representative of ASVET on the staff of the Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) at the State level.
United States Employment Service (USES)
shall mean the component of the Employment and Training Administration of the Department of Labor, established under the Wagner-Peyser
Act, as amended, to maintain and coordinate a national system of public employment service agencies.
Veteran of the Vietnam era
shall mean an eligible veteran who (1) served on active duty for a period of more than 180 days, any part of which occurred during the Vietnam era (August 5, 1964, through May 7, 1975) and was discharged or released therefrom with other than a dishonorable discharge; or (2) was discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability if any part of such active duty was performed during the Vietnam era.
Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS)
shall mean the organizational component of the Department of Labor administered by the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training established to promulgate and administer policies and regulations to provide eligible veterans and eligible persons the maximum of employment and training opportunities according to 38 U.S.C. 2002.
[49 FR 12919, Mar. 30, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 54 FR 39353, Sept. 26, 1989]

# Subpart B—Federal Responsibilities
§ 1001.110
Role of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training (ASVET).
(a) As the principal veterans' advisor to the Secretary of Labor, the ASVET shall formulate, promulgate, and administer policies, regulations, grant procedures, grant agreements and administrative guidelines and administer them through the Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) so as to provide eligible veterans and eligible persons the maximum of employment and training opportunities, with priority given to the needs of disabled veterans and veterans of the Vietnam era, through existing programs, coordination, and merger of programs and implementation of new programs.
(b) ASVET shall oversee activities carried out by State agencies pursuant to 38 U.S.C., chapters 41 and 42.
(c) ASVET shall ensure that appropriate records and reports are maintained by State agencies within their management information systems to fulfill their obligations under this subpart.
[49 FR 12919, Mar. 30, 1984. Redesignated at 54 FR 39353, Sept. 26, 1989]

# Subpart C—Standards of Performance Governing State Agency Services to Veterans and Eligible Persons

# Source:
49 FR 12919, Mar. 30, 1984, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 54 FR 39353, Sept. 26, 1989.
§ 1001.120
Standards of performance governing State agency services.
(a) To the extent required by 38 U.S.C. 2002 and other applicable law, each State agency shall assure that all of its SDPs, using LVERs and other staff, shall provide maximum employment and training opportunities to eligible veterans and eligible persons with priority given to disabled veterans and veterans of the Vietnam-era, by giving them preference over non-veterans in the provision of employment and training services available at the SDP involved. Services are those activities or efforts including but not limited to registration, counseling, referral to supportive services, job development, etc., which are directed to help applicants find jobs or training. When making referrals from the group of applicants meeting the specific eligibility criteria for a particular program, State agencies shall observe the priority order to referral in paragraph (b).
(b) In making referrals of qualified applicants to job openings and training opportunities, to provide maximum employment and training opportunities under 38 U.S.C., SDPs shall observe the following order of priority:
(1) Special disabled veterans;
(2) Veterans of the Vietnam era;
(3) Disabled veterans other than special disabled veterans;
(4) All other veterans and eligible persons; and
(5) Nonveterans.
§ 1001.121
Performance standard on facilities and support for Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) staff.
Each State agency shall provide adequate and appropriate facilities and administrative support such as office space, furniture, telephone, equipment, and supplies to VETS staff.
§ 1001.122
Reporting and budget requirements.
(a) State agencies shall provide RDVETS, SDVETS, and ASDVETS with access to regular and special internal State agency reports which relate in whole or in part with services to veterans and/or eligible persons.
(b) Each State agency shall make reports and prepare budgets pursuant to instructions issued by the ASVET and in such format as the ASVET shall prescribe.
§ 1001.123
Performance standards governing the assignment and role of Local Veterans' Employment Representatives (LVERs).
(a) To carry out the requirements of 38 U.S.C. 2004, at least one member of each State agency staff, preferably an eligible veteran, shall be designated and assigned by each State agency administrator as a full-time or part-time LVER in each SDP in accordance with terms/requirements of a grant agreement approved by the ASVET. The ASVET intends to use the following criteria in establishing the terms and requirements of grant agreements:
(1) At least one full-time LVER shall be assigned in each SDP which has had 1,000 new or renewed applications from veterans and eligible persons during the most recent twelve-month report period unless a waiver based on demonstrated lack of need is granted by the ASVET, and
(2) At least one part-time LVER whose time shall be devoted to veterans' services in proportion to the full-time criteria shall be assigned to each SDP not meeting the criteria for full-time LVERs in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Additional full-time or part-time LVERs may be assigned based on a determination of need by the State agency administrator and in accordance with terms/requirements of a grant agreement approved by the ASVET.
(c) Each LVER shall perform, at the SDP level, the duties prescribed at 38 U.S.C. 2003(c) required by 38 U.S.C. 2004.
[49 FR 12919, Mar. 30, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 54 FR 39353, Sept. 26, 1989]
§ 1001.124
Standards of performance governing State agency cooperation and coordination with other agencies and organizations.
(a) Each State agency shall establish cooperative working relationships through written agreements with the Veterans Administration (VA) offices serving the State to maximize the use of VA employment and training programs for veterans and eligible persons.
(b) All programs and activities governed by this subpart will be coordinated to the maximum extent feasible with other programs and activities under 38 U.S.C., the Wagner-Peyser Act, the Job Training Partnership Act, and other employment and training programs at the State and local level.
(c) Such relationships or agreements may be described in the Governor's Coordination and Special Services Plan prepared according to section 121(b) of the Job Training Partnership Act (Pub. L. 97-300).
§ 1001.125
Standards of performance governing complaints of veterans and eligible persons.
Each SDP shall display information on the various complaint systems to advise veterans and eligible persons about procedures for filing employment service, Federal contractor, equal opportunity, and other complaints.

# Subpart D—State Employment Service Agency Compliance
§ 1001.130
Determination of compliance.
(a) The ASVET shall have authority for applying the requirements and remedial actions necessary to implement 20 CFR part 658, subpart H. In the event of such application, references in 20 CFR part 658, subpart H, to “ETA” shall read instead “OASVET”; references to “Regional Administrator”
shall read instead “RDVETS”; and references to “JS regulations” shall include this part.
(b) The ASVET shall establish appropriate program and management measurement and appraisal mechanisms to ensure that the standards of performance set forth in §§ 1001.120-1001.125 of this part are met. Specific performance standards designed to measure State agency services provided to veterans and eligible persons required by § 1001.120(a) of this part will be developed administratively through negotiations between State agency administrators and SDVETS and numerical values of the standards will be published as public notices in the
Federal Register.
A full report of those State agencies in noncompliance with the standards of performance and their corrective action plans shall be incorporated into the Secretary's annual report to the Congress cited at § 1001.131 of this part.
(c) Every effort should be made by the State agency administrator and the SDVETS to resolve all issues informally before proceeding with the formal process.
(d) If it is determined by the ASVET that certain State agencies are not complying with the performance standards at §§ 1001.120-1001.125 of this part, such State agencies shall be required to provide documentary evidence to the ASVET that their failure is based on good cause. If good cause is not shown, the ASVET, pursuant to subpart H of 20 CFR part 658, shall formally designate the State agency as out of compliance, shall require it to submit a corrective action plan for the following program year, and may take other action against the State agency pursuant to subpart H of 20 CFR part 658.
[49 FR 12919, Mar. 30, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 54 FR 39353, Sept. 26, 1989]
§ 1001.131
Secretary's annual report to Congress.
The Secretary shall report, after the end of each program year, on the success of the Department and State agencies in carrying out the provisions of this part.
[49 FR 12919, Mar. 30, 1984. Redesignated at 54 FR 39353, Sept. 26, 1989, and amended at 54 FR 39354, Sept. 26, 1989]

# Subpart E—Standards of Performance Governing the Disabled Veterans Outreach Program (DVOP)

# Source:
49 FR 12919, Mar. 30, 1984, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 54 FR 39353, Sept. 26, 1989.
§ 1001.140
Administration of DVOP.
(a) The ASVET shall negotiate and enter into grant agreements within each State to carry out the requirements of 38 U.S.C. 2003A for support of a Disabled Veterans Outreach Program (DVOP) to meet the employment needs of veterans, especially disabled veterans of the Vietnam era.
(b) The ASVET shall be responsible forthe supervision and monitoring of the DVOP program, including monitoring of the appointment of DVOP specialists.
(c) DVOP specialists shall be in addition to and shall not supplant local veterans' employment representatives assigned under § 1001.123 of this part.
[49 FR 12919, Mar. 30, 1984. Redesignated at 54 FR 39353, Sept. 26, 1989, and amended at 54 FR 39354, Sept. 26, 1989]
§ 1001.141
Functions of DVOP staff.
Each DVOP specialist shall carry out the duties and functions for providing services to eligible veterans according to provisions of 38 U.S.C. 2003A (b) and (c).
§ 1001.142
Stationing of DVOP staff.
DVOP specialists shall be stationed at various locations in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 2003A(b)(2).

# Subpart F—Formula for the Allocation of Grant Funds to State Agencies

# Source:
70 FR 28406, May 17, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1001.150
Method of calculating State basic grant awards.
(a) In determining the amount of funds available to each State, the ratio of the number of veterans seeking employment in the State to the number of veterans seeking employment in all States will be used.
(b) The number of veterans seeking employment will be determined based on the number of veterans in the civilian labor force and the number of unemployed persons. The civilian labor force data will be obtained from the Current Population Survey (CPS) and the unemployment data will be obtained from the Local Area Unemployment Statistics (LAUS), both of which are compiled by the Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics.
(c) Each State's basic grant allocation will be determined by dividing the number of unemployed persons in each State by the number of unemployed persons across all States (LAUS for the individual States / LAUS for all States) and by dividing the number of veterans in the civilian labor force in each State by the number of veterans in the civilian labor force across all States (CPS for the individual States / CPS for all States). The result of these two ratios will be averaged and converted to a percentage of veterans seeking employment in the State compared to the percentage of veterans seeking employment in all States. Three-year averages of the CPS and LAUS data will be used in calculating the funding formula to stabilize the effect of annual fluctuations in the data in order to avoid undue fluctuations in the annual basic grant amounts allocated to States.
(d) State Plans are prepared in response to estimated basic grant allocation amounts prepared by the Department of Labor, based upon a projection of the appropriation. Variations from Department of Labor projections will be treated as follows:
(1) If the actual appropriation varies from the projection, the Secretary will make every reasonable effort to avoid recalculating the estimated basic grant allocation amounts, in order to maintain the delivery of services to veterans and to minimize the administrative workload required to recalculate grant allocations and to revise State Plans. Therefore upon enactment and allotment of an appropriated amount, it is the Department's intent to proceed by awarding the estimated basic grant allocation amounts to State agencies, unless the difference between the projection and the appropriation creates a compelling reason to do otherwise.
(2) If the actual appropriation exceeds the projection, the Secretary will determine whether the appropriation and the projection is large enough to warrant recalculating the State basic grant amounts. In such case, state basic grant amounts will be recalculated in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. If it is determined that no compelling reason to recalculate exists, the increased amount available for basic grants will be retained as undistributed funds. These undistributed basic grant funds will be retained separately from the funds retained for TAP workload and other exigencies, as established by § 1001.151(a). The intent will be to award these undistributed basic grant funds to States as basic grant supplements, in response to circumstances arising during the applicable fiscal year.
(3) If the actual appropriation falls below the projection, the Secretary will determine whether the lower appropriation creates a compelling reason to recalculate the State basic grant amounts. If it is determined that not recalculating the State basic grant amounts would jeopardize the availability of sufficient funding for TAP workload and other exigencies, a compelling reason to recalculate would exist. In that case, the State basic grant amounts will be recalculated under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section in response to the reduced appropriation, to the extent required to assure that sufficient funding is available for TAP workload and other exigencies.
§ 1001.151
Other funding criteria.
(a) Up to four percent of the total amount available for allocation will be available for distribution based on Transition Assistance Program (TAP) workload and other exigencies.
(b) Funding for TAP workshops will be allocated on a per workshop basis.
Funding to the States will be provided pursuant to the approved State Plan.
(c) Funds for exigent circumstances, such as unusually high levels of unemployment, surges in the demand for transitioning services, including the need for TAP workshops, will be allocated based on need.
§ 1001.152
Hold-harmless criteria and minimum funding level.
(a) A hold-harmless rate of 90 percent of the prior year's funding level will be applied after the funding formula phase-in period is completed (beginning fiscal year 2006 and subsequent years).
(b) A hold-harmless rate of 80 percent of the prior year's funding level will be applied for fiscal year 2005.
(c) A minimum funding level is established to ensure that in any year, no State will receive less than 0.28 percent (.0028) of the previous year's total funding for all States.
(d) If the appropriation for a given fiscal year does not provide sufficient funds to comply with the hold-harmless provision, the Department will:
(1) Update, as appropriate, the States' estimates of TAP workload and reserve sufficient funds for that purpose from the total amount available for allocation to the States. Beyond TAP workload, no funds will be reserved for exigent circumstances because the shortfall in the appropriation will be the primary exigent circumstance to be addressed.
(2) Apply proportionally the remaining balance available for basic grant allocations to the States for that fiscal year. The proportion will be calculated by dividing the remaining balance available for allocation by the total estimated State basic grant allocations for that fiscal year. The proportion resulting from that calculation will be applied to each State's estimated basic grant allocation to calculate the amount to be awarded.

# Subpart G—Purpose and Definitions

# Source:
78 FR 15290, Mar. 11, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1001.160
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
(a) The purpose of this part is to fulfill the requirement of 38 U.S.C. 4102A(c)(3)(B) to establish a uniform national threshold entered employment rate (UNTEER) achieved for veterans and eligible persons by the State employment service delivery systems. We will use the UNTEER as part of the review process for determining whether a State's program year EER is deficient and a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) is required of that State employment service delivery system.
(b) This part is applicable to all State agencies that are recipients of Wagner-Peyser State Grants, and/or Jobs for Veterans State Grants.
§ 1001.161
What definitions apply to this part?
Department
means the United States Department of Labor, including its agencies and organizational units and their representatives.
Eligible person,
as defined at 38 U.S.C. 4101(5), means:
(1) The spouse of any person who died of a service-connected disability;
(2) The spouse of any member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who, at the time of application for assistance under this chapter, is listed, pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 556 and regulations issued thereunder by the Secretary concerned, in one or more of the following categories and has been so listed for a total of more than ninety days:
(i) Missing in action,
(ii) Captured in line of duty by a hostile force, or
(iii) Forcibly detained or interned in line of duty by a foreign government or power; or
(3) The spouse of any person who has a total disability permanent in nature resulting from a service-connected disability or the spouse of a veteran who died while a disability so evaluated was in existence.
Employment service delivery system,
as defined at 38 U.S.C. 4101(7), means a service delivery system at which or through which labor exchange services, including employment, training, and placement services, are offered in accordance with the Wagner-Peyser Act.
Jobs for Veterans Act (JVA)
means Public Law 107-288, 116 Stat. 2033 (2002), codified at 38 U.S.C. chapters 41 and 42.
Jobs for Veterans State Grant (JVSG)
means an award of Federal financial assistance by the Department to a State for the purposes of the Disabled Veterans' Outreach Program or the Local Veterans' Employment Representative Program.
Program year
is the period from July 1 of a year through June 30 of the following year and is numbered according to the calendar year in which it begins.
§ 1001.162
How does the Department define veteran for purposes of this subpart?
The Department applies two definitions of veteran for the purposes of this subpart and has established two stages for the implementation of these definitions.
(a) The first stage of implementation begins with application of this subpart G to the first program year following May 10, 2013. As of that date, veteran is defined as it is in 38 U.S.C. 4211(4), as a person who:
(1) Served on active duty for a period of more than 180 days and was discharged or released therefrom with other than a dishonorable discharge;
(2) Was discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected disability;
(3) As a member of a reserve component under an order to active duty pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 12301(a), (d), or (g), 12302, or 12304, served on active duty during a period of war or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge is authorized and was discharged or released from such duty with other than a dishonorable discharge; or
(4) Was discharged or released from active duty by reason of a sole survivorship discharge (as that term is defined in 10 U.S.C.1174(i)).
(b) The second stage of implementation begins with the first day of the program year that begins two years after the first day of the program year that State grantees begin collecting and maintaining data as required by 20 CFR 1010.330(c). As of that date, veteran will be defined as it is in 20 CFR 1010.110:
(1) A person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released there from under conditions other than dishonorable, as specified in 38 U.S.C. 101(2).
(2) Active service includes full-time Federal service in the National Guard or a Reserve component, other than full-time duty for training purposes.
(c) During the second stage of implementation, any veteran who meets the definition specified in paragraph (a) of this section will be considered to meet the definition specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) We will notify State grantees when they are required to begin implementing 20 CFR 1010.330(c).
§ 1001.163
What is the national entered employment rate (EER) and what is a State's program year EER for purposes of this part?
(a) For purposes of this part, we use the EER for veterans and eligible persons. This is the EER as applied to veterans (as defined in § 1001.162) and eligible persons (as defined in § 1001.161) who are participants in State employment service delivery systems.
(b) The EER for veterans and eligible persons measures the number of the participants described in paragraph (a) of this section who are employed after exiting an employment service delivery system compared to the total number of those participants who exited. We will issue policy guidance to establish the method of calculating the EER.
(c) The national EER for veterans and eligible persons is the EER achieved by the national State employment service delivery system for those veterans and eligible persons who are participants in all of the State employment service delivery systems for the program year under review. The national EER resulting from this calculation is expressed as a percentage that is rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent.
(d) A State's program year EER is the EER for veterans and eligible persons (as calculated in paragraph (b) of this section) achieved by a single State's employment service delivery system for those veterans and eligible persons who are included in the EER measure for that State's employment
service delivery system for the program year under review. The program year EER resulting from this calculation is expressed as a percentage that is rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent.
§ 1001.164
What is the uniform national threshold EER, and how will it be calculated?
(a) The uniform national threshold EER for a program year is equal to 90 percent of the national EER for veterans and eligible persons (as defined in § 1001.163(c)).
(b) The uniform national threshold EER resulting from this calculation is expressed as a percentage that is rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent.
§ 1001.165
When will the uniform national threshold EER be published?
When practicable, the Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) will publish the uniform national threshold EER for a given program year by the end of December of the calendar year in which that program year ends.
§ 1001.166
How will the uniform national threshold EER be used to evaluate whether a State will be required to submit a Corrective Action Plan (CAP)?
(a)
Comparison.
Each State's program year EER will be compared to the uniform national threshold EER for that program year. State agencies that do not achieve a program year EER that equals or exceeds the uniform national threshold EER (90 percent of the national EER) for the year under review will be subject to a review by VETS, with input from the Employment and Training Administration (ETA), to determine whether the program year EER is deficient.
(b)
Review.
For each State whose program year EER is subject to review to determine deficiency, the review will consider the degree of difference between the State's program year EER and the uniform national threshold EER for that program year, as well as the annual unemployment data for the State as compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
(1) The review also may consider other relevant measures of prevailing economic conditions and regional economic conditions, as well as other measures of the performance of workforce programs and/or any information the State may submit.
(2) The review will include consultation with VETS and ETA field staff about findings from their on-site reviews and desk audits of State agency implementation of policies and procedures for services to veterans and also may include consultation with staff affiliated with other agencies of the Department, as appropriate.
(c)
Requirement of a CAP.
After review, a State whose program year EER is determined not to be deficient will be notified that a CAP will not be required; a State whose program year EER is determined to be deficient will be required to submit a CAP to improve the State's performance in assisting veterans to meet their employment needs as a condition of receiving its next-due JVSG.
(1) Any State whose program year EER has been determined to be deficient will be notified by March 31 of the year following the calendar year in which the program year under review ended.
(2) For any State that is required to submit a CAP, VETS will provide technical assistance (TA), with input from ETA, on the development of the CAP. The CAP must be submitted to the Grant Officer's Technical Representative by June 30 of the year following the calendar year in which the program year under review ended.
(3) We will review the CAP submitted by the State and determine, with input from ETA, whether to approve it or to provide additional TA to the State.
(i) If we approve the CAP, the State must expeditiously implement it.
(ii) If we do not approve the CAP, we will take such steps as are necessary to implement corrective actions to improve the State's EER for veterans and eligible persons.
(4) If a State fails to take the actions we impose under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training may take any actions available to remedy non-compliance under 20 CFR
1001.130(a) (referring to the compliance measures discussed in 20 CFR part 658, subpart H).
§ 1001.167
In addition to the procedures specified in this part, will the Department be conducting any other monitoring of compliance regarding services to veterans?
Yes. We will continue to monitor compliance with the regulations on veterans' priority of service at 20 CFR 1010.240(b) jointly with the ETA. If a State's program year EER is determined to be deficient for a given program year, that deficiency would constitute information to be considered in monitoring priority of service, since failure to fully implement priority of service could be one of the contributors to a deficient program year EER.
Pt. 1002

# PART 1002—REGULATIONS UNDER THE UNIFORMED SERVICES EMPLOYMENT AND REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS ACT OF 1994

# Subpart A—Introduction to the Regulations Under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994

# General Provisions
Sec.
1002.1
What is the purpose of this part?
1002.2
Is USERRA a new law?
1002.3
When did USERRA become effective?
1002.4
What is the role of the Secretary of Labor under USERRA?
1002.5
What definitions apply to USERRA?
1002.6
What types of service in the uniformed services are covered by USERRA?
1002.7
How does USERRA relate to other laws, public and private contracts, and employer practices?

# Subpart B—Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Retaliation

# Protection From Employer Discrimination and Retaliation
1002.18
What status or activity is protected from employer discrimination by USERRA?
1002.19
What activity is protected from employer retaliation by USERRA?
1002.20
Does USERRA protect an individual who does not actually perform service in the uniformed services?
1002.21
Do the Act's prohibitions against discrimination and retaliation apply to all employment positions?
1002.22
Who has the burden of proving discrimination or retaliation in violation of USERRA?
1002.23
What must the individual show to carry the burden of proving that the employer discriminated or retaliated against him or her?

# Subpart C—Eligibility for Reemployment

# General Eligibility Requirements for Reemployment
1002.32
What criteria must the employee meet to be eligible under USERRA for reemployment after service in the uniformed services?
1002.33
Does the employee have to prove that the employer discriminated against him or her in order to be eligible for reemployment?

# Coverage of Employers and Positions
1002.34
Which employers are covered by USERRA?
1002.35
Is a successor in interest an employer covered by USERRA?
1002.36
Can an employer be liable as a successor in interest if it was unaware that an employee may claim reemployment rights when the employer acquired the business?
1002.37
Can one employee be employed in one job by more than one employer?
1002.38
Can a hiring hall be an employer?
1002.39
Are States (and their political subdivisions), the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and United States territories, considered employers?
1002.40
Does USERRA protect against discrimination in initial hiring decisions?
1002.41
Does an employee have rights under USERRA even though he or she holds a temporary, part-time, probationary, or seasonal employment position?
1002.42
What rights does an employee have under USERRA if he or she is on layoff, on strike, or on a leave of absence?
1002.43
Does an individual have rights under USERRA even if he or she is an executive, managerial, or professional employee?
1002.44
Does USERRA cover an independent contractor?

# Coverage of Service in the Uniformed Services
1002.54
Are all military fitness examinations considered “service in the uniformed services?”
1002.55
Is all funeral honors duty considered “service in the uniformed services?”
1002.56
What types of service in the National Disaster Medical System are considered “service in the uniformed services?”
1002.57
Is all service as a member of the National Guard considered “service in the uniformed services?”
1002.58
Is service in the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service considered “service in the uniformed services?”
1002.59
Are there any circumstances in which special categories of persons are considered to perform “service in the uniformed services?”
1002.60
Does USERRA cover an individual attending a military service academy?
1002.61
Does USERRA cover a member of the Reserve Officers Training Corps?
1002.62
Does USERRA cover a member of the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Civil Air Patrol, or the Coast Guard Auxiliary?

# Absence From a Position of Employment Necessitated by Reason of Service in the Uniformed Services
1002.73
Does service in the uniformed services have to be an employee's sole reason for leaving an employment position in order to have USERRA reemployment rights?
1002.74
Must the employee begin service in the uniformed services immediately after leaving his or her employment position in order to have USERRA reemployment rights?

# Requirement of Notice
1002.85
Must the employee give advance notice to the employer of his or her service in the uniformed services?
1002.86
When is the employee excused from giving advance notice of service in the uniformed services?
1002.87
Is the employee required to get permission from his or her employer before leaving to perform service in the uniformed services?
1002.88
Is the employee required to tell his or her civilian employer that he or she intends to seek reemployment after completing uniformed service before the employee leaves to perform service in the uniformed services?

# Period of Service
1002.99
Is there a limit on the total amount of service in the uniformed services that an employee may perform and still retain reemployment rights with the employer?
1002.100
Does the five-year service limit include all absences from an employment position that are related to service in the uniformed services?
1002.101
Does the five-year service limit include periods of service that the employee performed when he or she worked for a previous employer?
1002.102
Does the five-year service limit include periods of service that the employee performed before USERRA was enacted?
1002.103
Are there any types of service in the uniformed services that an employee can perform that do not count against USERRA's five-year service limit?
1002.104
Is the employee required to accommodate his or her employer's needs as to the timing, frequency or duration of service?

# Application for Reemployment
1002.115
Is the employee required to report to or submit a timely application for reemployment to his or her pre-service employer upon completing the period of service in the uniformed services?
1002.116
Is the time period for reporting back to an employer extended if the employee is hospitalized for, or convalescing from, an illness or injury incurred in, or aggravated during, the performance of service?
1002.117
Are there any consequences if the employee fails to report for or submit a timely application for reemployment?
1002.118
Is an application for reemployment required to be in any particular form?
1002.119
To whom must the employee submit the application for reemployment?
1002.120
If the employee seeks or obtains employment with an employer other than the pre-service employer before the end of the period within which a reemployment application must be filed, will that jeopardize reemployment rights with the pre-service employer?
1002.121
Is the employee required to submit documentation to the employer in connection with the application for reemployment?
1002.122
Is the employer required to reemploy the employee if documentation establishing the employee's eligibility does not exist or is not readily available?
1002.123
What documents satisfy the requirement that the employee establish eligibility for reemployment after a period of service of more than thirty days?

# Character of Service
1002.134
What type of discharge or separation from service is required for an employee to be entitled to reemployment under USERRA?
1002.135
What types of discharge or separation from uniformed service will make the employee ineligible for reemployment under USERRA?
1002.136
Who determines the characterization of service?
1002.137
If the employee receives a disqualifying discharge or release from uniformed service and it is later upgraded, will reemployment rights be restored?
1002.138
If the employee receives a retroactive upgrade in the characterization of service, will that entitle him or her to claim back wages and benefits lost as of the date of separation from service?

# Employer Statutory Defenses
1002.139
Are there any circumstances in which the pre-service employer is excused from its obligation to reemploy the employee following a period of uniformed service? What statutory defenses are available to the employer in an action or proceeding for reemployment benefits?

# Subpart D—Rights, Benefits, and Obligations of Persons Absent from Employment Due to Service in the Uniformed Services

# Furlough and Leave of Absence
1002.149
What is the employee's status with his or her civilian employer while performing service in the uniformed services?
1002.150
Which non-seniority rights and benefits is the employee entitled to during a period of service?
1002.151
If the employer provides full or partial pay to the employee while he or she is on military leave, is the employer required to also provide the non-seniority rights and benefits ordinarily granted to similarly situated employees on furlough or leave of absence?
1002.152
If employment is interrupted by a period of service in the uniformed services, are there any circumstances under which the employee is not entitled to the non-seniority rights and benefits ordinarily granted to similarly situated employees on furlough or leave of absence?
1002.153
If employment is interrupted by a period of service in the uniformed services, is the employee permitted upon request to use accrued vacation, annual or similar leave with pay during the service? Can the employer require the employee to use accrued leave during a period of service?

# Health Plan Coverage
1002.163
What types of health plans are covered by USERRA?
1002.164
What health plan coverage must the employer provide for the employee under USERRA?
1002.165
How does the employee elect continuing health plan coverage?
1002.166
How much must the employee pay in order to continue health plan coverage?
1002.167
What actions may a plan administrator take if the employee does not elect or pay for continuing coverage in a timely manner?
1002.168
If the employee's coverage was terminated at the beginning of or during service, does his or her coverage have to be reinstated upon reemployment?
1002.169
Can the employee elect to delay reinstatement of health plan coverage until a date after the date he or she is reemployed?
1002.170
In a multiemployer health plan, how is liability allocated for employer contributions and benefits arising under USERRA's health plan provisions?
1002.171
How does the continuation of health plan benefits apply to a multiemployer plan that provides health plan coverage through a health benefits account system?

# Subpart E—Reemployment Rights and Benefits

# Prompt Reemployment
1002.180
When is an employee entitled to be reemployed by his or her civilian employer?
1002.181
How is “prompt reemployment” defined?

# Reemployment Position
1002.191
What position is the employee entitled to upon reemployment?
1002.192
How is the specific reemployment position determined?
1002.193
Does the reemployment position include elements such as seniority, status, and rate of pay?
1002.194
Can the application of the escalator principle result in adverse consequences when the employee is reemployed?
1002.195
What other factors can determine the reemployment position?
1002.196
What is the employee's reemployment position if the period of service was less than 91 days?
1002.197
What is the reemployment position if the employee's period of service in the uniformed services was more than 90 days?
1002.198
What efforts must the employer make to help the employee become qualified for the reemployment position?
1002.199
What priority must the employer follow if two or more returning employees are entitled to reemployment in the same position?

# Seniority Rights and Benefits
1002.210
What seniority rights does an employee have when reemployed following a period of uniformed service?
1002.211
Does USERRA require the employer to use a seniority system?
1002.212
How does a person know whether a particular right or benefit is a seniority-based right or benefit?
1002.213
How can the employee demonstrate a reasonable certainty that he or she would have received the seniority right or benefit if he or she had remained continuously employed during the period of service?

# Disabled Employees
1002.225
Is the employee entitled to any specific reemployment benefits if he or she has a disability that was incurred in, or aggravated during, the period of service?
1002.226
If the employee has a disability that was incurred in, or aggravated during, the period of service, what efforts must the employer make to help him or her become qualified for the reemployment position?

# Rate of Pay
1002.236
How is the employee's rate of pay determined when he or she returns from a period of service?

# Protection Against Discharge
1002.247
Does USERRA provide the employee with protection against discharge?
1002.248
What constitutes cause for discharge under USERRA?

# Pension Plan Benefits
1002.259
How does USERRA protect an employee's pension benefits?
1002.260
What pension benefit plans are covered under USERRA?
1002.261
Who is responsible for funding any plan obligation to provide the employee with pension benefits?
1002.262
When is the employer required to make the plan contribution that is attributable to the employee's period of uniformed service?
1002.263
Does the employee pay interest when he or she makes up missed contributions or elective deferrals?
1002.264
Is the employee allowed to repay a previous distribution from a pension benefits plan upon being reemployed?
1002.265
If the employee is reemployed with his or her pre-service employer, is the employee's pension benefit the same as if he or she had remained continuously employed?
1002.266
What are the obligations of a multiemployer pension benefit plan under USERRA?
1002.267
How is compensation during the period of service calculated in order to determine the employee's pension benefits, if benefits are based on compensation?

# Subpart F—Compliance Assistance, Enforcement and Remedies

# Compliance Assistance
1002.277
What assistance does the Department of Labor provide to employees and employers concerning employment, reemployment, or other rights and benefits under USERRA?

# Investigation and Referral
1002.288
How does an individual file a USERRA complaint?
1002.289
How will VETS investigate a USERRA complaint?
1002.290
Does VETS have the authority to order compliance with USERRA?
1002.291
What actions may an individual take if the complaint is not resolved by VETS?
1002.292
What can the Attorney General do about the complaint?

# Enforcement of Rights and Benefits Against a State or Private Employer
1002.303
Is an individual required to file his or her complaint with VETS?
1002.304
If an individual files a complaint with VETS and VETS' efforts do not resolve the complaint, can the individual pursue the claim on his or her own?
1002.305
What court has jurisdiction in an action against a State or private employer?
1002.306
Is a National Guard civilian technician considered a State or Federal employee for purposes of USERRA?
1002.307
What is the proper venue in an action against a State or private employer?
1002.308
Who has legal standing to bring an action under USERRA?
1002.309
Who is a necessary party in an action under USERRA?
1002.310
How are fees and court costs charged or taxed in an action under USERRA?
1002.311
Is there a statute of limitations in an action under USERRA?
1002.312
What remedies may be awarded for a violation of USERRA?
1002.313
Are there special damages provisions that apply to actions initiated in the name of the United States?
1002.314
May a court use its equity powers in an action or proceeding under the Act?
Appendix to Part 1002—Notice of Your Rights Under USERRA

# Authority:
Section 4331(a) of the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA), 38 U.S.C. 4331(a) (Pub. L. 103-353, 108 Stat. 3150).

# Source:
70 FR 75292, Dec. 19, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Introduction to the Regulations Under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994

# General Provisions
§ 1002.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part implements the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (“USERRA” or “the Act”). 38 U.S.C. 4301-4334. USERRA is a law that establishes certain rights and benefits for employees, and duties for employers. USERRA affects employment, reemployment, and retention in employment, when employees serve or have served in the uniformed services. There are five subparts to these regulations. Subpart A gives an introduction to the USERRA regulations. Subpart B describes USERRA's anti-discrimination and anti-retaliation provisions. Subpart C explains the steps that must be taken by a uniformed service member who wants to return to his or her previous civilian employment. Subpart D describes the rights, benefits, and obligations of persons absent from employment due to service in the uniformed services, including rights and obligations related to health plan coverage. Subpart E describes the rights, benefits, and obligations of the returning veteran or service member. Subpart F explains the role of the Department of Labor in enforcing and giving assistance under USERRA. These regulations implement USERRA as it applies to States, local governments, and private employers. Separate regulations published by the Federal Office of Personnel Management implement USERRA for Federal executive agency employers and employees.
§ 1002.2
Is USERRA a new law?
USERRA is the latest in a series of laws protecting veterans' employment and reemployment rights going back to the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940. USERRA's immediate predecessor was commonly referred to as the Veterans' Reemployment Rights Act (VRRA), which was enacted as section 404 of the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974. In enacting USERRA, Congress emphasized USERRA's continuity with the VRRA and its intention to clarify and strengthen that law. Congress also emphasized that Federal laws protecting veterans' employment and reemployment rights for the past fifty years had been successful and that the large body of case law that had developed under those statutes remained in full force and effect, to the extent it is consistent with USERRA. USERRA authorized the Department of Labor to publish regulations implementing the Act for State, local government, and private employers. USERRA also authorized the Office of Personnel Management to issue regulations implementing the Act for Federal executive agencies (other than some Federal intelligence agencies). USERRA established a separate program for employees of some Federal intelligence agencies.
§ 1002.3
When did USERRA become effective?
USERRA became law on October 13, 1994. USERRA's reemployment provisions apply to members of the uniformed services seeking civilian reemployment on or after December 12, 1994. USERRA's anti-discrimination and anti-retaliation provisions became effective on October 13, 1994.
§ 1002.4
What is the role of the Secretary of Labor under USERRA?
(a) USERRA charges the Secretary of Labor (through the Veterans' Employment and Training Service) with providing assistance to any person with respect to the employment and reemployment rights and benefits to which such person is entitled under the Act. More information about the Secretary's role in providing this assistance is contained in Subpart F.
(b) USERRA also authorizes the Secretary of Labor to issue regulations implementing the Act with respect to States, local governments, and private employers. These regulations are issued under this authority.
(c) The Secretary of Labor delegated authority to the Assistant Secretary
for Veterans' Employment and Training for administering the veterans' reemployment rights program by Secretary's Order 1-83 (February 3, 1983) and for carrying out the functions and authority vested in the Secretary pursuant to USERRA by memorandum of April 22, 2002 (67 FR 31827).
§ 1002.5
What definitions apply to USERRA?
(a)
Attorney General
means the Attorney General of the United States or any person designated by the Attorney General to carry out a responsibility of the Attorney General under USERRA.
(b)
Benefit, benefit of employment, or rights and benefits
means any advantage, profit, privilege, gain, status, account, or interest (other than wages or salary for work performed) that accrues to the employee because of an employment contract, employment agreement, or employer policy, plan, or practice. The term includes rights and benefits under a pension plan, health plan, or employee stock ownership plan, insurance coverage and awards, bonuses, severance pay, supplemental unemployment benefits, vacations, and the opportunity to select work hours or the location of employment.
(c)
Employee
means any person employed by an employer. The term also includes any person who is a citizen, national or permanent resident alien of the United States who is employed in a workplace in a foreign country by an employer that is an entity incorporated or organized in the United States, or that is controlled by an entity organized in the United States. “Employee” includes the former employees of an employer.
(d)(1)
Employer
, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section, means any person, institution, organization, or other entity that pays salary or wages for work performed, or that has control over employment opportunities, including—
(i) A person, institution, organization, or other entity to whom the employer has delegated the performance of employment-related responsibilities, except in the case that such entity has been delegated functions that are purely ministerial in nature, such as maintenance of personnel files or the preparation of forms for submission to a government agency;
(ii) The Federal Government;
(iii) A State;
(iv) Any successor in interest to a person, institution, organization, or other entity referred to in this definition; and,
(v) A person, institution, organization, or other entity that has denied initial employment in violation of 38 U.S.C. 4311, USERRA's anti-discrimination and anti-retaliation provisions.
(2) In the case of a National Guard technician employed under 32 U.S.C. 709, the term “employer” means the adjutant general of the State in which the technician is employed.
(3) An employee pension benefit plan as described in section 3(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA)(29 U.S.C. 1002(2)) is considered an employer for an individual that it does not actually employ only with respect to the obligation to provide pension benefits.
(e)
Health plan
means an insurance policy, insurance contract, medical or hospital service agreement, membership or subscription contract, or other arrangement under which health services for individuals are provided or the expenses of such services are paid.
(f)
National Disaster Medical System (NDMS)
is an agency within the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security, established by the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, Public Law 107-188. The NDMS provides medical-related assistance to respond to the needs of victims of public health emergencies. Participants in the NDMS are volunteers who serve as intermittent Federal employees when activated. For purposes of USERRA coverage only, these persons are treated as members of the uniformed services when they are activated to provide assistance in response to a public health emergency or to be present for a short period of time when there is a risk of a public health emergency, or when they are participating in authorized training. See 42 U.S.C. 300hh-11(e).
(g)
Notice
, when the employee is required to give advance notice of service, means any written or verbal notification of an obligation or intention to perform service in the uniformed services provided to an employer by the employee who will perform such service, or by the uniformed service in which the service is to be performed.
(h)
Qualified
, with respect to an employment position, means having the ability to perform the essential tasks of the position.
(i)
Reasonable efforts
, in the case of actions required of an employer, means actions, including training provided by an employer that do not place an undue hardship on the employer.
(j)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor or any person designated by the Secretary of Labor to carry out an activity under USERRA and these regulations, unless a different office is expressly indicated in the regulation.
(k)
Seniority
means longevity in employment together with any benefits of employment that accrue with, or are determined by, longevity in employment.
(l)
Service in the uniformed services
means the performance of duty on a voluntary or involuntary basis in a uniformed service under competent authority. Service in the uniformed services includes active duty, active and inactive duty for training, National Guard duty under Federal statute, and a period for which a person is absent from a position of employment for an examination to determine the fitness of the person to perform such duty. The term also includes a period for which a person is absent from employment to perform funeral honors duty as authorized by law (10 U.S.C. 12503 or 32 U.S.C. 115). The Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, Pub. L. 107-188, provides that service as an intermittent disaster-response appointee upon activation of the National Disaster Medical System (NDMS) or as a participant in an authorized training program is deemed “service in the uniformed services.” 42 U.S.C. 300hh-11(e)(3).
(m)
State
means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and other territories of the United States (including the agencies and political subdivisions thereof); however, for purposes of enforcement of rights under 38 U.S.C. 4323, a political subdivision of a State is a private employer.
(n)
Undue hardship
, in the case of actions taken by an employer, means an action requiring significant difficulty or expense, when considered in light of—
(1) The nature and cost of the action needed under USERRA and these regulations;
(2) The overall financial resources of the facility or facilities involved in the provision of the action; the number of persons employed at such facility; the effect on expenses and resources, or the impact otherwise of such action upon the operation of the facility;
(3) The overall financial resources of the employer; the overall size of the business of an employer with respect to the number of its employees; the number, type, and location of its facilities; and,
(4) The type of operation or operations of the employer, including the composition, structure, and functions of the work force of such employer; the geographic separateness, administrative, or fiscal relationship of the facility or facilities in question to the employer.
(o)
Uniformed services
means the Armed Forces; the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard when engaged in active duty for training, inactive duty training, or full-time National Guard duty; the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service; and any other category of persons designated by the President in time of war or national emergency. For purposes of USERRA coverage only, service as an intermittent disaster response appointee of the NDMS when federally activated or attending authorized training in support of their Federal mission is deemed “service in the uniformed services,” although such appointee is not a member of the “uniformed services” as defined by USERRA.
§ 1002.6
What types of service in the uniformed services are covered by USERRA?
USERRA's definition of “service in the uniformed services” covers all categories of military training and service, including duty performed on a voluntary or involuntary basis, in time of peace or war. Although most often understood as applying to National Guard and reserve military personnel, USERRA also applies to persons serving in the active components of the Armed Forces. Certain types of service specified in 42 U.S.C. 300hh-11 by members of the National Disaster Medical System are covered by USERRA.
§ 1002.7
How does USERRA relate to other laws, public and private contracts, and employer practices?
(a) USERRA establishes a floor, not a ceiling, for the employment and reemployment rights and benefits of those it protects. In other words, an employer may provide greater rights and benefits than USERRA requires, but no employer can refuse to provide any right or benefit guaranteed by USERRA.
(b) USERRA supersedes any State law (including any local law or ordinance), contract, agreement, policy, plan, practice, or other matter that reduces, limits, or eliminates in any manner any right or benefit provided by USERRA, including the establishment of additional prerequisites to the exercise of any USERRA right or the receipt of any USERRA benefit. For example, an employment contract that determines seniority based only on actual days of work in the place of employment would be superseded by USERRA, which requires that seniority credit be given for periods of absence from work due to service in the uniformed services.
(c) USERRA does not supersede, nullify or diminish any Federal or State law (including any local law or ordinance), contract, agreement, policy, plan, practice, or other matter that establishes an employment right or benefit that is more beneficial than, or is in addition to, a right or benefit provided under the Act. For example, although USERRA does not require an employer to pay an employee for time away from work performing service, an employer policy, plan, or practice that provides such a benefit is permissible under USERRA.
(d) If an employer provides a benefit that exceeds USERRA's requirements in one area, it cannot reduce or limit other rights or benefits provided by USERRA. For example, even though USERRA does not require it, an employer may provide a fixed number of days of paid military leave per year to employees who are members of the National Guard or Reserve. The fact that it provides such a benefit, however, does not permit an employer to refuse to provide an unpaid leave of absence to an employee to perform service in the uniformed services in excess of the number of days of paid military leave.

# Subpart B—Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Retaliation

# Protection From Employer Discrimination and Retaliation
§ 1002.18
What status or activity is protected from employer discrimination by USERRA?
An employer must not deny initial employment, reemployment, retention in employment, promotion, or any benefit of employment to an individual on the basis of his or her membership, application for membership, performance of service, application for service, or obligation for service in the uniformed services.
§ 1002.19
What activity is protected from employer retaliation by USERRA?
An employer must not retaliate against an individual by taking any adverse employment action against him or her because the individual has taken an action to enforce a protection afforded any person under USERRA; testified or otherwise made a statement in or in connection with a proceeding under USERRA; assisted or participated in a USERRA investigation: or, exercised a right provided for by USERRA.
§ 1002.20
Does USERRA protect an individual who does not actually perform service in the uniformed services?
Yes. Employers are prohibited from taking actions against an individual for any of the activities protected by the Act, whether or not he or she has performed service in the uniformed services.
§ 1002.21
Do the Act's prohibitions against discrimination and retaliation apply to all employment positions?
The prohibitions against discrimination and retaliation apply to all covered employers (including hiring halls and potential employers, see sections 1002.36 and .38) and employment positions, including those that are for a brief, nonrecurrent period, and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the employment position will continue indefinitely or for a significant period. However, USERRA's reemployment rights and benefits do not apply to such brief, nonrecurrent positions of employment.
§ 1002.22
Who has the burden of proving discrimination or retaliation in violation of USERRA?
The individual has the burden of proving that a status or activity protected by USERRA was one of the reasons that the employer took action against him or her, in order to establish that the action was discrimination or retaliation in violation of USERRA. If the individual succeeds in proving that the status or activity protected by USERRA was one of the reasons the employer took action against him or her, the employer has the burden to prove the affirmative defense that it would have taken the action anyway.
§ 1002.23
What must the individual show to carry the burden of proving that the employer discriminated or retaliated against him or her?
(a) In order to prove that the employer discriminated or retaliated against the individual, he or she must first show that the employer's action was motivated by one or more of the following:
(1) Membership or application for membership in a uniformed service;
(2) Performance of service, application for service, or obligation for service in a uniformed service;
(3) Action taken to enforce a protection afforded any person under USERRA;
(4) Testimony or statement made in or in connection with a USERRA proceeding;
(5) Assistance or participation in a USERRA investigation; or,
(6) Exercise of a right provided for by USERRA.
(b) If the individual proves that the employer's action was based on one of the prohibited motives listed in paragraph (a) of this section, the employer has the burden to prove the affirmative defense that the action would have been taken anyway absent the USERRA-protected status or activity.

# Subpart C—Eligibility For Reemployment

# General Eligibility Requirements for Reemployment
§ 1002.32
What criteria must the employee meet to be eligible under USERRA for reemployment after service in the uniformed services?
(a) In general, if the employee has been absent from a position of civilian employment by reason of service in the uniformed services, he or she will be eligible for reemployment under USERRA by meeting the following criteria:
(1) The employer had advance notice of the employee's service;
(2) The employee has five years or less of cumulative service in the uniformed services in his or her employment relationship with a particular employer;
(3) The employee timely returns to work or applies for reemployment; and,
(4) The employee has not been separated from service with a disqualifying discharge or under other than honorable conditions.
(b) These general eligibility requirements have important qualifications and exceptions, which are described in detail in §§ 1002.73 through 1002.138. If the employee meets these eligibility criteria, then he or she is eligible for
reemployment unless the employer establishes one of the defenses described in § 1002.139. The employment position to which the employee is entitled is described in §§ 1002.191 through 1002.199.
§ 1002.33
Does the employee have to prove that the employer discriminated against him or her in order to be eligible for reemployment?
No. The employee is not required to prove that the employer discriminated against him or her because of the employee's uniformed service in order to be eligible for reemployment.

# Coverage of Employers and Positions
§ 1002.34
Which employers are covered by USERRA?
(a) USERRA applies to all public and private employers in the United States, regardless of size. For example, an employer with only one employee is covered for purposes of the Act.
(b) USERRA applies to foreign employers doing business in the United States. A foreign employer that has a physical location or branch in the United States (including U.S. territories and possessions) must comply with USERRA for any of its employees who are employed in the United States.
(c) An American company operating either directly or through an entity under its control in a foreign country must also comply with USERRA for all its foreign operations, unless compliance would violate the law of the foreign country in which the workplace is located.
§ 1002.35
Is a successor in interest an employer covered by USERRA?
USERRA's definition of “employer” includes a successor in interest. In general, an employer is a successor in interest where there is a substantial continuity in operations, facilities, and workforce from the former employer. The determination whether an employer is a successor in interest must be made on a case-by-case basis using a multi-factor test that considers the following:
(a) Whether there has been a substantial continuity of business operations from the former to the current employer;
(b) Whether the current employer uses the same or similar facilities, machinery, equipment, and methods of production;
(c) Whether there has been a substantial continuity of employees;
(d) Whether there is a similarity of jobs and working conditions;
(e) Whether there is a similarity of supervisors or managers; and,
(f) Whether there is a similarity of products or services.
§ 1002.36
Can an employer be liable as a successor in interest if it was unaware that an employee may claim reemployment rights when the employer acquired the business?
Yes. In order to be a successor in interest, it is not necessary for an employer to have notice of a potential reemployment claim at the time of merger, acquisition, or other form of succession.
§ 1002.37
Can one employee be employed in one job by more than one employer?
Yes. Under USERRA, an employer includes not only the person or entity that pays an employee's salary or wages, but also includes a person or entity that has control over his or her employment opportunities, including a person or entity to whom an employer has delegated the performance of employment-related responsibilities. For example, if the employee is a security guard hired by a security company and he or she is assigned to a work site, the employee may report both to the security company and to the site owner. In such an instance, both employers share responsibility for compliance with USERRA. If the security company declines to assign the employee to a job because of a uniformed service obligation (for example, National Guard duties), then the security company could be in violation of the reemployment requirements and the anti-discrimination provisions of USERRA. Similarly, if the employer at the work site causes the employee's removal from the job position because of his or her uniformed service obligations, then the work site employer could be in violation of the reemployment requirements and the anti-discrimination provisions of USERRA.
§ 1002.38
Can a hiring hall be an employer?
Yes. In certain occupations (for example, longshoreman, stagehand, construction worker), the employee may frequently work for many different employers. A hiring hall operated by a union or an employer association typically assigns the employee to the jobs. In these industries, it may not be unusual for the employee to work his or her entire career in a series of short-term job assignments. The definition of “employer” includes a person, institution, organization, or other entity to which the employer has delegated the performance of employment-related responsibilities. A hiring hall therefore is considered the employee's employer if the hiring and job assignment functions have been delegated by an employer to the hiring hall. As the employer, a hiring hall has reemployment responsibilities to its employees. USERRA's anti-discrimination and anti-retaliation provisions also apply to the hiring hall.
§ 1002.39
Are States (and their political subdivisions), the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and United States territories, considered employers?
Yes. States and their political subdivisions, such as counties, parishes, cities, towns, villages, and school districts, are considered employers under USERRA. The District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and territories of the United States, are also considered employers under the Act.
§ 1002.40
Does USERRA protect against discrimination in initial hiring decisions?
Yes. The Act's definition of employer includes a person, institution, organization, or other entity that has denied initial employment to an individual in violation of USERRA's anti-discrimination provisions. An employer need not actually employ an individual to be his or her “employer” under the Act, if it has denied initial employment on the basis of the individual's membership, application for membership, performance of service, application for service, or obligation for service in the uniformed services. Similarly, the employer would be liable if it denied initial employment on the basis of the individual's action taken to enforce a protection afforded to any person under USERRA, his or her testimony or statement in connection with any USERRA proceeding, assistance or other participation in a USERRA investigation, or the exercise of any other right provided by the Act. For example, if the individual has been denied initial employment because of his or her obligations as a member of the National Guard or Reserves, the company or entity denying employment is an employer for purposes of USERRA. Similarly, if an entity withdraws an offer of employment because the individual is called upon to fulfill an obligation in the uniformed services, the entity withdrawing the employment offer is an employer for purposes of USERRA.
§ 1002.41
Does an employee have rights under USERRA even though he or she holds a temporary, part-time, probationary, or seasonal employment position?
USERRA rights are not diminished because an employee holds a temporary, part-time, probationary, or seasonal employment position. However, an employer is not required to reemploy an employee if the employment he or she left to serve in the uniformed services was for a brief, nonrecurrent period and there is no reasonable expectation that the employment would have continued indefinitely or for a significant period. The employer bears the burden of proving this affirmative defense.
§ 1002.42
What rights does an employee have under USERRA if he or she is on layoff, on strike, or on a leave of absence?
(a) If an employee is laid off with recall rights, on strike, or on a leave of absence, he or she is an employee for purposes of USERRA. If the employee is on layoff and begins service in the uniformed services, or is laid off while performing service, he or she may be entitled to reemployment on return if the employer would have recalled the employee to employment during the period of service. Similar principles
apply if the employee is on strike or on a leave of absence from work when he or she begins a period of service in the uniformed services.
(b) If the employee is sent a recall notice during a period of service in the uniformed services and cannot resume the position of employment because of the service, he or she still remains an employee for purposes of the Act. Therefore, if the employee is otherwise eligible, he or she is entitled to reemployment following the conclusion of the period of service even if he or she did not respond to the recall notice.
(c) If the employee is laid off before or during service in the uniformed services, and the employer would not have recalled him or her during that period of service, the employee is not entitled to reemployment following the period of service simply because he or she is a covered employee. Reemployment rights under USERRA cannot put the employee in a better position than if he or she had remained in the civilian employment position.
§ 1002.43
Does an individual have rights under USERRA even if he or she is an executive, managerial, or professional employee?
Yes. USERRA applies to all employees. There is no exclusion for executive, managerial, or professional employees.
§ 1002.44
Does USERRA cover an independent contractor?
(a) No. USERRA does not provide protections for an independent contractor.
(b) In deciding whether an individual is an independent contractor, the following factors need to be considered:
(1) The extent of the employer's right to control the manner in which the individual's work is to be performed;
(2) The opportunity for profit or loss that depends upon the individual's managerial skill;
(3) Any investment in equipment or materials required for the individual's tasks, or his or her employment of helpers;
(4) Whether the service the individual performs requires a special skill;
(5) The degree of permanence of the individual's working relationship; and,
(6) Whether the service the individual performs is an integral part of the employer's business.
(c) No single one of these factors is controlling, but all are relevant to determining whether an individual is an employee or an independent contractor.

# Coverage of Service in the Uniformed Services
§ 1002.54
Are all military fitness examinations considered “service in the uniformed services?”
Yes. USERRA's definition of “service in the uniformed services” includes a period for which an employee is absent from a position of employment for the purpose of an examination to determine his or her fitness to perform duty in the uniformed services. Military fitness examinations can address more than physical or medical fitness, and include evaluations for mental, educational, and other types of fitness. Any examination to determine an employee's fitness for service is covered, whether it is an initial or recurring examination. For example, a periodic medical examination required of a Reserve component member to determine fitness for continued service is covered.
§ 1002.55
Is all funeral honors duty considered “service in the uniformed services?”
(a) USERRA's definition of “service in the uniformed services” includes a period for which an employee is absent from employment for the purpose of performing authorized funeral honors duty under 10 U.S.C. 12503 (members of Reserve ordered to perform funeral honors duty) or 32 U.S.C. 115 (Member of Air or Army National Guard ordered to perform funeral honors duty).
(b) Funeral honors duty performed by persons who are not members of the uniformed services, such as members of veterans' service organizations, is not “service in the uniformed services.”
§ 1002.56
What types of service in the National Disaster Medical System are considered “service in the uniformed services?”
Under a provision of the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, 42
U.S.C. 300hh 11(e)(3), “service in the uniformed services” includes service performed as an intermittent disaster-response appointee upon activation of the National Disaster Medical System or participation in an authorized training program, even if the individual is not a member of the uniformed services.
§ 1002.57
Is all service as a member of the National Guard considered “service in the uniformed services?”
The National Guard has a dual status. It is a Reserve component of the Army, or, in the case of the Air National Guard, of the Air Force. Simultaneously, it is a State military force subject to call-up by the State Governor for duty not subject to Federal control, such as emergency duty in cases of floods or riots. National Guard members may perform service under either Federal or State authority, but only Federal National Guard service is covered by USERRA.
(a) National Guard service under Federal authority is protected by USERRA. Service under Federal authority includes active duty performed under Title 10 of the United States Code. Service under Federal authority also includes duty under Title 32 of the United States Code, such as active duty for training, inactive duty training, or full-time National Guard duty.
(b) National Guard service under authority of State law is not protected by USERRA. However, many States have laws protecting the civilian job rights of National Guard members who serve under State orders. Enforcement of those State laws is not covered by USERRA or these regulations.
§ 1002.58
Is service in the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service considered “service in the uniformed services?”
Yes. Service in the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service (PHS) is “service in the uniformed services” under USERRA.
§ 1002.59
Are there any circumstances in which special categories of persons are considered to perform “service in the uniformed services?”
Yes. In time of war or national emergency the President has authority to designate any category of persons as a “uniformed service” for purposes of USERRA. If the President exercises this authority, service as a member of that category of persons would be “service in the uniformed services” under USERRA.
§ 1002.60
Does USERRA cover an individual attending a military service academy?
Yes. Attending a military service academy is considered uniformed service for purposes of USERRA. There are four service academies: The United States Military Academy (West Point, New York), the United States Naval Academy (Annapolis, Maryland), the United States Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, Colorado), and the United States Coast Guard Academy (New London, Connecticut).
§ 1002.61
Does USERRA cover a member of the Reserve Officers Training Corps?
Yes, under certain conditions.
(a) Membership in the Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) or the Junior ROTC is not “service in the uniformed services.” However, some Reserve and National Guard enlisted members use a college ROTC program as a means of qualifying for commissioned officer status. National Guard and Reserve members in an ROTC program may at times, while participating in that program, be receiving active duty and inactive duty training service credit with their unit. In these cases, participating in ROTC training sessions is considered “service in the uniformed services,” and qualifies a person for protection under USERRA's reemployment and anti-discrimination provisions.
(b) Typically, an individual in a College ROTC program enters into an agreement with a particular military service that obligates such individual to either complete the ROTC program and accept a commission or, in case he or she does not successfully complete the ROTC program, to serve as an enlisted member. Although an individual does not qualify for reemployment protection, except as specified in (a) above, he or she is protected under
USERRA's anti-discrimination provisions because, as a result of the agreement, he or she has applied to become a member of the uniformed services and has incurred an obligation to perform future service.
§ 1002.62
Does USERRA cover a member of the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Civil Air Patrol, or the Coast Guard Auxiliary?
No. Although the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is a “uniformed service” for some purposes, it is not included in USERRA's definition of this term. Service in the Civil Air Patrol and the Coast Guard Auxiliary similarly is not considered “service in the uniformed services” for purposes of USERRA. Consequently, service performed in the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Civil Air Patrol, and the Coast Guard Auxiliary is not protected by USERRA.

# Absence From a Position of Employment Necessitated by Reason of Service in the Uniformed Services
§ 1002.73
Does service in the uniformed services have to be an employee's sole reason for leaving an employment position in order to have USERRA reemployment rights?
No. If absence from a position of employment is necessitated by service in the uniformed services, and the employee otherwise meets the Act's eligibility requirements, he or she has reemployment rights under USERRA, even if the employee uses the absence for other purposes as well. An employee is not required to leave the employment position for the sole purpose of performing service in the uniformed services. For example, if the employee is required to report to an out of State location for military training and he or she spends off-duty time during that assignment moonlighting as a security guard or visiting relatives who live in that State, the employee will not lose reemployment rights simply because he or she used some of the time away from the job to do something other than attend the military training. Also, if an employee receives advance notification of a mobilization order, and leaves his or her employment position in order to prepare for duty, but the mobilization is cancelled, the employee will not lose any reemployment rights.
§ 1002.74
Must the employee begin service in the uniformed services immediately after leaving his or her employment position in order to have USERRA reemployment rights?
No. At a minimum, an employee must have enough time after leaving the employment position to travel safely to the uniformed service site and arrive fit to perform the service. Depending on the specific circumstances, including the duration of service, the amount of notice received, and the location of the service, additional time to rest, or to arrange affairs and report to duty, may be necessitated by reason of service in the uniformed services. The following examples help to explain the issue of the period of time between leaving civilian employment and beginning of service in the uniformed services:
(a) If the employee performs a full overnight shift for the civilian employer and travels directly from the work site to perform a full day of uniformed service, the employee would not be considered fit to perform the uniformed service. An absence from that work shift is necessitated so that the employee can report for uniformed service fit for duty.
(b) If the employee is ordered to perform an extended period of service in the uniformed services, he or she may require a reasonable period of time off from the civilian job to put his or her personal affairs in order, before beginning the service. Taking such time off is also necessitated by the uniformed service.
(c) If the employee leaves a position of employment in order to enlist or otherwise perform service in the uniformed services and, through no fault of his or her own, the beginning date of the service is delayed, this delay does not terminate any reemployment rights.

# Requirement of Notice
§ 1002.85
Must the employee give advance notice to the employer of his or her service in the uniformed services?
(a) Yes. The employee, or an appropriate officer of the uniformed service in which his or her service is to be performed, must notify the employer that the employee intends to leave the employment position to perform service in the uniformed services, with certain exceptions described below. In cases in which an employee is employed by more than one employer, the employee, or an appropriate office of the uniformed service in which his or her service is to be performed, must notify each employer that the employee intends to leave the employment position to perform service in the uniformed services, with certain exceptions described below.
(b) The Department of Defense USERRA regulations at 32 CFR 104.3 provide that an “appropriate officer” can give notice on the employee's behalf. An “appropriate officer” is a commissioned, warrant, or non-commissioned officer authorized to give such notice by the military service concerned.
(c) The employee's notice to the employer may be either verbal or written. The notice may be informal and does not need to follow any particular format.
(d) Although USERRA does not specify how far in advance notice must be given to the employer, an employee should provide notice as far in advance as is reasonable under the circumstances. In regulations promulgated by the Department of Defense under USERRA, 32 CFR 104.6(a)(2)(i)(B), the Defense Department “strongly recommends that advance notice to civilian employers be provided at least 30 days prior to departure for uniformed service when it is feasible to do so.”
§ 1002.86
When is the employee excused from giving advance notice of service in the uniformed services?
The employee is required to give advance notice of pending service unless giving such notice is prevented by military necessity, or is otherwise impossible or unreasonable under all the circumstances.
(a) Only a designated authority can make a determination of “military necessity,” and such a determination is not subject to judicial review. Guidelines for defining “military necessity” appear in regulations issued by the Department of Defense at 32 CFR 104.3. In general, these regulations cover situations where a mission, operation, exercise or requirement is classified, or could be compromised or otherwise adversely affected by public knowledge. In certain cases, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, can make a determination that giving of notice by intermittent disaster-response appointees of the National Disaster Medical System is precluded by “military necessity.” See 42 U.S.C. 300hh-11(e)(3)(B).
(b) It may be impossible or unreasonable to give advance notice under certain circumstances. Such circumstances may include the unavailability of the employee's employer or the employer's representative, or a requirement that the employee report for uniformed service in an extremely short period of time.
§ 1002.87
Is the employee required to get permission from his or her employer before leaving to perform service in the uniformed services?
No. The employee is not required to ask for or get his or her employer's permission to leave to perform service in the uniformed services. The employee is only required to give the employer notice of pending service.
§ 1002.88
Is the employee required to tell his or her civilian employer that he or she intends to seek reemployment after completing uniformed service before the employee leaves to perform service in the uniformed services?
No. When the employee leaves the employment position to begin a period of service, he or she is not required to tell the civilian employer that he or she intends to seek reemployment after completing uniformed service. Even if the employee tells the employer before entering or completing uniformed service that he or she does not intend to
seek reemployment after completing the uniformed service, the employee does not forfeit the right to reemployment after completing service. The employee is not required to decide in advance of leaving the civilian employment position whether he or she will seek reemployment after completing uniformed service.

# Period of Service
§ 1002.99
Is there a limit on the total amount of service in the uniformed services that an employee may perform and still retain reemployment rights with the employer?
Yes. In general, the employee may perform service in the uniformed services for a cumulative period of up to five (5) years and retain reemployment rights with the employer. The exceptions to this rule are described below.
§ 1002.100
Does the five-year service limit include all absences from an employment position that are related to service in the uniformed services?
No. The five-year period includes only the time the employee spends actually performing service in the uniformed services. A period of absence from employment before or after performing service in the uniformed services does not count against the five-year limit. For example, after the employee completes a period of service in the uniformed services, he or she is provided a certain amount of time, depending upon the length of service, to report back to work or submit an application for reemployment. The period between completing the uniformed service and reporting back to work or seeking reemployment does not count against the five-year limit.
§ 1002.101
Does the five-year service limit include periods of service that the employee performed when he or she worked for a previous employer?
No. An employee is entitled to a leave of absence for uniformed service for up to five years with each employer for whom he or she works. When the employee takes a position with a new employer, the five-year period begins again regardless of how much service he or she performed while working in any previous employment relationship. If an employee is employed by more than one employer, a separate five-year period runs as to each employer independently, even if those employers share or co-determine the employee's terms and conditions of employment.
§ 1002.102
Does the five-year service limit include periods of service that the employee performed before USERRA was enacted?
It depends. USERRA provides reemployment rights to which an employee may become entitled beginning on or after December 12, 1994, but any uniformed service performed before December 12, 1994, that was counted against the service limitations of the previous law (the Veterans Reemployment Rights Act), also counts against USERRA's five-year limit.
§ 1002.103
Are there any types of service in the uniformed services that an employee can perform that do not count against USERRA's five-year service limit?
(a) USERRA creates the following exceptions to the five-year limit on service in the uniformed services:
(1) Service that is required beyond five years to complete an initial period of obligated service. Some military specialties require an individual to serve more than five years because of the amount of time or expense involved in training. If the employee works in one of those specialties, he or she has reemployment rights when the initial period of obligated service is completed;
(2) If the employee was unable to obtain orders releasing him or her from service in the uniformed services before the expiration of the five-year period, and the inability was not the employee's fault;
(3)(i) Service performed to fulfill periodic National Guard and Reserve training requirements as prescribed by 10 U.S.C. 10147 and 32 U.S.C. 502(a) and 503; and,
(ii) Service performed to fulfill additional training requirements determined and certified by a proper military authority as necessary for the employee's professional development, or
to complete skill training or retraining;
(4) Service performed in a uniformed service if he or she was ordered to or retained on active duty under:
(i) 10 U.S.C. 688 (involuntary active duty by a military retiree);
(ii) 10 U.S.C. 12301(a) (involuntary active duty in wartime);
(iii) 10 U.S.C. 12301(g) (retention on active duty while in captive status);
(iv) 10 U.S.C. 12302 (involuntary active duty during a national emergency for up to 24 months);
(v) 10 U.S.C. 12304 (involuntary active duty for an operational mission for up to 270 days);
(vi) 10 U.S.C. 12305 (involuntary retention on active duty of a critical person during time of crisis or other specific conditions);
(vii) 14 U.S.C. 331 (involuntary active duty by retired Coast Guard officer);
(viii) 14 U.S.C. 332 (voluntary active duty by retired Coast Guard officer);
(ix) 14 U.S.C. 359 (involuntary active duty by retired Coast Guard enlisted member);
(x) 14 U.S.C. 360 (voluntary active duty by retired Coast Guard enlisted member);
(xi) 14 U.S.C. 367 (involuntary retention of Coast Guard enlisted member on active duty); and
(xii) 14 U.S.C. 712 (involuntary active duty by Coast Guard Reserve member for natural or man-made disasters).
(5) Service performed in a uniformed service if the employee was ordered to or retained on active duty (other than for training) under any provision of law because of a war or national emergency declared by the President or the Congress, as determined by the Secretary concerned;
(6) Service performed in a uniformed service if the employee was ordered to active duty (other than for training) in support of an operational mission for which personnel have been ordered to active duty under 10 U.S.C. 12304, as determined by a proper military authority;
(7) Service performed in a uniformed service if the employee was ordered to active duty in support of a critical mission or requirement of the uniformed services as determined by the Secretary concerned; and,
(8) Service performed as a member of the National Guard if the employee was called to respond to an invasion, danger of invasion, rebellion, danger of rebellion, insurrection, or the inability of the President with regular forces to execute the laws of the United States.
(b) Service performed to mitigate economic harm where the employee's employer is in violation of its employment or reemployment obligations to him or her.
§ 1002.104
Is the employee required to accommodate his or her employer's needs as to the timing, frequency or duration of service?
No. The employee is not required to accommodate his or her employer's interests or concerns regarding the timing, frequency, or duration of uniformed service. The employer cannot refuse to reemploy the employee because it believes that the timing, frequency or duration of the service is unreasonable. However, the employer is permitted to bring its concerns over the timing, frequency, or duration of the employee's service to the attention of the appropriate military authority. Regulations issued by the Department of Defense at 32 CFR 104.4 direct military authorities to provide assistance to an employer in addressing these types of employment issues. The military authorities are required to consider requests from employers of National Guard and Reserve members to adjust scheduled absences from civilian employment to perform service.

# Application for Reemployment
§ 1002.115
Is the employee required to report to or submit a timely application for reemployment to his or her pre-service employer upon completing the period of service in the uniformed services?
Yes. Upon completing service in the uniformed services, the employee must notify the pre-service employer of his or her intent to return to the employment position by either reporting to work or submitting a timely application for reemployment. Whether the employee is required to report to work or submit a timely application for reemployment depends upon the length of service, as follows:
(a)
Period of service less than 31 days or for a period of any length for the purpose of a fitness examination.
If the period of service in the uniformed services was less than 31 days, or the employee was absent from a position of employment for a period of any length for the purpose of an examination to determine his or her fitness to perform service, the employee must report back to the employer not later than the beginning of the first full regularly-scheduled work period on the first full calendar day following the completion of the period of service, and the expiration of eight hours after a period allowing for safe transportation from the place of that service to the employee's residence. For example, if the employee completes a period of service and travel home, arriving at ten o'clock in the evening, he or she cannot be required to report to the employer until the beginning of the next full regularly-scheduled work period that begins at least eight hours after arriving home,
i.e.
, no earlier than six o'clock the next morning. If it is impossible or unreasonable for the employee to report within such time period through no fault of his or her own, he or she must report to the employer as soon as possible after the expiration of the eight-hour period.
(b)
Period of service more than 30 days but less than 181 days.
If the employee's period of service in the uniformed services was for more than 30 days but less than 181 days, he or she must submit an application for reemployment (written or verbal) with the employer not later than 14 days after completing service. If it is impossible or unreasonable for the employee to apply within 14 days through no fault of his or her own, he or she must submit the application not later than the next full calendar day after it becomes possible to do so.
(c)
Period of service more than 180 days.
If the employee's period of service in the uniformed services was for more than 180 days, he or she must submit an application for reemployment (written or verbal) not later than 90 days after completing service.
§ 1002.116
Is the time period for reporting back to an employer extended if the employee is hospitalized for, or convalescing from, an illness or injury incurred in, or aggravated during, the performance of service?
Yes. If the employee is hospitalized for, or convalescing from, an illness or injury incurred in, or aggravated during, the performance of service, he or she must report to or submit an application for reemployment to the employer at the end of the period necessary for recovering from the illness or injury. This period may not exceed two years from the date of the completion of service, except that it must be extended by the minimum time necessary to accommodate circumstances beyond the employee's control that make reporting within the period impossible or unreasonable. This period for recuperation and recovery extends the time period for reporting to or submitting an application for reemployment to the employer, and is not applicable following reemployment.
§ 1002.117
Are there any consequences if the employee fails to report for or submit a timely application for reemployment?
(a) If the employee fails to timely report for or apply for reemployment, he or she does not automatically forfeit entitlement to USERRA's reemployment and other rights and benefits. Rather, the employee becomes subject to the conduct rules, established policy, and general practices of the employer pertaining to an absence from scheduled work.
(b) If reporting or submitting an employment application to the employer is impossible or unreasonable through no fault of the employee, he or she may report to the employer as soon as possible (in the case of a period of service less than 31 days) or submit an application for reemployment to the employer by the next full calendar day after it becomes possible to do so (in the case of a period of service from 31 to 180 days), and the employee will be considered to have timely reported or applied for reemployment.
§ 1002.118
Is an application for reemployment required to be in any particular form?
An application for reemployment need not follow any particular format. The employee may apply orally or in writing. The application should indicate that the employee is a former employee returning from service in the uniformed services and that he or she seeks reemployment with the pre-service employer. The employee is permitted but not required to identify a particular reemployment position in which he or she is interested.
§ 1002.119
To whom must the employee submit the application for reemployment?
The application must be submitted to the pre-service employer or to an agent or representative of the employer who has apparent responsibility for receiving employment applications. Depending upon the circumstances, such a person could be a personnel or human resources officer, or a first-line supervisor. If there has been a change in ownership of the employer, the application should be submitted to the employer's successor-in-interest.
§ 1002.120
If the employee seeks or obtains employment with an employer other than the pre-service employer before the end of the period within which a reemployment application must be filed, will that jeopardize reemployment rights with the pre-service employer?
No. The employee has reemployment rights with the pre-service employer provided that he or she makes a timely reemployment application to that employer. The employee may seek or obtain employment with an employer other than the pre-service employer during the period of time within which a reemployment application must be made, without giving up reemployment rights with the pre-service employer. However, such alternative employment during the application period should not be of a type that would constitute cause for the employer to discipline or terminate the employee following reemployment. For instance, if the employer forbids employees from working concurrently for a direct competitor during employment, violation of such a policy may constitute cause for discipline or even termination.
§ 1002.121
Is the employee required to submit documentation to the employer in connection with the application for reemployment?
Yes, if the period of service exceeded 30 days and if requested by the employer to do so. If the employee submits an application for reemployment after a period of service of more than 30 days, he or she must, upon the request of the employer, provide documentation to establish that:
(a) The reemployment application is timely;
(b) The employee has not exceeded the five-year limit on the duration of service (subject to the exceptions listed at § 1002.103); and,
(c) The employee's separation or dismissal from service was not disqualifying.
§ 1002.122
Is the employer required to reemploy the employee if documentation establishing the employee's eligibility does not exist or is not readily available?
Yes. The employer is not permitted to delay or deny reemployment by demanding documentation that does not exist or is not readily available. The employee is not liable for administrative delays in the issuance of military documentation. If the employee is reemployed after an absence from employment for more than 90 days, the employer may require that he or she submit the documentation establishing entitlement to reemployment before treating the employee as not having had a break in service for pension purposes. If the documentation is received after reemployment and it shows that the employee is not entitled to reemployment, the employer may terminate employment and any rights or benefits that the employee may have been granted.
§ 1002.123
What documents satisfy the requirement that the employee establish eligibility for reemployment after a period of service of more than thirty days?
(a) Documents that satisfy the requirements of USERRA include the following:
(1) DD (Department of Defense) 214 Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty;
(2) Copy of duty orders prepared by the facility where the orders were fulfilled carrying an endorsement indicating completion of the described service;
(3) Letter from the commanding officer of a Personnel Support Activity or someone of comparable authority;
(4) Certificate of completion from military training school;
(5) Discharge certificate showing character of service; and,
(6) Copy of extracts from payroll documents showing periods of service;
(7) Letter from National Disaster Medical System (NDMS) Team Leader or Administrative Officer verifying dates and times of NDMS training or Federal activation.
(b) The types of documents that are necessary to establish eligibility for reemployment will vary from case to case. Not all of these documents are available or necessary in every instance to establish reemployment eligibility.

# Character of Service
§ 1002.134
What type of discharge or separation from service is required for an employee to be entitled to reemployment under USERRA?
USERRA does not require any particular form of discharge or separation from service. However, even if the employee is otherwise eligible for reemployment, he or she will be disqualified if the characterization of service falls within one of four categories. USERRA requires that the employee not have received one of these types of discharge.
§ 1002.135
What types of discharge or separation from uniformed service will make the employee ineligible for reemployment under USERRA?
Reemployment rights are terminated if the employee is:
(a) Separated from uniformed service with a dishonorable or bad conduct discharge;
(b) Separated from uniformed service under other than honorable conditions, as characterized by regulations of the uniformed service;
(c) A commissioned officer dismissed as permitted under 10 U.S.C. 1161(a) by sentence of a general court-martial; in commutation of a sentence of a general court-martial; or, in time of war, by order of the President; or,
(d) A commissioned officer dropped from the rolls under 10 U.S.C. 1161(b) due to absence without authority for at least three months; separation by reason of a sentence to confinement adjudged by a court-martial; or, a sentence to confinement in a Federal or State penitentiary or correctional institution.
§ 1002.136
Who determines the characterization of service?
The branch of service in which the employee performs the tour of duty determines the characterization of service.
§ 1002.137
If the employee receives a disqualifying discharge or release from uniformed service and it is later upgraded, will reemployment rights be restored?
Yes. A military review board has the authority to prospectively or retroactively upgrade a disqualifying discharge or release. A retroactive upgrade would restore reemployment rights providing the employee otherwise meets the Act's eligibility criteria.
§ 1002.138
If the employee receives a retroactive upgrade in the characterization of service, will that entitle him or her to claim back wages and benefits lost as of the date of separation from service?
No. A retroactive upgrade allows the employee to obtain reinstatement with the former employer, provided the employee otherwise meets the Act's eligibility criteria. Back pay and other benefits such as pension plan credits attributable to the time period between discharge and the retroactive upgrade are not required to be restored by the employer in this situation.

# Employer Statutory Defenses
§ 1002.139
Are there any circumstances in which the pre-service employer is excused from its obligation to reemploy the employee following a period of uniformed service? What statutory defenses are available to the employer in an action or proceeding for reemployment benefits?
(a) Even if the employee is otherwise eligible for reemployment benefits, the employer is not required to reemploy him or her if the employer establishes that its circumstances have so changed as to make reemployment impossible or unreasonable. For example, an employer may be excused from reemploying the employee where there has been an intervening reduction in force that would have included that employee. The employer may not, however, refuse to reemploy the employee on the basis that another employee was hired to fill the reemployment position during the employee's absence, even if reemployment might require the termination of that replacement employee;
(b) Even if the employee is otherwise eligible for reemployment benefits, the employer is not required to reemploy him or her if it establishes that assisting the employee in becoming qualified for reemployment would impose an undue hardship, as defined in § 1002.5(n) and discussed in § 1002.198, on the employer; or,
(c) Even if the employee is otherwise eligible for reemployment benefits, the employer is not required to reemploy him or her if it establishes that the employment position vacated by the employee in order to perform service in the uniformed services was for a brief, nonrecurrent period and there was no reasonable expectation that the employment would continue indefinitely or for a significant period.
(d) The employer defenses included in this section are affirmative ones, and the employer carries the burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that any one or more of these defenses is applicable.

# Subpart D—Rights, Benefits, and Obligations of Persons Absent from Employment Due to Service in the Uniformed Services

# Furlough and Leave of Absence
§ 1002.149
What is the employee's status with his or her civilian employer while performing service in the uniformed services?
During a period of service in the uniformed services, the employee is deemed to be on furlough or leave of absence from the civilian employer. In this status, the employee is entitled to the non-seniority rights and benefits generally provided by the employer to other employees with similar seniority, status, and pay that are on furlough or leave of absence. Entitlement to these non-seniority rights and benefits is not dependent on how the employer characterizes the employee's status during a period of service. For example, if the employer characterizes the employee as “terminated” during the period of uniformed service, this characterization cannot be used to avoid USERRA's requirement that the employee be deemed on furlough or leave of absence, and therefore entitled to the non-seniority rights and benefits generally provided to employees on furlough or leave of absence.
§ 1002.150
Which non-seniority rights and benefits is the employee entitled to during a period of service?
(a) The non-seniority rights and benefits to which an employee is entitled during a period of service are those that the employer provides to similarly situated employees by an employment contract, agreement, policy, practice, or plan in effect at the employee's workplace. These rights and benefits include those in effect at the beginning of the employee's employment and those established after employment began. They also include those rights and benefits that become effective during the employee's period of service and that are provided to similarly situated employees on furlough or leave of absence.
(b) If the non-seniority benefits to which employees on furlough or leave
of absence are entitled vary according to the type of leave, the employee must be given the most favorable treatment accorded to any comparable form of leave when he or she performs service in the uniformed services. In order to determine whether any two types of leave are comparable, the duration of the leave may be the most significant factor to compare. For instance, a two-day funeral leave will not be “comparable” to an extended leave for service in the uniformed service. In addition to comparing the duration of the absences, other factors such as the purpose of the leave and the ability of the employee to choose when to take the leave should also be considered.
(c) As a general matter, accrual of vacation leave is considered to be a non-seniority benefit that must be provided by an employer to an employee on a military leave of absence only if the employer provides that benefit to similarly situated employees on comparable leaves of absence.
§ 1002.151
If the employer provides full or partial pay to the employee while he or she is on military leave, is the employer required to also provide the non-seniority rights and benefits ordinarily granted to similarly situated employees on furlough or leave of absence?
Yes. If the employer provides additional benefits such as full or partial pay when the employee performs service, the employer is not excused from providing other rights and benefits to which the employee is entitled under the Act.
§ 1002.152
If employment is interrupted by a period of service in the uniformed services, are there any circumstances under which the employee is not entitled to the non-seniority rights and benefits ordinarily granted to similarly situated employees on furlough or leave of absence?
If employment is interrupted by a period of service in the uniformed services and the employee knowingly provides written notice of intent not to return to the position of employment after service in the uniformed services, he or she is not entitled to those non-seniority rights and benefits. The employee's written notice does not waive entitlement to any other rights to which he or she is entitled under the Act, including the right to reemployment after service.
§ 1002.153
If employment is interrupted by a period of service in the uniformed services, is the employee permitted upon request to use accrued vacation, annual or similar leave with pay during the service? Can the employer require the employee to use accrued leave during a period of service?
(a) If employment is interrupted by a period of service, the employee must be permitted upon request to use any accrued vacation, annual, or similar leave with pay during the period of service, in order to continue his or her civilian pay. However, the employee is not entitled to use sick leave that accrued with the civilian employer during a period of service in the uniformed services, unless the employer allows employees to use sick leave for any reason, or allows other similarly situated employees on comparable furlough or leave of absence to use accrued paid sick leave. Sick leave is usually not comparable to annual or vacation leave; it is generally intended to provide income when the employee or a family member is ill and the employee is unable to work.
(b) The employer may not require the employee to use accrued vacation, annual, or similar leave during a period of service in the uniformed services.

# Health Plan Coverage
§ 1002.163
What types of health plans are covered by USERRA?
(a) USERRA defines a health plan to include an insurance policy or contract, medical or hospital service agreement, membership or subscription contract, or arrangement under which the employee's health services are provided or the expenses of those services are paid.
(b) USERRA covers group health plans as defined in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) at 29 U.S.C. 1191b(a). USERRA applies to group health plans that are subject to ERISA, and plans that are not subject to ERISA, such as those
sponsored by State or local governments or religious organizations for their employees.
(c) USERRA covers multiemployer plans maintained pursuant to one or more collective bargaining agreements between employers and employee organizations. USERRA applies to multiemployer plans as they are defined in ERISA at 29 U.S.C. 1002(37). USERRA contains provisions that apply specifically to multiemployer plans in certain situations.
§ 1002.164
What health plan coverage must the employer provide for the employee under USERRA?
If the employee has coverage under a health plan in connection with his or her employment, the plan must permit the employee to elect to continue the coverage for a certain period of time as described below:
(a) When the employee is performing service in the uniformed services, he or she is entitled to continuing coverage for himself or herself (and dependents if the plan offers dependent coverage) under a health plan provided in connection with the employment. The plan must allow the employee to elect to continue coverage for a period of time that is the lesser of:
(1) The 24-month period beginning on the date on which the employee's absence for the purpose of performing service begins; or,
(2) The period beginning on the date on which the employee's absence for the purpose of performing service begins, and ending on the date on which he or she fails to return from service or apply for a position of employment as provided under sections 1002.115-123 of these regulations.
(b) USERRA does not require the employer to establish a health plan if there is no health plan coverage in connection with the employment, or, where there is a plan, to provide any particular type of coverage.
(c) USERRA does not require the employer to permit the employee to initiate new health plan coverage at the beginning of a period of service if he or she did not previously have such coverage.
§ 1002.165
How does the employee elect continuing health plan coverage?
USERRA does not specify requirements for electing continuing coverage. Health plan administrators may develop reasonable requirements addressing how continuing coverage may be elected, consistent with the terms of the plan and the Act's exceptions to the requirement that the employee give advance notice of service in the uniformed services. For example, the employee cannot be precluded from electing continuing health plan coverage under circumstances where it is impossible or unreasonable for him or her to make a timely election of coverage.
§ 1002.166
How much must the employee pay in order to continue health plan coverage?
(a) If the employee performs service in the uniformed service for fewer than 31 days, he or she cannot be required to pay more than the regular employee share, if any, for health plan coverage.
(b) If the employee performs service in the uniformed service for 31 or more days, he or she may be required to pay no more than 102% of the full premium under the plan, which represents the employer's share plus the employee's share, plus 2% for administrative costs.
(c) USERRA does not specify requirements for methods of paying for continuing coverage. Health plan administrators may develop reasonable procedures for payment, consistent with the terms of the plan.
§ 1002.167
What actions may a plan administrator take if the employee does not elect or pay for continuing coverage in a timely manner?
The actions a plan administrator may take regarding the provision or cancellation of an employee's continuing coverage depend on whether the employee is excused from the requirement to give advance notice, whether the plan has established reasonable rules for election of continuation coverage, and whether the plan has established reasonable rules for the payment for continuation coverage.
(a)
No notice of service and no election of continuation coverage:
If an employer
provides employment-based health coverage to an employee who leaves employment for uniformed service without giving advance notice of service, the plan administrator may cancel the employee's health plan coverage upon the employee's departure from employment for uniformed service. However, in cases in which an employee's failure to give advance notice of service was excused under the statute because it was impossible, unreasonable, or precluded by military necessity, the plan administrator must reinstate the employee's health coverage retroactively upon his or her election to continue coverage and payment of all unpaid amounts due, and the employee must incur no administrative reinstatement costs. In order to qualify for an exception to the requirement of timely election of continuing health care, an employee must first be excused from giving notice of service under the statute.
(b)
Notice of service but no election of continuing coverage:
Plan administrators may develop reasonable requirements addressing how continuing coverage may be elected. Where health plans are also covered under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, 26 U.S.C. 4980B (COBRA), it may be reasonable for a health plan administrator to adopt COBRA-compliant rules regarding election of continuing coverage, as long as those rules do not conflict with any provision of USERRA or this rule. If an employer provides employment-based health coverage to an employee who leaves employment for uniformed service for a period of service in excess of 30 days after having given advance notice of service but without making an election regarding continuing coverage, the plan administrator may cancel the employee's health plan coverage upon the employee's departure from employment for uniformed service, but must reinstate coverage without the imposition of administrative reinstatement costs under the following conditions:
(1) Plan administrators who have developed reasonable rules regarding the period within which an employee may elect continuing coverage must permit retroactive reinstatement of uninterrupted coverage to the date of departure if the employee elects continuing coverage and pays all unpaid amounts due within the periods established by the plan;
(2) In cases in which plan administrators have not developed rules regarding the period within which an employee may elect continuing coverage, the plan must permit retroactive reinstatement of uninterrupted coverage to the date of departure upon the employee's election and payment of all unpaid amounts at any time during the period established in section 1002.164(a).
(c)
Election of continuation coverage without timely payment:
Health plan administrators may adopt reasonable rules allowing cancellation of coverage if timely payment is not made. Where health plans are covered under COBRA, it may be reasonable for a health plan administrator to adopt COBRA-compliant rules regarding payment for continuing coverage, as long as those rules do not conflict with any provision of USERRA or this rule.
§ 1002.168
If the employee's coverage was terminated at the beginning of or during service, does his or her coverage have to be reinstated upon reemployment?
(a) If health plan coverage for the employee or a dependent was terminated by reason of service in the uniformed services, that coverage must be reinstated upon reemployment. An exclusion or waiting period may not be imposed in connection with the reinstatement of coverage upon reemployment, if an exclusion or waiting period would not have been imposed had coverage not been terminated by reason of such service.
(b) USERRA permits a health plan to impose an exclusion or waiting period as to illnesses or injuries determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to have been incurred in, or aggravated during, performance of service in the uniformed services. The determination that the employee's illness or injury was incurred in, or aggravated during, the performance of service may only be made by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or his or her representative. Other coverage, for injuries or illnesses that
are not service-related (or for the employee's dependents, if he or she has dependent coverage), must be reinstated subject to paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 1002.169
Can the employee elect to delay reinstatement of health plan coverage until a date after the date he or she is reemployed?
USERRA requires the employer to reinstate health plan coverage upon request at reemployment. USERRA permits but does not require the employer to allow the employee to delay reinstatement of health plan coverage until a date that is later than the date of reemployment.
§ 1002.170
In a multiemployer health plan, how is liability allocated for employer contributions and benefits arising under USERRA's health plan provisions?
Liability under a multiemployer plan for employer contributions and benefits in connection with USERRA's health plan provisions must be allocated either as the plan sponsor provides, or, if the sponsor does not provide, to the employee's last employer before his or her service. If the last employer is no longer functional, liability for continuing coverage is allocated to the health plan.
§ 1002.171
How does the continuation of health plan benefits apply to a multiemployer plan that provides health plan coverage through a health benefits account system?
(a) Some employees receive health plan benefits provided pursuant to a multiemployer plan that utilizes a health benefits account system in which an employee accumulates prospective health benefit eligibility, also commonly referred to as “dollar bank,” “credit bank,” and “hour bank” plans. In such cases, where an employee with a positive health benefits account balance elects to continue the coverage, the employee may further elect either option below:
(1) The employee may expend his or her health account balance during an absence from employment due to service in the uniformed services in lieu of paying for the continuation of coverage as set out in § 1002.166. If an employee's health account balance becomes depleted during the applicable period provided for in § 1002.164(a), the employee must be permitted, at his or her option, to continue coverage pursuant to § 1002.166. Upon reemployment, the plan must provide for immediate reinstatement of the employee as required by § 1002.168, but may require the employee to pay the cost of the coverage until the employee earns the credits necessary to sustain continued coverage in the plan.
(2) The employee may pay for continuation coverage as set out in § 1002.166, in order to maintain intact his or her account balance as of the beginning date of the absence from employment due to service in the uniformed services. This option permits the employee to resume usage of the account balance upon reemployment.
(b) Employers or plan administrators providing such plans should counsel employees of their options set out in this subsection.

# Subpart E—Reemployment Rights and Benefits

# Prompt Reemployment
§ 1002.180
When is an employee entitled to be reemployed by his or her civilian employer?
The employer must promptly reemploy the employee when he or she returns from a period of service if the employee meets the Act's eligibility criteria as described in Subpart C of these regulations.
§ 1002.181
How is “prompt reemployment” defined?
“Prompt reemployment” means as soon as practicable under the circumstances of each case. Absent unusual circumstances, reemployment must occur within two weeks of the employee's application for reemployment. For example, prompt reinstatement after a weekend National Guard duty generally means the next regularly scheduled working day. On the other hand, prompt reinstatement following several years of active duty may require more time, because the employer may have to reassign or give notice to another employee who occupied the returning employee's position.

# Reemployment Position
§ 1002.191
What position is the employee entitled to upon reemployment?
As a general rule, the employee is entitled to reemployment in the job position that he or she would have attained with reasonable certainty if not for the absence due to uniformed service. This position is known as the escalator position. The principle behind the escalator position is that, if not for the period of uniformed service, the employee could have been promoted (or, alternatively, demoted, transferred, or laid off) due to intervening events. The escalator principle requires that the employee be reemployed in a position that reflects with reasonable certainty the pay, benefits, seniority, and other job perquisites, that he or she would have attained if not for the period of service. Depending upon the specific circumstances, the employer may have the option, or be required, to reemploy the employee in a position other than the escalator position.
§ 1002.192
How is the specific reemployment position determined?
In all cases, the starting point for determining the proper reemployment position is the escalator position, which is the job position that the employee would have attained if his or her continuous employment had not been interrupted due to uniformed service. Once this position is determined, the employer may have to consider several factors before determining the appropriate reemployment position in any particular case. Such factors may include the employee's length of service, qualifications, and disability, if any. The reemployment position may be either the escalator position; the pre-service position; a position comparable to the escalator or pre-service position; or, the nearest approximation to one of these positions.
§ 1002.193
Does the reemployment position include elements such as seniority, status, and rate of pay?
(a) Yes. The reemployment position includes the seniority, status, and rate of pay that an employee would ordinarily have attained in that position given his or her job history, including prospects for future earnings and advancement. The employer must determine the seniority rights, status, and rate of pay as though the employee had been continuously employed during the period of service. The seniority rights, status, and pay of an employment position include those established (or changed) by a collective bargaining agreement, employer policy, or employment practice. The sources of seniority rights, status, and pay include agreements, policies, and practices in effect at the beginning of the employee's service, and any changes that may have occurred during the period of service. In particular, the employee's status in the reemployment position could include opportunities for advancement, general working conditions, job location, shift assignment, rank, responsibility, and geographical location.
(b) If an opportunity for promotion, or eligibility for promotion, that the employee missed during service is based on a skills test or examination, then the employer should give him or her a reasonable amount of time to adjust to the employment position and then give a skills test or examination. No fixed amount of time for permitting adjustment to reemployment will be deemed reasonable in all cases. However, in determining a reasonable amount of time to permit an employee to adjust to reemployment before scheduling a makeup test or examination, an employer may take into account a variety of factors, including but not limited to the length of time the returning employee was absent from work, the level of difficulty of the test itself, the typical time necessary to prepare or study for the test, the duties and responsibilities of the reemployment position and the promotional position, and the nature and responsibilities of the service member while serving in the uniformed service. If the employee is successful on the makeup exam and, based on the results of that exam, there is a reasonable certainty that he or she would have been promoted, or made eligible for promotion, during the time that the employee served in the uniformed service, then
the promotion or eligibility for promotion must be made effective as of the date it would have occurred had employment not been interrupted by uniformed service.
§ 1002.194
Can the application of the escalator principle result in adverse consequences when the employee is reemployed?
Yes. The Act does not prohibit lawful adverse job consequences that result from the employee's restoration on the seniority ladder. Depending on the circumstances, the escalator principle may cause an employee to be reemployed in a higher or lower position, laid off, or even terminated. For example, if an employee's seniority or job classification would have resulted in the employee being laid off during the period of service, and the layoff continued after the date of reemployment, reemployment would reinstate the employee to layoff status. Similarly, the status of the reemployment position requires the employer to assess what would have happened to such factors as the employee's opportunities for advancement, working conditions, job location, shift assignment, rank, responsibility, and geographical location, if he or she had remained continuously employed. The reemployment position may involve transfer to another shift or location, more or less strenuous working conditions, or changed opportunities for advancement, depending upon the application of the escalator principle.
§ 1002.195
What other factors can determine the reemployment position?
Once the employee's escalator position is determined, other factors may allow, or require, the employer to reemploy the employee in a position other than the escalator position. These factors, which are explained in §§ 1002.196 through 1002.199, are:
(a) The length of the employee's most recent period of uniformed service;
(b) The employee's qualifications; and,
(c) Whether the employee has a disability incurred or aggravated during uniformed service.
§ 1002.196
What is the employee's reemployment position if the period of service was less than 91 days?
Following a period of service in the uniformed services of less than 91 days, the employee must be reemployed according to the following priority:
(a) The employee must be reemployed in the escalator position. He or she must be qualified to perform the duties of this position. The employer must make reasonable efforts to help the employee become qualified to perform the duties of this position.
(b) If the employee is not qualified to perform the duties of the escalator position after reasonable efforts by the employer, the employee must be reemployed in the position in which he or she was employed on the date that the period of service began. The employee must be qualified to perform the duties of this position. The employer must make reasonable efforts to help the employee become qualified to perform the duties of this position.
(c) If the employee is not qualified to perform the duties of the escalator position or the pre-service position, after reasonable efforts by the employer, he or she must be reemployed in any other position that is the nearest approximation first to the escalator position and then to the pre-service position. The employee must be qualified to perform the duties of this position. The employer must make reasonable efforts to help the employee become qualified to perform the duties of this position.
§ 1002.197
What is the reemployment position if the employee's period of service in the uniformed services was more than 90 days?
Following a period of service of more than 90 days, the employee must be reemployed according to the following priority:
(a) The employee must be reemployed in the escalator position or a position of like seniority, status, and pay. He or she must be qualified to perform the duties of this position. The employer must make reasonable efforts to help the employee become qualified to perform the duties of this position.
(b) If the employee is not qualified to perform the duties of the escalator position or a like position after reasonable efforts by the employer, the employee must be reemployed in the position in which he or she was employed on the date that the period of service began or in a position of like seniority, status, and pay. The employee must be qualified to perform the duties of this position. The employer must make reasonable efforts to help the employee become qualified to perform the duties of this position.
(c) If the employee is not qualified to perform the duties of the escalator position, the pre-service position, or a like position, after reasonable efforts by the employer, he or she must be reemployed in any other position that is the nearest approximation first to the escalator position and then to the pre-service position. The employee must be qualified to perform the duties of this position. The employer must make reasonable efforts to help the employee become qualified to perform the duties of this position.
§ 1002.198
What efforts must the employer make to help the employee become qualified for the reemployment position?
The employee must be qualified for the reemployment position. The employer must make reasonable efforts to help the employee become qualified to perform the duties of this position. The employer is not required to reemploy the employee on his or her return from service if he or she cannot, after reasonable efforts by the employer, qualify for the appropriate reemployment position.
(a)(1) “Qualified” means that the employee has the ability to perform the essential tasks of the position. The employee's inability to perform one or more non-essential tasks of a position does not make him or her unqualified.
(2) Whether a task is essential depends on several factors, and these factors include but are not limited to:
(i) The employer's judgment as to which functions are essential;
(ii) Written job descriptions developed before the hiring process begins;
(iii) The amount of time on the job spent performing the function;
(iv) The consequences of not requiring the individual to perform the function;
(v) The terms of a collective bargaining agreement;
(vi) The work experience of past incumbents in the job; and/or
(vii) The current work experience of incumbents in similar jobs.
(b) Only after the employer makes reasonable efforts, as defined in § 1002.5(i), may it determine that the employee is not qualified for the reemployment position. These reasonable efforts must be made at no cost to the employee.
§ 1002.199
What priority must the employer follow if two or more returning employees are entitled to reemployment in the same position?
If two or more employees are entitled to reemployment in the same position and more than one employee has reported or applied for employment in that position, the employee who first left the position for uniformed service has the first priority on reemployment in that position. The remaining employee (or employees) is entitled to be reemployed in a position similar to that in which the employee would have been reemployed according to the rules that normally determine a reemployment position, as set out in §§ 1002.196 and 1002.197.

# Seniority Rights and Benefits
§ 1002.210
What seniority rights does an employee have when reemployed following a period of uniformed service?
The employee is entitled to the seniority and seniority-based rights and benefits that he or she had on the date the uniformed service began, plus any seniority and seniority-based rights and benefits that the employee would have attained if he or she had remained continuously employed. In determining entitlement to seniority and seniority-based rights and benefits, the period of absence from employment due to or necessitated by uniformed service is not considered a break in employment. The rights and benefits protected by USERRA upon reemployment include those provided by the employer and those required by statute. For example,
under USERRA, a reemployed service member would be eligible for leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, 29 U.S.C. 2601-2654 (FMLA), if the number of months and the number of hours of work for which the service member was employed by the civilian employer, together with the number of months and the number of hours of work for which the service member would have been employed by the civilian employer during the period of uniformed service, meet FMLA's eligibility requirements. In the event that a service member is denied FMLA leave for failing to satisfy the FMLA's hours of work requirement due to absence from employment necessitated by uniformed service, the service member may have a cause of action under USERRA but not under the FMLA.
§ 1002.211
Does USERRA require the employer to use a seniority system?
No. USERRA does not require the employer to adopt a formal seniority system. USERRA defines seniority as longevity in employment together with any employment benefits that accrue with, or are determined by, longevity in employment. In the absence of a formal seniority system, such as one established through collective bargaining, USERRA looks to the custom and practice in the place of employment to determine the employee's entitlement to any employment benefits that accrue with, or are determined by, longevity in employment.
§ 1002.212
How does a person know whether a particular right or benefit is a seniority-based right or benefit?
A seniority-based right or benefit is one that accrues with, or is determined by, longevity in employment. Generally, whether a right or benefit is seniority-based depends on three factors:
(a) Whether the right or benefit is a reward for length of service rather than a form of short-term compensation for work performed;
(b) Whether it is reasonably certain that the employee would have received the right or benefit if he or she had remained continuously employed during the period of service; and,
(c) Whether it is the employer's actual custom or practice to provide or withhold the right or benefit as a reward for length of service. Provisions of an employment contract or policies in the employee handbook are not controlling if the employer's actual custom or practice is different from what is written in the contract or handbook.
§ 1002.213
How can the employee demonstrate a reasonable certainty that he or she would have received the seniority right or benefit if he or she had remained continuously employed during the period of service?
A reasonable certainty is a high probability that the employee would have received the seniority or seniority-based right or benefit if he or she had been continuously employed. The employee does not have to establish that he or she would have received the benefit as an absolute certainty. The employee can demonstrate a reasonable certainty that he or she would have received the seniority right or benefit by showing that other employees with seniority similar to that which the employee would have had if he or she had remained continuously employed received the right or benefit. The employer cannot withhold the right or benefit based on an assumption that a series of unlikely events could have prevented the employee from gaining the right or benefit.

# Disabled Employees
§ 1002.225
Is the employee entitled to any specific reemployment benefits if he or she has a disability that was incurred in, or aggravated during, the period of service?
Yes. A disabled service member is entitled, to the same extent as any other individual, to the escalator position he or she would have attained but for uniformed service. If the employee has a disability incurred in, or aggravated during, the period of service in the uniformed services, the employer must make reasonable efforts to accommodate that disability and to help the employee become qualified to perform the duties of his or her reemployment position. If the employee is not qualified
for reemployment in the escalator position because of a disability after reasonable efforts by the employer to accommodate the disability and to help the employee to become qualified, the employee must be reemployed in a position according to the following priority. The employer must make reasonable efforts to accommodate the employee's disability and to help him or her to become qualified to perform the duties of one of these positions:
(a) A position that is equivalent in seniority, status, and pay to the escalator position; or,
(b) A position that is the nearest approximation to the equivalent position, consistent with the circumstances of the employee's case, in terms of seniority, status, and pay. A position that is the nearest approximation to the equivalent position may be a higher or lower position, depending on the circumstances.
§ 1002.226
If the employee has a disability that was incurred in, or aggravated during, the period of service, what efforts must the employer make to help him or her become qualified for the reemployment position?
(a) USERRA requires that the employee be qualified for the reemployment position regardless of any disability. The employer must make reasonable efforts to help the employee to become qualified to perform the duties of this position. The employer is not required to reemploy the employee on his or her return from service if he or she cannot, after reasonable efforts by the employer, qualify for the appropriate reemployment position.
(b) “Qualified” has the same meaning here as in § 1002.198.

# Rate of Pay
§ 1002.236
How is the employee's rate of pay determined when he or she returns from a period of service?
The employee's rate of pay is determined by applying the same escalator principles that are used to determine the reemployment position, as follows:
(a) If the employee is reemployed in the escalator position, the employer must compensate him or her at the rate of pay associated with the escalator position. The rate of pay must be determined by taking into account any pay increases, differentials, step increases, merit increases, or periodic increases that the employee would have attained with reasonable certainty had he or she remained continuously employed during the period of service. In addition, when considering whether merit or performance increases would have been attained with reasonable certainty, an employer may examine the returning employee's own work history, his or her history of merit increases, and the work and pay history of employees in the same or similar position. For example, if the employee missed a merit pay increase while performing service, but qualified for previous merit pay increases, then the rate of pay should include the merit pay increase that was missed. If the merit pay increase that the employee missed during service is based on a skills test or examination, then the employer should give the employee a reasonable amount of time to adjust to the reemployment position and then give him or her the skills test or examination. No fixed amount of time for permitting adjustment to reemployment will be deemed reasonable in all cases. However, in determining a reasonable amount of time to permit an employee to adjust to reemployment before scheduling a makeup test or examination, an employer may take into account a variety of factors, including but not limited to the length of time the returning employee was absent from work, the level of difficulty of the test itself, the typical time necessary to prepare or study for the test, the duties and responsibilities of the reemployment position and the promotional position, and the nature and responsibilities of the service member while serving in the uniformed service. The escalator principle also applies in the event a pay reduction occurred in the reemployment position during the period of service. Any pay adjustment must be made effective as of the date it would have occurred had the employee's employment not been interrupted by uniformed service.
(b) If the employee is reemployed in the pre-service position or another position, the employer must compensate
him or her at the rate of pay associated with the position in which he or she is reemployed. As with the escalator position, the rate of pay must be determined by taking into account any pay increases, differentials, step increases, merit increases, or periodic increases that the employee would have attained with reasonable certainty had he or she remained continuously employed during the period of service.

# Protection Against Discharge
§ 1002.247
Does USERRA provide the employee with protection against discharge?
Yes. If the employee's most recent period of service in the uniformed services was more than 30 days, he or she must not be discharged except for cause—
(a) For 180 days after the employee's date of reemployment if his or her most recent period of uniformed service was more than 30 days but less than 181 days; or,
(b) For one year after the date of reemployment if the employee's most recent period of uniformed service was more than 180 days.
§ 1002.248
What constitutes cause for discharge under USERRA?
The employee may be discharged for cause based either on conduct or, in some circumstances, because of the application of other legitimate nondiscriminatory reasons.
(a) In a discharge action based on conduct, the employer bears the burden of proving that it is reasonable to discharge the employee for the conduct in question, and that he or she had notice, which was express or can be fairly implied, that the conduct would constitute cause for discharge.
(b) If, based on the application of other legitimate nondiscriminatory reasons, the employee's job position is eliminated, or the employee is placed on layoff status, either of these situations would constitute cause for purposes of USERRA. The employer bears the burden of proving that the employee's job would have been eliminated or that he or she would have been laid off.

# Pension Plan Benefits
§ 1002.259
How does USERRA protect an employee's pension benefits?
On reemployment, the employee is treated as not having a break in service with the employer or employers maintaining a pension plan, for purposes of participation, vesting and accrual of benefits, by reason of the period of absence from employment due to or necessitated by service in the uniformed services.
(a) Depending on the length of the employee's period of service, he or she is entitled to take from one to ninety days following service before reporting back to work or applying for reemployment (See § 1002.115). This period of time must be treated as continuous service with the employer for purposes of determining participation, vesting and accrual of pension benefits under the plan.
(b) If the employee is hospitalized for, or convalescing from, an illness or injury incurred in, or aggravated during, service, he or she is entitled to report to or submit an application for reemployment at the end of the time period necessary for him or her to recover from the illness or injury. This period, which may not exceed two years from the date the employee completed service, except in circumstances beyond his or her control, must be treated as continuous service with the employer for purposes of determining the participation, vesting and accrual of pension benefits under the plan.
§ 1002.260
What pension benefit plans are covered under USERRA?
(a) The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) defines an employee pension benefit plan as a plan that provides retirement income to employees, or defers employee income to a period extending to or beyond the termination of employment. Any such plan maintained by the employer or employers is covered under USERRA. USERRA also covers certain pension plans not covered by ERISA, such as those sponsored by a State, government entity, or church for its employees.
(b) USERRA does not cover pension benefits under the Federal Thrift Savings Plan; those benefits are covered under 5 U.S.C. 8432b.
§ 1002.261
Who is responsible for funding any plan obligation to provide the employee with pension benefits?
With the exception of multiemployer plans, which have separate rules discussed below, the employer is liable to the pension benefit plan to fund any obligation of the plan to provide benefits that are attributable to the employee's period of service. In the case of a defined contribution plan, once the employee is reemployed, the employer must allocate the amount of its make-up contribution for the employee, if any; his or her make-up employee contributions, if any; and his or her elective deferrals, if any; in the same manner and to the same extent that it allocates the amounts for other employees during the period of service. In the case of a defined benefit plan, the employee's accrued benefit will be increased for the period of service once he or she is reemployed and, if applicable, has repaid any amounts previously paid to him or her from the plan and made any employee contributions that may be required to be made under the plan.
§ 1002.262
When is the employer required to make the plan contribution that is attributable to the employee's period of uniformed service?
(a) The employer is not required to make its contribution until the employee is reemployed. For employer contributions to a plan in which the employee is not required or permitted to contribute, the employer must make the contribution attributable to the employee's period of service no later than ninety days after the date of reemployment, or when plan contributions are normally due for the year in which the service in the uniformed services was performed, whichever is later. If it is impossible or unreasonable for the employer to make the contribution within this time period, the employer must make the contribution as soon as practicable.
(b) If the employee is enrolled in a contributory plan he or she is allowed (but not required) to make up his or her missed contributions or elective deferrals. These makeup contributions or elective deferrals must be made during a time period starting with the date of reemployment and continuing for up to three times the length of the employee's immediate past period of uniformed service, with the repayment period not to exceed five years. Makeup contributions or elective deferrals may only be made during this period and while the employee is employed with the post-service employer.
(c) If the employee's plan is contributory and he or she does not make up his or her contributions or elective deferrals, he or she will not receive the employer match or the accrued benefit attributable to his or her contribution because the employer is required to make contributions that are contingent on or attributable to the employee's contributions or elective deferrals only to the extent that the employee makes up his or her payments to the plan. Any employer contributions that are contingent on or attributable to the employee's make-up contributions or elective deferrals must be made according to the plan's requirements for employer matching contributions.
(d) The employee is not required to make up the full amount of employee contributions or elective deferrals that he or she missed making during the period of service. If the employee does not make up all of the missed contributions or elective deferrals, his or her pension may be less than if he or she had done so.
(e) Any vested accrued benefit in the pension plan that the employee was entitled to prior to the period of uniformed service remains intact whether or not he or she chooses to be reemployed under the Act after leaving the uniformed service.
(f) An adjustment will be made to the amount of employee contributions or elective deferrals the employee will be able to make to the pension plan for any employee contributions or elective deferrals he or she actually made to the plan during the period of service.
§ 1002.263
Does the employee pay interest when he or she makes up missed contributions or elective deferrals?
No. The employee is not required or permitted to make up a missed contribution in an amount that exceeds the amount he or she would have been permitted or required to contribute had he or she remained continuously employed during the period of service.
§ 1002.264
Is the employee allowed to repay a previous distribution from a pension benefits plan upon being reemployed?
Yes, provided the plan is a defined benefit plan. If the employee received a distribution of all or part of the accrued benefit from a defined benefit plan in connection with his or her service in the uniformed services before he or she became reemployed, he or she must be allowed to repay the withdrawn amounts when he or she is reemployed. The amount the employee must repay includes any interest that would have accrued had the monies not been withdrawn. The employee must be allowed to repay these amounts during a time period starting with the date of reemployment and continuing for up to three times the length of the employee's immediate past period of uniformed service, with the repayment period not to exceed five years (or such longer time as may be agreed to between the employer and the employee), provided the employee is employed with the post-service employer during this period.
§ 1002.265
If the employee is reemployed with his or her pre-service employer, is the employee's pension benefit the same as if he or she had remained continuously employed?
The amount of the employee's pension benefit depends on the type of pension plan.
(a) In a non-contributory defined benefit plan, where the amount of the pension benefit is determined according to a specific formula, the employee's benefit will be the same as though he or she had remained continuously employed during the period of service.
(b) In a contributory defined benefit plan, the employee will need to make up contributions in order to have the same benefit as if he or she had remained continuously employed during the period of service.
(c) In a defined contribution plan, the benefit may not be the same as if the employee had remained continuously employed, even though the employee and the employer make up any contributions or elective deferrals attributable to the period of service, because the employee is not entitled to forfeitures and earnings or required to experience losses that accrued during the period or periods of service.
§ 1002.266
What are the obligations of a multiemployer pension benefit plan under USERRA?
A multiemployer pension benefit plan is one to which more than one employer is required to contribute, and which is maintained pursuant to one or more collective bargaining agreements between one or more employee organizations and more than one employer. The Act uses ERISA's definition of a multiemployer plan. In addition to the provisions of USERRA that apply to all pension benefit plans, there are provisions that apply specifically to multiemployer plans, as follows:
(a) The last employer that employed the employee before the period of service is responsible for making the employer contribution to the multiemployer plan, if the plan sponsor does not provide otherwise. If the last employer is no longer functional, the plan must nevertheless provide coverage to the employee.
(b) An employer that contributes to a multiemployer plan and that reemploys the employee pursuant to USERRA must provide written notice of reemployment to the plan administrator within 30 days after the date of reemployment. The returning service member should notify the reemploying employer that he or she has been reemployed pursuant to USERRA. The 30-day period within which the reemploying employer must provide written notice to the multiemployer plan pursuant to this subsection does not begin until the employer has knowledge that the employee was reemployed pursuant to USERRA.
(c) The employee is entitled to the same employer contribution whether
he or she is reemployed by the pre-service employer or by a different employer contributing to the same multiemployer plan, provided that the pre-service employer and the post-service employer share a common means or practice of hiring the employee, such as common participation in a union hiring hall.
§ 1002.267
How is compensation during the period of service calculated in order to determine the employee's pension benefits, if benefits are based on compensation?
In many pension benefit plans, the employee's compensation determines the amount of his or her contribution or the retirement benefit to which he or she is entitled.
(a) Where the employee's rate of compensation must be calculated to determine pension entitlement, the calculation must be made using the rate of pay that the employee would have received but for the period of uniformed service.
(b)(1) Where the rate of pay the employee would have received is not reasonably certain, such as where compensation is based on commissions earned, the average rate of compensation during the 12-month period prior to the period of uniformed service must be used.
(2) Where the rate of pay the employee would have received is not reasonably certain and he or she was employed for less than 12 months prior to the period of uniformed service, the average rate of compensation must be derived from this shorter period of employment that preceded service.

# Subpart F—Compliance Assistance, Enforcement and Remedies

# Compliance Assistance
§ 1002.277
What assistance does the Department of Labor provide to employees and employers concerning employment, reemployment, or other rights and benefits under USERRA?
The Secretary, through the Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS), provides assistance to any person or entity with respect to employment and reemployment rights and benefits under USERRA. This assistance includes a wide range of compliance assistance outreach activities, such as responding to inquiries; conducting USERRA briefings and Webcasts; issuing news releases; and, maintaining the elaws USERRA Advisor (located at
http://www.dol.gov/elaws/userra.htm
), the e-VETS Resource Advisor and other web-based materials (located at
http://www.dol.gov/vets
), which are designed to increase awareness of the Act among affected persons, the media, and the general public. In providing such assistance, VETS may request the assistance of other Federal and State agencies, and utilize the assistance of volunteers.

# Investigation and Referral
§ 1002.288
How does an individual file a USERRA complaint?
If an individual is claiming entitlement to employment rights or benefits or reemployment rights or benefits and alleges that an employer has failed or refused, or is about to fail or refuse, to comply with the Act, the individual may file a complaint with VETS or initiate a private legal action in a court of law (
see
§ 1002.303). A complaint may be filed with VETS either in writing, using VETS Form 1010, or electronically, using VETS Form e1010 (instructions and the forms can be accessed at
http://www.dol.gov/elaws/vets/userra/1010.asp
). A complaint must include the name and address of the employer, a summary of the basis for the complaint, and a request for relief.
§ 1002.289
How will VETS investigate a USERRA complaint?
(a) In carrying out any investigation, VETS has, at all reasonable times, reasonable access to and the right to interview persons with information relevant to the investigation. VETS also has reasonable access to, for purposes of examination, the right to copy and receive any documents of any person or employer that VETS considers relevant to the investigation.
(b) VETS may require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documents relating to any matter under investigation. In case of disobedience of or resistance to the subpoena, the Attorney General may, at VETS' request, apply to any district court of the United States in whose jurisdiction such disobedience or resistance occurs for an order enforcing the subpoena. The district courts of the United States have jurisdiction to order compliance with the subpoena, and to punish failure to obey a subpoena as a contempt of court. This paragraph does not authorize VETS to seek issuance of a subpoena to the legislative or judicial branches of the United States.
§ 1002.290
Does VETS have the authority to order compliance with USERRA?
No. If VETS determines as a result of an investigation that the complaint is meritorious, VETS attempts to resolve the complaint by making reasonable efforts to ensure that any persons or entities named in the complaint comply with the Act.
If VETS' efforts do not resolve the complaint, VETS notifies the person who submitted the complaint of:
(a) The results of the investigation; and,
(b) The person's right to proceed under the enforcement of rights provisions in 38 U.S.C. 4323 (against a State or private employer), or 38 U.S.C. 4324 (against a Federal executive agency or the Office of Personnel Management (OPM)).
§ 1002.291
What actions may an individual take if the complaint is not resolved by VETS?
If an individual receives a notification from VETS of an unsuccessful effort to resolve his or her complaint relating to a State or private employer, the individual may request that VETS refer the complaint to the Attorney General.
§ 1002.292
What can the Attorney General do about the complaint?
(a) If the Attorney General is reasonably satisfied that an individual's complaint is meritorious, meaning that he or she is entitled to the rights or benefits sought, the Attorney General may appear on his or her behalf and act as the individual's attorney, and initiate a legal action to obtain appropriate relief.
(b) If the Attorney General determines that the individual's complaint does not have merit, the Attorney General may decline to represent him or her.

# Enforcement of Rights and Benefits Against a State or Private Employer
§ 1002.303
Is an individual required to file his or her complaint with VETS?
No. The individual may initiate a private action for relief against a State or private employer if he or she decides not to apply to VETS for assistance.
§ 1002.304
If an individual files a complaint with VETS and VETS' efforts do not resolve the complaint, can the individual pursue the claim on his or her own?
Yes. If VETS notifies an individual that it is unable to resolve the complaint, the individual may pursue the claim on his or her own. The individual may choose to be represented by private counsel whether or not the Attorney General decides to represent him or her as to the complaint.
§ 1002.305
What court has jurisdiction in an action against a State or private employer?
(a) If an action is brought against a State or private employer by the Attorney General, the district courts of the United States have jurisdiction over the action. If the action is brought against a State by the Attorney General, it must be brought in the name of the United States as the plaintiff in the action.
(b) If an action is brought against a State by a person, the action may be brought in a State court of competent jurisdiction according to the laws of the State.
(c) If an action is brought against a private employer or a political subdivision of a State by a person, the district courts of the United States have jurisdiction over the action.
(d) An action brought against a State Adjutant General, as an employer of a civilian National Guard technician, is considered an action against a State for purposes of determining which court has jurisdiction.
§ 1002.306
Is a National Guard civilian technician considered a State or Federal employee for purposes of USERRA?
A National Guard civilian technician is considered a State employee for USERRA purposes, although he or she is considered a Federal employee for most other purposes.
§ 1002.307
What is the proper venue in an action against a State or private employer?
(a) If an action is brought by the Attorney General against a State, the action may proceed in the United States district court for any district in which the State exercises any authority or carries out any function.
(b) If an action is brought against a private employer, or a political subdivision of a State, the action may proceed in the United States district court for any district in which the employer maintains a place of business.
§ 1002.308
Who has legal standing to bring an action under USERRA?
An action may be brought only by the United States or by the person, or representative of a person, claiming rights or benefits under the Act. An employer, prospective employer or other similar entity may not bring an action under the Act.
§ 1002.309
Who is a necessary party in an action under USERRA?
In an action under USERRA only an employer or a potential employer, as the case may be, is a necessary party respondent. In some circumstances, such as where terms in a collective bargaining agreement need to be interpreted, the court may allow an interested party to intervene in the action.
§ 1002.310
How are fees and court costs charged or taxed in an action under USERRA?
No fees or court costs may be charged or taxed against an individual if he or she is claiming rights under the Act. If the individual obtains private counsel for any action or proceeding to enforce a provision of the Act, and prevails, the court may award reasonable attorney fees, expert witness fees, and other litigation expenses.
§ 1002.311
Is there a statute of limitations in an action under USERRA?
USERRA does not have a statute of limitations, and it expressly precludes the application of any State statute of limitations. At least one court, however, has held that the four-year general Federal statute of limitations, 28 U.S.C. 1658, applies to actions under USERRA.
Rogers
v.
City of San Antonio,
2003 WL 1566502 (W.D. Texas),
reversed on other grounds,
392 F.3d 758 (5th Cir. 2004). But see
Akhdary
v.
City of Chattanooga,
2002 WL 32060140 (E.D. Tenn.). In addition, if an individual unreasonably delays asserting his or her rights, and that unreasonable delay causes prejudice to the employer, the courts have recognized the availability of the equitable doctrine of
laches
to bar a claim under USERRA. Accordingly, individuals asserting rights under USERRA should determine whether the issue of the applicability of the Federal statute of limitations has been resolved and, in any event, act promptly to preserve their rights under USERRA.
§ 1002.312
What remedies may be awarded for a violation of USERRA?
In any action or proceeding the court may award relief as follows:
(a) The court may require the employer to comply with the provisions of the Act;
(b) The court may require the employer to compensate the individual for any loss of wages or benefits suffered by reason of the employer's failure to comply with the Act;
(c) The court may require the employer to pay the individual an amount equal to the amount of lost wages and benefits as liquidated damages, if the court determines that the employer's failure to comply with the Act was willful. A violation shall be considered to be willful if the employer either knew or showed reckless disregard for
whether its conduct was prohibited by the Act.
(d) Any wages, benefits, or liquidated damages awarded under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are in addition to, and must not diminish, any of the other rights and benefits provided by USERRA (such as, for example, the right to be employed or reemployed by the employer).
§ 1002.313
Are there special damages provisions that apply to actions initiated in the name of the United States?
Yes. In an action brought in the name of the United States, for which the relief includes compensation for lost wages, benefits, or liquidated damages, the compensation must be held in a special deposit account and must be paid, on order of the Attorney General, directly to the person. If the compensation is not paid to the individual because of the Federal Government's inability to do so within a period of three years, the compensation must be converted into the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts.
§ 1002.314
May a court use its equity powers in an action or proceeding under the Act?
Yes. A court may use its full equity powers, including the issuance of temporary or permanent injunctions, temporary restraining orders, and contempt orders, to vindicate the rights or benefits guaranteed under the Act.
Pt. 1002, App.

# Appendix to Part 1002—Notice of Your Rights Under USERRA
Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 4334(a), each employer shall provide to persons entitled to rights and benefits under USERRA a notice of the rights, benefits, and obligations of such persons and such employers under USERRA. The requirement for the provision of notice under this section may be met by posting the following notice where employers customarily place notices for employees. Posting one of the original notices published in 70 FR 75316 (Dec. 19, 2005) will also satisfy this requirement. The following text is provided by the Secretary of Labor to employers pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 4334(b).

# Text for Use by All Employers

# Your Rights Under USERRA

# A. The Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act
USERRA protects the job rights of individuals who voluntarily or involuntarily leave employment positions to undertake military service or certain types of service in the National Disaster Medical System. USERRA also prohibits employers from discriminating against past and present members of the uniformed services, and applicants to the uniformed services.

# B. Reemployment Rights
You have the right to be reemployed in your civilian job if you leave that job to perform service in the uniformed service and:
• You ensure that your employer receives advance written or verbal notice of your service;
• You have five years or less of cumulative service in the uniformed services while with that particular employer;
• You return to work or apply for reemployment in a timely manner after conclusion of service; and
• You have not been separated from service with a disqualifying discharge or under other than honorable conditions.
If you are eligible to be reemployed, you must be restored to the job and benefits you would have attained if you had not been absent due to military service or, in some cases, a comparable job.

# C. Right To Be Free From Discrimination and Retaliation
If you:
• Are a past or present member of the uniformed service;
• Have applied for membership in the uniformed service; or
• Are obligated to serve in the uniformed service; then an employer may not deny you
• Initial employment;
• Reemployment;
• Retention in employment;
• Promotion; or
• Any benefit of employment
because of this status.
In addition, an employer may not retaliate against anyone assisting in the enforcement of USERRA rights, including testifying or making a statement in connection with a proceeding under USERRA, even if that person has no service connection.

# D. Health Insurance Protection
• If you leave your job to perform military service, you have the right to elect to continue your existing employer-based health plan coverage for you and your dependents for up to 24 months while in the military.
• Even if you do not elect to continue coverage during your military service, you have the right to be reinstated in your employer's health plan when you are reemployed, generally without any waiting periods or exclusions (e.g., pre-existing condition exclusions) except for service-connected illnesses or injuries.

# E. Enforcement
• The U.S. Department of Labor, Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) is authorized to investigate and resolve complaints of USERRA violations.
For assistance in filing a complaint, or for any other information on USERRA, contact VETS at 1-866-4-USA-DOL or visit its Web site at
http://www.dol.gov/vets.
An interactive online USERRA Advisor can be viewed at
http://www.dol.gov/elaws/userra.htm.
• If you file a complaint with VETS and VETS is unable to resolve it, you may request that your case be referred to the Department of Justice or the Office of Special Counsel, as applicable, for representation.
• You may also bypass the VETS process and bring a civil action against an employer for violations of USERRA.
The rights listed here may vary depending on the circumstances. The text of this notice was prepared by VETS, and may be viewed on the Internet at this address:
http://www.dol.gov/vets/programs/userra/poster.htm.
Federal law requires employers to notify employees of their rights under USERRA, and employers may meet this requirement by displaying the text of this notice where they customarily place notices for employees. U.S. Department of Labor, Veterans' Employment and Training Service, 1-866-487-2365.
[73 FR 63632, Oct. 27, 2008]
Pt. 1010

# PART 1010—APPLICATION OF PRIORITY OF SERVICE FOR COVERED PERSONS

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
Sec.
1010.100
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
1010.110
What definitions apply to this part?

# Subpart B—Understanding Priority of Service
1010.200
What is priority of service?
1010.210
In which Department job training programs do covered persons receive priority of service?
1010.220
How are recipients required to implement priority of service?
1010.230
In addition to the responsibilities of all recipients, do States and political subdivisions of States have any particular responsibilities in implementing priority of service?
1010.240
Will the Department be monitoring for compliance with priority of service?
1010.250
Can priority of service be waived?

# Subpart C—Applying Priority of Service
1010.300
What processes are to be implemented to identify covered persons?
1010.310
How will priority of service be applied?
1010.320
Will recipients be required to collect information and report on priority of service?
1010.330
What are the responsibilities of recipients to collect and maintain data on covered and non-covered persons?

# Authority:
Pub. L. 109-461 (Dec. 22, 2006), section 605 [38 U.S.C. 4215 Note]; 38 U.S.C. 4215.

# Source:
73 FR 78142, Dec. 19, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
§ 1010.100
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
(a) Part 1010 contains the Department regulations implementing priority of service for covered persons. Priority of service for covered persons is authorized by section 2(a)(1) of JVA (38 U.S.C. 4215). These regulations fulfill section 605 of the Veterans Benefits, Health Care, and Information Technology Act of 2006, Pub. L. 109-461 (Dec. 22, 2006), which requires the Department to implement priority of service via regulation.
(b) As provided in § 1010.210, this part applies to all qualified job training programs.
§ 1010.110
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Covered person
as defined in section 2(a) of the JVA (38 U.S.C. 4215(a)) means a veteran or eligible spouse.
Department or DOL
means the United States Department of Labor, including its agencies and organizational units and their representatives.
Eligible spouse
as defined in section 2(a) of the JVA (38 U.S.C. 4215(a)) means the spouse of any of the following:
(1) Any veteran who died of a service-connected disability;
(2) Any member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who, at the time of application for the priority, is listed in one or more of the following categories and has been so listed for a total of more than 90 days:
(i) Missing in action;
(ii) Captured in line of duty by a hostile force; or
(iii) Forcibly detained or interned in line of duty by a foreign government or power;
(3) Any veteran who has a total disability resulting from a service-connected disability, as evaluated by the Department of Veterans Affairs;
(4) Any veteran who died while a disability, as indicated in paragraph (3) of this section, was in existence.
Grant
means an award of Federal financial assistance by the Department of Labor to an eligible recipient.
Jobs for Veterans Act (JVA)
means Public Law 107-288 (2002). Section 2(a) of the JVA, codified at 38 U.S.C. 4215(a), provides priority of service for covered persons.
Non-covered person
means any individual who meets neither the definition of “veteran,” as defined in this section, nor the definition of “eligible spouse” as defined in this section.
Qualified job training program
means any program or service for workforce preparation, development, or delivery that is directly funded, in whole or in part, by the Department of Labor.
Recipient
means an entity to which federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, is awarded directly from the Department or through a sub-award for any qualified job training program.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Department of Labor.
Veteran
means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable, as specified in 38 U.S.C. 101(2). Active service includes full-time duty in the National Guard or a Reserve component, other than full-time duty for training purposes.

# Subpart B—Understanding Priority of Service
§ 1010.200
What is priority of service?
(a) As defined in section 2(a) of the JVA (38 U.S.C. 4215(a)) “priority of service” means, with respect to any qualified job training program, that a covered person shall be given priority over a non-covered person for the receipt of employment, training, and placement services provided under that program, notwithstanding any other provision of the law.
(b) Priority in the context of providing priority of service to veterans and other covered persons in qualified job training programs covered by this regulation means the right to take precedence over non-covered persons in obtaining services. Depending on the type of service or resource being provided, taking precedence may mean:
(1) The covered person receives access to the service or resource earlier in time than the non-covered person; or
(2) If the service or resource is limited, the covered person receives access to the service or resource instead of or before the non-covered person.
§ 1010.210
In which Department job training programs do covered persons receive priority of service?
(a) Priority of service applies to every qualified job training program funded, in whole or in part, by the Department, including:
(1) Any such program or service that uses technology to assist individuals to access workforce development programs (such as job and training opportunities, labor market information, career assessment tools, and related support services); and
(2) Any such program or service under the public employment service system, One-Stop Career Centers, the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, a demonstration or other temporary program; any workforce development program targeted to specific groups; and those programs implemented by States or local service providers based on Federal block grants administered by the Department.
(b) The implementation of priority of service does not change the intended
function of a program or service. Covered persons must meet all statutory eligibility and program requirements for participation in order to receive priority for a program or service.
§ 1010.220
How are recipients required to implement priority of service?
(a) An agreement to implement priority of service, as described in these regulations and in any departmental guidance, is a condition for receipt of all Department job training program funds.
(b) All recipients are required to ensure that priority of service is applied by all sub-recipients of Department funds. All program activities, including those obtained through requests for proposals, solicitations for grant awards, sub-grants, contracts, sub-contracts, and (where feasible) memoranda of understanding or other service provision agreements, issued or executed by qualified job training program operators, must be administered in compliance with priority of service.
§ 1010.230
In addition to the responsibilities of all recipients, do States and political subdivisions of States have any particular responsibilities in implementing priority of service?
(a) Pursuant to their responsibility under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, States are required to address priority of service in their comprehensive strategic plan for the State's workforce investment system. Specifically, States must develop policies for the delivery of priority of service by the State Workforce Agency or Agencies, Local Workforce Investment Boards, and One-Stop Career Centers for all qualified job training programs delivered through the State's workforce system. The policy or policies must require that processes are in place to ensure that covered persons are identified at the point of entry and given an opportunity to take full advantage of priority of service. These processes shall be undertaken to ensure that covered persons are aware of:
(1) Their entitlement to priority of service;
(2) The full array of employment, training, and placement services available under priority of service; and
(3) Any applicable eligibility requirements for those programs and/or services.
(b) The State's policy or policies must require Local Workforce Investment Boards to develop and include in their strategic local plan, policies implementing priority of service for the local One-Stop Career Centers and for service delivery by local workforce preparation and training providers. These policies must establish processes to ensure that covered persons are identified at the point of entry so that covered persons are able to take full advantage of priority of service. These processes shall ensure that covered persons are aware of:
(1) Their entitlement to priority of service;
(2) The full array of employment, training, and placement services available under priority of service; and
(3) Any applicable eligibility requirements for those programs and/or services.
§ 1010.240
Will the Department be monitoring for compliance with priority of service?
(a) The Department will monitor recipients of funds for qualified job training programs to ensure that covered persons are made aware of and afforded priority of service.
(b) Monitoring priority of service will be performed jointly between the Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) and the DOL agency responsible for the program's administration and oversight.
(c) A recipient's failure to provide priority of service to covered persons will be handled in accordance with the program's established compliance review processes. In addition to the remedies available under the program's compliance review processes, a recipient may be required to submit a corrective action plan to correct such failure.
§ 1010.250
Can priority of service be waived?
No, priority of service cannot be waived.

# Subpart C—Applying Priority of Service
§ 1010.300
What processes are to be implemented to identify covered persons?
(a) Recipients of funds for qualified job training programs must implement processes to identify covered persons who physically access service delivery points or who access virtual service delivery programs or Web sites in order to provide covered persons with timely and useful information on priority of service at the point of entry. Point of entry may include reception through a One-Stop Career Center established pursuant to the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, as part of an application process for a specific program, or through any other method by which covered persons express an interest in receiving services, either in-person or virtually.
(b)(1) The processes for identifying covered persons at the point of entry must be designed to:
(i) Permit the individual to make known his or her covered person status; and
(ii) Permit those qualified job training programs specified in § 1010.330(a)(2) to initiate data collection for covered entrants.
(2) The processes for identifying covered persons are not required to verify the status of an individual as a veteran or eligible spouse at the point of entry unless they immediately undergo eligibility determination and enrollment in a program.
(c) The processes for identifying covered persons must ensure that:
(1) Covered persons are identified at the point of entry to allow covered persons to take full advantage of priority of service; and
(2) Covered persons are to be made aware of:
(i) Their entitlement to priority of service;
(ii) The full array of employment, training, and placement services available under priority of service; and
(iii) Any applicable eligibility requirements for those programs and/or services.
§ 1010.310
How will priority of service be applied?
(a) Recipients of funds for qualified job training programs must implement processes in accordance with § 1010.300 to identify covered persons at the point of entry, whether in person or virtual, so the covered person can be notified of their eligibility for priority of service. Since qualified job training programs may offer various types of services including staff-assisted services as well as self-services or informational activities, recipients also must ensure that priority of service is implemented throughout the full array of services provided to covered persons by the qualified job training program.
(b) Three categories of qualified job training programs affect the application of priority of service: universal access, discretionary targeting and statutory targeting. To obtain priority, a covered person must meet the statutory eligibility requirement(s) applicable to the specific program from which services are sought. For those programs that also have discretionary or statutory priorities or preferences pursuant to a Federal statute or regulation, recipients must coordinate providing priority of service with applying those other priorities, as prescribed in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section.
(1)
Universal access programs
operate or deliver services to the public as a whole; they do not target specific groups. These programs are required to provide priority of service to covered persons.
(2)
Discretionary targeting programs
focus on a particular group, or make efforts to provide a certain level of service to such a group, but do not specifically mandate that the favored group be served before other eligible individuals. Whether these provisions are found in a Federal statute or regulation, priority of service will apply. Covered persons must receive the highest priority for the program or service, and non-covered persons within the discretionary targeting will receive priority over non-covered persons outside the discretionary targeting.
(3)
Statutory targeting programs
are programs derived from a Federal statutory mandate that requires a priority
or preference for a particular group of individuals or requires spending a certain portion of program funds on a particular group of persons receiving services. These are mandatory priorities. Recipients must determine each individual's covered person status and apply priority of service as described below:
(i) Covered persons who meet the mandatory priorities or spending requirement or limitation must receive the highest priority for the program or service;
(ii) Non-covered persons within the program's mandatory priority or spending requirement or limitation, must receive priority for the program or service over covered persons outside the program-specific mandatory priority or spending requirement or limitation; and,
(iii) Covered persons outside the program-specific mandatory priority or spending requirement or limitation must receive priority for the program or service over non-covered persons outside the program-specific mandatory priority or spending requirement or limitation.
§ 1010.320
Will recipients be required to collect information and report on priority of service?
Yes. Every recipient of funds for qualified job training programs must collect such information, maintain such records, and submit reports containing such information and in such formats as the Secretary may require related to the provision of priority of service.
§ 1010.330
What are the responsibilities of recipients to collect and maintain data on covered and non-covered persons?
(a)
General requirements.
Recipients must collect information in accordance with instructions issued by the Department.
(1) Recipients must collect two broad categories of information:
(i) For the qualified job training programs specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, information must be collected on covered persons from the point of entry, as defined in § 1010.300(a), and as provided in paragraph (b) of this section; and,
(ii) For all qualified job training programs, including the programs specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, information must be collected on covered and non-covered persons who receive services, as prescribed by the respective qualified job training programs, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, qualified job training programs that served, at the national level, 1,000 or more veterans per year for the three most recent years of program operations (currently the Wagner-Peyser, WIA Adult, WIA Dislocated Worker, WIA National Emergency Grant, and Senior Community Service Employment Programs) must collect information and report on covered entrants. The Trade Adjustment Assistance Program must collect information and report on covered entrants on the effective date of the next information collection requirement applicable to that program, whether that is for a renewal of an existing approved information collection or for approval of a new information collection.
(3) For purposes of this section, covered persons at the point of entry are referred to as “covered entrants.” This group includes two further subgroups: veterans and eligible spouses as defined in § 1010.110.
(b)
Collection and maintenance of data on covered entrants.
In accordance with instructions issued by the Department, recipients of assistance for the programs specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section must collect and report individual record data for all covered entrants from the point of entry.
(c)
Collection and maintenance of data on covered and non-covered persons who receive services.
In accordance with instructions issued for individual qualified job training programs, all recipients must collect and maintain data on covered and non-covered persons who receive services, including individual record data for those programs that require establishment and submission of individual records for persons receiving services.
(1) The information to be collected shall include, but is not limited to:
(i) The covered and non-covered person status of all persons receiving services;
(ii) The types of services provided to covered and non-covered persons;
(iii) The dates that services were received by covered and non-covered persons; and;
(iv) The employment outcomes experienced by covered and non-covered persons receiving services.
(2)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, for persons receiving services, recipients must apply the definitions set forth in § 1010.110 to distinguish covered from non-covered persons receiving services and, within covered persons, to distinguish veterans from eligible spouses.
(ii) Until qualified job training programs adopt the definitions for covered and non-covered persons set forth at § 1010.110 through the publication of requirements pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act, recipients must collect data on the services provided to and the outcomes experienced by veterans (however defined) and non-veterans receiving services in accord with regulations, policies and currently approved information collections.
(d) All information must be stored and managed in a manner that ensures confidentiality.
Pt. 1011

# PART 1011—HIRE VETS MEDALLION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1011.000
What is the HIRE Vets Medallion Program?
1011.005
What definitions apply to this part?
1011.010
Who is eligible to apply for a HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
1011.015
What are the different types of the HIRE Vets Medallion Awards?

# Subpart B—Award Criteria
1011.100
What are the criteria for the large employer HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
1011.105
What are the criteria for the medium employer HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
1011.110
What are the criteria for the small employer HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
1011.115
Is there an exemption for certain large employers from the dedicated human resources professional criterion for the large employer platinum HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
1011.120
Under what circumstances will VETS find an employer ineligible to receive a HIRE Vets Medallion Award for a violation of labor law?

# Subpart C—Application Process
1011.200
How will VETS administer the HIRE Vets Medallion Award process?
1011.205
What is the timing of the HIRE Vets Medallion Award process?
1011.210
How often can an employer receive the HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
1011.215
How will the employer complete the application for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
1011.220
How will VETS verify a HIRE Vets Medallion Award application?
1011.225
Under what circumstances will VETS conduct further review of an application?
1011.230
Under what circumstances can VETS deny or revoke an award?

# Subpart D—Fees and Caps
1011.300
What are the application fees for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
1011.305
May VETS set a limit on how many applications will be accepted in a year?

# Subpart E—Design and Display
1011.400
What does a successful applicant receive?
1011.405
What are the restrictions on display and use of the HIRE Vets Medallion Award?

# Subpart F—Requests for Reconsideration
1011.500
What is the process to request reconsideration of a denial or revocation?

# Subpart G—Record Retention
1011.600
What are the record retention requirements for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award?

# Authority:
Division O, Pub. L. 115-31, 131 Stat. 135.

# Source:
82 FR 52203, Nov. 13, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1011.000
What is the HIRE Vets Medallion Program?
The HIRE Vets Medallion Program is a voluntary employer recognition program administered by the Department of Labor's Veterans' Employment and Training Service. Through the HIRE
Vets Medallion Program, the Department of Labor solicits voluntary applications from employers for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award. The purpose of this award is to recognize efforts by applicants to recruit, employ, and retain veterans and to provide services supporting the veteran community.
§ 1011.005
What definitions apply to this part?
Active Duty in the United States National Guard or Reserve
means active duty as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(1).
Dedicated human resources professional
means either a full-time professional or the equivalent of a full-time professional dedicated exclusively to supporting the hiring, training, and retention of veteran employees. Two half-time professionals, for example, are equivalent to one full-time professional.
Employee
means any individual for whom the employer furnishes an IRS Form W-2, excluding temporary workers.
Employer
means any person, institution, organization, or other entity that pays salary or wages for work performed or that has control over employee opportunities, except for the Federal Government or any State or foreign government. For the purposes of this regulation, VETS will recognize employers based on the Employer Identification Number, as described in 26 CFR 301.7701-12, used to furnish an IRS Form W-2 to an employee. However, in the case of an agent designated pursuant to 26 CFR 31.3504-1, a payor designated pursuant to 26 CFR 31.3504-2, or a Certified Professional Employer Organization recognized pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 7705, the employer shall be the common law employer, client, or customer, respectively, instead of the entity that furnishes the IRS Form W-2.
Human Resources Veterans' Initiative
means an initiative through which an employer provides support for hiring, training, and retention of veteran employees.
Post-secondary education
means post-secondary level education or training courses that would be acceptable for credit toward at least one of the following: associate's or bachelor's degree or higher, any other recognized post-secondary credential, or an apprenticeship.
Salary
means an employee's base pay.
Temporary worker
means any worker hired with the intention that the worker be retained for less than 1 year and who is actually retained for less than 1 year.
Veteran
has the meaning given such term under 38 U.S.C. 101.
VETS
means the Veterans' Employment and Training Service of the Department of Labor.
§ 1011.010
Who is eligible to apply for a HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
All employers who employ at least one employee are eligible to apply for a HIRE Vets Medallion Award. To qualify for a HIRE Vets Medallion Award, an employer must satisfy all application requirements.
§ 1011.015
What are the different types of the HIRE Vets Medallion Awards?
(a) There are three different categories of the HIRE Vets Medallion Award:
(1)
Large Employer Awards
for employers with 500 or more employees.
(2)
Medium Employer Awards
for employers with more than 50 but fewer than 500 employees.
(3)
Small Employer Awards
for employers with 50 or fewer employees.
(4)
Timing.
The correct category of award is determined by the employer's number of employees as of December 31 of the year prior to the year in which the employer applies for an award.
(b) Within each award category, there are two levels of award:
(1) A Gold Award; and
(2) A Platinum Award.

# Subpart B—Award Criteria
§ 1011.100
What are the criteria for the large employer HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
(a)
Gold Award.
To qualify for a large employer gold HIRE Vets Medallion Award, an employer must satisfy all of the following criteria:
(1) The employer is a large employer as specified in § 1011.015 of this part;
(2) The employer is not found ineligible under § 1011.120 of this part;
(3) Veterans constitute not less than 7 percent of all employees hired by such employer during the prior calendar year;
(4) The employer has retained not less than 75 percent of the veteran employees hired during the calendar year preceding the preceding calendar year for a period of at least 12 months from the date on which the employees were hired;
(5) The employer has established an employee veteran organization or resource group to assist new veteran employees with integration, including coaching and mentoring; and
(6) The employer has established programs to enhance the leadership skills of veteran employees during their employment.
(b)
Platinum Award.
To qualify for a large employer platinum HIRE Vets Medallion Award, an employer must satisfy all of the following criteria:
(1) The employer is a large employer as specified in § 1011.015 of this part;
(2) The employer is not found ineligible under § 1011.120 of this part;
(3) Veterans constitute not less than 10 percent of all employees hired by such employer during the prior calendar year;
(4) The employer has retained not less than 85 percent of the veteran employees hired during the calendar year preceding the preceding calendar year for a period of at least 12 months from the date on which the employees were hired;
(5) The employer has established an employee veteran organization or resource group to assist new veteran employees with integration, including coaching and mentoring;
(6) The employer has established programs to enhance the leadership skills of veteran employees during their employment;
(7) The employer employs a dedicated human resources professional as defined in § 1011.005 of this part to support hiring, training, and retention of veteran employees;
(8) The employer provides each of its employees serving on active duty in the United States National Guard or Reserve with compensation sufficient, in combination with the employee's active duty pay, to achieve a combined level of income commensurate with the employee's salary prior to undertaking active duty; and
(9) The employer has a tuition assistance program to support veteran employees' attendance in post-secondary education during the term of their employment.
§ 1011.105
What are the criteria for the medium employer HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
(a)
Gold Award.
To qualify for a medium employer gold HIRE Vets Medallion Award, an employer must satisfy all of the following criteria:
(1) The employer is a medium employer per § 1011.015 of this part;
(2) The employer is not found ineligible under § 1011.120 of this part;
(3) The employer has achieved at least one of the following:
(i) Veterans constitute not less than 7 percent of all employees hired by such employer during the prior calendar year; or
(ii) The employer has achieved both of the following:
(A) The employer has retained not less than 75 percent of the veteran employees hired during the calendar year preceding the preceding calendar year for a period of at least 12 months from the date on which the employees were hired; and
(B) On December 31 of the year prior to the year in which the employer applies for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award, at least 7 percent of the employer's employees were veterans; and
(4) The employer has at least one of the following forms of integration assistance:
(i) The employer has established an employee veteran organization or resource group to assist new veteran employees with integration, including coaching and mentoring; or
(ii) The employer has established programs to enhance the leadership skills of veteran employees during their employment.
(b)
Platinum Award.
To qualify for a medium employer platinum HIRE Vets Medallion Award, an employer must satisfy all of the following criteria:
(1) The employer is a medium employer as specified in § 1011.015 of this part;
(2) The employer is not found ineligible under § 1011.120 of this part;
(3) The employer has achieved at least one of the following:
(i) Veterans constitute not less than 10 percent of all employees hired by such employer during the prior calendar year; or
(ii) The employer has achieved both of the following:
(A) The employer has retained not less than 85 percent of the veteran employees hired during the calendar year preceding the preceding calendar year for a period of at least 12 months from the date on which the employees were hired; and
(B) On December 31 of the year prior to the year in which the employer applies for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award, at least 10 percent of the employer's employees were veterans;
(4) The employer has the following forms of integration assistance:
(i) The employer has established an employee veteran organization or resource group to assist new veteran employees with integration, including coaching and mentoring; and
(ii) The employer has established programs to enhance the leadership skills of veteran employees during their employment; and
(5) The employer has at least one of the following additional forms of integration assistance:
(i) The employer has established a human resources veterans' initiative;
(ii) The employer provides each of its employees serving on active duty in the United States National Guard or Reserve with compensation sufficient, in combination with the employee's active duty pay, to achieve a combined level of income commensurate with the employee's salary prior to undertaking active duty; or
(iii) The employer has a tuition assistance program to support veteran employees' attendance in post-secondary education during the term of their employment.
§ 1011.110
What are the criteria for the small employer HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
(a)
Gold Award.
To qualify for a small employer gold HIRE Vets Medallion Award, an employer must satisfy all of the following criteria:
(1) The employer is a small employer as specified in § 1011.015 of this part;
(2) The employer is not found ineligible under § 1011.120 of this part; and
(3) The employer has achieved at least one of the following:
(i) Veterans constitute not less than 7 percent of all employees hired by such employer during the prior calendar year; or
(ii) The employer has achieved both of the following:
(A) The employer has retained not less than 75 percent of the veteran employees hired during the calendar year preceding the preceding calendar year for a period of at least 12 months from the date on which the employees were hired; and
(B) On December 31 of the year prior to the year in which the employer applies for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award, at least 7 percent of the employer's employees were veterans.
(b)
Platinum Award.
To qualify for a small employer platinum HIRE Vets Medallion Award, an employer must satisfy all of the following criteria:
(1) The employer is a small employer as specified in § 1011.015 of this part;
(2) The employer is not found ineligible under § 1011.120 of this part;
(3) The employer has achieved at least one of the following:
(i) Veterans constitute not less than 10 percent of all employees hired by such employer during the prior calendar year; or
(ii) The employer has achieved both of the following:
(A) The employer has retained not less than 85 percent of the veteran employees hired during the calendar year preceding the preceding calendar year for a period of at least 12 months from the date on which the employees were hired; and
(B) On December 31 of the year prior to the year in which the employer applies for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award, at least 10 percent of the employer's employees were veterans; and
(4) The employer has at least two of the following forms of integration assistance:
(i) The employer has established an employee veteran organization or resource group to assist new veteran employees with integration, including coaching and mentoring;
(ii) The employer has established programs to enhance the leadership skills of veteran employees during their employment;
(iii) The employer has established a human resources veterans' initiative;
(iv) The employer provides each of its employees serving on active duty in the United States National Guard or Reserve with compensation sufficient, in combination with the employee's active duty pay, to achieve a combined level of income commensurate with the employee's salary prior to undertaking active duty;
(v) The employer has a tuition assistance program to support veteran employees' attendance in post-secondary education during the term of their employment.
§ 1011.115
Is there an exemption for certain large employers from the dedicated human resources professional criterion for the large employer platinum HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
Yes. Large employers who employ 5,000 or fewer employees need not have a dedicated human resources professional to support the hiring and retention of veteran employees. A large employer with 5,000 or fewer employees can satisfy the criterion at § 1011.100(b)(7) by employing at least one human resources professional whose regular work duties include supporting the hiring, training, and retention of veteran employees.
§ 1011.120
Under what circumstances will VETS find an employer ineligible to receive a HIRE Vets Medallion Award for a violation of labor law?
(a) Any employer with an adverse labor law decision, stipulated agreement, contract debarment, or contract termination, as defined in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, pursuant to either of the following labor laws, as amended, will not be eligible to receive an award:
(1) Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA); or
(2) Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act (VEVRAA);
(b) For purposes of this section, an adverse labor law decision means any of the following, issued in the calendar year prior to year in which applications are solicited or the calendar year in which applications are solicited up until the issuance of the award, in which a violation of any of the laws in paragraph (a) of this section is found:
(1) A civil or criminal judgment;
(2) A final administrative merits determination of an administrative adjudicative board or commission; or
(3) A decision of an administrative law judge or other administrative judge that is not appealed and that becomes the final agency action.
(c) For purposes of this section, a stipulated agreement means any agreement (including a settlement agreement, conciliation agreement, consent decree, or other similar document) to which the employer is a party, entered into in the calendar year prior to the year in which applications are solicited or the calendar year in which applications are solicited up until the issuance of the award, that contains an admission that the employer violated either of the laws cited in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) For purposes of this section, a contract debarment means any order or voluntary agreement, pursuant to the laws listed in paragraph (a) of this section, that debars the employer from receiving any future Federal contract. Employers shall be ineligible for an award for the duration of time that the contract debarment is in effect.
(e) For purposes of this section, a contract termination means any order or voluntary agreement, pursuant to the laws listed in paragraph (a) of this section, that terminates an existing Federal contract prior to its completion. Employers shall be ineligible for the award if this termination occurred in the calendar year prior to the year in which applications are solicited or the calendar year in which applications are solicited up until the issuance of the award.
(f) VETS may delay issuing an award to an employer if, at the time the award is to be issued, VETS has credible information that a significant violation of one of the laws in paragraph (a) of this section may have occurred that could lead to an employer being disqualified pursuant to any of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.

# Subpart C—Application Process
§ 1011.200
How will VETS administer the HIRE Vets Medallion Award process?
The Secretary of Labor will annually—
(a) Solicit and accept voluntary applications from employers in order to consider whether those employers should receive a HIRE Vets Medallion Award;
(b) Review applications received in each calendar year;
(c) Notify such recipients of their awards; and
(d) At a time to coincide with the annual commemoration of Veterans Day—
(1) Announce the names of such recipients;
(2) Recognize such recipients through publication in the
Federal Register
; and
(3) Issue to each such recipient—
(i) A HIRE Vets Medallion Award; and
(ii) A certificate stating that such employer is entitled to display such HIRE Vets Medallion Award.
§ 1011.205
What is the timing of the HIRE Vets Medallion Award process?
VETS will review all timely applications that fall under any cap established in § 1011.305 of this part to determine whether an employer should receive a HIRE Vets Medallion Award, and, if so, of what level.
(a)
Performance period
—except as otherwise noted in § 1011.120 of this part, only the employer's actions taken prior to December 31 of the calendar year prior to the calendar year in which applications are solicited will be considered in reviewing the award.
(b)
Solicitation period
—VETS will solicit applications not later than January 31 of each calendar year for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award to be awarded in November of that calendar year.
(c)
End of acceptance period
—VETS will stop accepting applications on April 30 of each calendar year for the awards to be awarded in November of that calendar year.
(d)
Review period
—VETS will finish reviewing applications not later than August 31 of each calendar year for the awards to be awarded in November of that calendar year.
(e)
Selection of recipients
—VETS will select the employers to receive HIRE Vets Medallion Awards not later than September 30 of each calendar year for the awards to be awarded in November of that calendar year.
(f)
Notice of awards and denials
—VETS will notify employers who will receive HIRE Vets Medallion Awards not later than October 11 of each calendar year for the awards to be awarded in November of that calendar year. VETS will also notify applicants who will not be receiving an award at that time.
§ 1011.210
How often can an employer receive the HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
Per section 2(d) of the HIRE Vets Act, an employer who receives a HIRE Vets Medallion Award for 1 calendar year is not eligible to receive a HIRE Vets Medallion Award for the subsequent calendar year.
§ 1011.215
How will the employer complete the application for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
(a) VETS will require all applicants to provide information to establish their eligibility for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award.
(b) VETS may request additional information in support of the application for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award.
(c) The chief executive officer, the chief human resources officer, or an equivalent official of each employer applicant must attest under penalty of perjury that the information the employer has submitted in its application is accurate.
(d) Interested employers can access the application form via the HIRE Vets
Web site accessible from
https://www.hirevets.gov/.
(e) Applicants will complete the application form and submit it electronically.
(f) Applicants who need a reasonable accommodation in accessing the application form, submitting the application form, or submitting the application fee may contact VETS at (202) 693-4700 or TTY (877) 889-5627 (these are not toll-free numbers).
(g) Should the information provided on the application be deemed incomplete, VETS will attempt to contact the applicant. The applicant must respond with the additional information necessary to complete the application form within 5 business days or VETS will deny the application.
§ 1011.220
How will VETS verify a HIRE Vets Medallion Award application?
VETS will verify all information provided by an employer in its application to the extent that such information is relevant in determining whether or not such employer meets the criteria to receive a HIRE Vets Medallion Award or in determining the appropriate level of HIRE Vets Medallion Award for that employer to receive. VETS will verify this information by reviewing all information provided as part of the application.
§ 1011.225
Under what circumstances will VETS conduct further review of an application?
If at any time VETS becomes aware of facts that indicate that the information provided by an employer in its application was incorrect or that the employer does not satisfy the requirements at § 1011.120, VETS may conduct further review of the application. As part of that review, VETS may request information and/or documentation to confirm the accuracy of the information provided by the employer in its application or to confirm that the employer is not ineligible under § 1011.120. Depending on the result of the review, VETS may either deny or revoke the award. If VETS initiates such review prior to issuing the award, VETS will not be required to meet the timeline requirements in this part.
§ 1011.230
Under what circumstances can VETS deny or revoke an award?
(a)
Denial of award.
VETS may deny an award for any of the following reasons:
(1) The applicant fails to provide information and/or documentation as requested under § 1011.225 of this part;
(2) VETS determines that the chief executive officer, the chief human resources officer, or an equivalent official of the applicant falsely attested that the information on the application was true;
(3) The employer is ineligible to receive an award pursuant to § 1011.120 of this part; or
(4) The application does not satisfy all application requirements.
(b)
Revocation of award.
Once the HIRE Vets Medallion Award has been awarded, VETS may revoke the recipient's award for the following reasons:
(1) The HIRE Vets Medallion Award recipient fails to provide information and/or documentation as requested under § 1011.225 of this part;
(2) VETS determines that the chief executive officer, the chief human resources officer, or an equivalent official of the recipient falsely attested that the information on the application was true;
(3) The employer was ineligible to receive an award pursuant to § 1011.120 of this part; or
(4) The employer violated the display restrictions at § 1011.405 of this part.
(c) If VETS decides to deny or revoke an award, it will provide the employer with notice of the decision. An employer may request reconsideration of VETS' decision to deny or revoke an award pursuant to § 1011.500 of this part.

# Subpart D—Fees and Caps
§ 1011.300
What are the application fees for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
(a) The Act requires the Secretary of Labor to establish a fee sufficient to cover the costs associated with carrying out the HIRE Vets Medallion Program.
(b) Table 1 to § 1011.300 sets forth the fees an employer must pay to apply for
the HIRE Vets Medallion Award. VETS will adjust the fees periodically according to the Implicit Price Deflator for Gross Domestic Product published by the U.S. Department of Commerce and notify potential applicants of the adjusted fees.
(1) If a significant adjustment is needed to arrive at a new fee for any reason other than inflation, then a proposed rule containing the new fees will be published in the
Federal Register
for comment.
(2) VETS will round the fee to the nearest dollar.
Table 1 to § 1011.300
Application Fees
Small Employer Fee
$90.00
Medium Employer Fee
190.00
Large Employer Fee
495.00
(c) All applicants must submit the appropriate application processing fee for each application submitted. This fee is based on the fees provided in table 1 to § 1011.300. Payment of this fee must be made electronically through the U.S. Treasury
pay.gov
system or an equivalent.
(d) Once a fee is paid, it is nonrefundable, even if the employer withdraws the application or does not receive a HIRE Vets Medallion Award.
§ 1011.305
May VETS set a limit on how many applications will be accepted in a year?
Yes, VETS may set a limit on how many applications will be accepted in any given year.

# Subpart E—Design and Display
§ 1011.400
What does a successful applicant receive?
(a) The award will be in the form of a certificate and will state the year for which it was awarded.
(b) VETS will also provide a digital image of the medallion for recipients to use, including as part of an advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product.
§ 1011.405
What are the restrictions on display and use of the HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
It is unlawful for any employer to publicly display a HIRE Vets Medallion Award, in connection with, or as a part of, any advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product—
(a) For the purpose of conveying, or in a manner reasonably calculated to convey, a false impression that the employer received the award through the HIRE Vets Medallion Program, if such employer did not receive such award through the HIRE Vets Medallion Program; or
(b) For the purpose of conveying, or in a manner reasonably calculated to convey, a false impression that the employer received the award through the HIRE Vets Medallion Program for a year for which such employer did not receive such award.

# Subpart F—Requests for Reconsideration
§ 1011.500
What is the process to request reconsideration of a denial or revocation?
(a) An applicant may file a request for reconsideration of VETS' decision to deny or revoke a HIRE Vets Medallion Award or of VETS' decision as to the level of award by mailing a request for reconsideration to the following address no later than 15 business days after the date of VETS' notice of its decision. Requests for reconsideration must be sent to: HIRE Vets Medallion Program, DOL VETS, 200 Constitution Ave. NW., Room S1325, Washington, DC 20210.
(b) Requests for reconsideration pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must contain the following:
(1) The employer name and identification number;
(2) The reason for the request; and
(3) An explanation, accompanied by any necessary documentation to support that explanation, of why VETS' decision was incorrect.
(c) VETS may request from the employer filing such request any additional evidence or explanation it finds necessary for reconsideration.
(d) Within 30 business days after the later of the receipt of the request or
the receipt of any additional evidence or explanation requested, VETS will issue a determination about whether to grant or deny the request.
(e) No additional Department of Labor review is available.

# Subpart G—Record Retention
§ 1011.600
What are the record retention requirements for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award?
Applicants must retain a record of all information used to support an application for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award for 2 years from the date of application.
PARTS 1012-1099 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
20 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
20 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter VI
658.410 (b), (c) introductory text, (6), (f) through (k), and (m) revised
628
658.411 (a)(1), (d)(3)(ii), (5)(ii), and (iii)(G) revised; (a)(2)(iii), (3), (4), (b)(1)(ii) introductory text, (ii)(B), (C), (D), (c)(1), (d)(2)(i), (ii), and (3)(i) amended
629
658.419 (a) revised
629
658.501 (a) introductory text, (b), and (c) revised
629
658.601 (a)(1)(ii) and (2)(ii) revised
629
658.602 (l), (o)(1), and (s)(2) revised
629
658.603 Heading, (f) introductory text, (h), (n)(3), (o), (r) introductory text, (1), and (t) revised
630
658.704 (a)(4) revised
630
658.711 (b) revised; eff. 4-20-20
13030
(b) revised
30615
667.830 (b) revised; eff. 4-20-20
13030
(b) revised
30615
683.830 (b) revised; eff. 4-20-20
13030
(b) revised
30616
702.101 Revised
80611
702.203 (b) revised
80612
702.204 Amended
2296
Revised
80612
702.215 Revised
80612
702.233 Heading revised
80612
702.236 Amended
2296
Revised
80612
702.241 Revised
80612
702.242 Revised
80613
702.243 Revised
80613
702.271 (a)(2) amended
2296
Heading and (a) revised; (b) through (d) redesignated as (c) through (e); new (b) added
80614
702.273 Revised
80614
702.433 (e) and (f) revised; eff. 4-20-20
13030
(e) and (f) revised
30616
702.434 Revised; eff. 4-20-20
13030
Revised
30616
702.901—702.912 (Subpart I) Added
80614
725.621 (d) amended
2297
726.302 (c)(2)(i) table, (4), (5), and (6) amended
2297
2021
20 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter VI
658.710 (d) revised
1778
667.800 (d) revised
1779
667.830 (b) revised
1779
683 Authority citation revised
1779
683.800 (d) revised
1779
683.830 (b) revised
1779
Chapter VI
702.101 Regulation at 85 FR 80611 withdrawn
8687
702.203 Regulation at 85 FR 80612 withdrawn
8687
702.204 Amended
2967
702.204 Regulation at 85 FR 80612 withdrawn
8687
702.215 Regulation at 85 FR 80612 withdrawn
8687
702.233 Regulation at 85 FR 80612 withdrawn
8687
702.236 Amended
2967
702.236 Regulation at 85 FR 80612 withdrawn
8687
702.241 Regulation at 85 FR 80612 withdrawn
8687
702.242 Regulation at 85 FR 80613 withdrawn
8687
702.243 Regulation at 85 FR 80613 withdrawn
8687
702.271 (a)(2) amended
2967
702.271 Regulation at 85 FR 80614 withdrawn
8687
702.273 Regulation at 85 FR 80614 withdrawn
8687
702.901—702.912 (Subpart I) Regulation at 85 FR 80614 withdrawn
8687
725.621 (d) amended
2968
726 Authority citation revised
1779
726.302 (c)(2)(i), table, and (4) through (6) amended
2968
726.308 (a) and (b) revised
1779
726.314 Heading and (a) revised
1779
726.316 Revised
1779
726.317 Revised
1779
726.318 Revised
1780
Chapter VII
802.204 Removed
1799
802.204 Regulation at 86 FR 1799 withdrawn
11425
802.207 Removed
1799
802.207 Regulation at 86 FR 1799 withdrawn
11425
802.216
1799
802.216 Regulation at 86 FR 1799 withdrawn
11425
802.219 (d) revised
1799
802.219 Regulation at 86 FR 1799 withdrawn
11425
802.221 Revised
1799
802.221 Regulation at 86 FR 1799 withdrawn
11425
802.222 Added
1799
802.222 Regulation at 86 FR 1799 withdrawn
11425
802.223 Added
1800
802.223 Regulation at 86 FR 1799 withdrawn
11425
2022
20 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter VI
702.204 Amended
2333
702.236 Amended
2333
702.271 (a)(2) amended
2333
725.621 (d) amended
2333
726.302 (c)(2)(i) table introductory text, table, and (4) through (6) amended
2333
2023
20 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter VI
658 Authority citation revised
82731
658.400 (a) amended; (d) revised
82731
658.410 (n) removed; (o) redesignated as new (n); (c), (g), (h), (k), (m), and new (n) revised
82731
658.411 (a)(2)(i), (ii), (3), (b)(1) introductory text, (i), (ii)(A), (B), (D), (E), (c), (d)(1) introductory text, (i), (ii)(A) through (D), (iii), (iv), (3) introductory text, (4), the (5)(i) introductory text, (ii), (iii)(G), and (6) revised; (a)(4) amended; (b)(1)(ii)(F) added
82731
658.417 (b) revised
82732
658.419 (a) revised; (d) added
82732
658.420 (b) and (c) revised
82733
658.421 Heading, (a)(2) introductory text, (c), and (d) revised; (a)(1), (2)(i), and (b) amended
82733
658.422 Heading and (a) through (c) revised
82733
658.424 (d) revised
82733
658.425 (a)(1) revised
82733
658.427 Added
82733
658.602 (f)(2) through (4), (g), (j) introductory text, (8), (l) through (n), (o) introductory text, (p) through (r), (s) introductory text, (2), and (3) revised
82733
658.603 (d)(7), (f)(1) through (3), (g), (i), (k) introductory text, (7), (8), (m), (n)(2), (3), (o)(1), (p), (q), and (s) through (v) revised
82734
658.604 (c)(3)(i) revised
82736
658.702 (a), (d), (e), (f)(2), and (h)(5) revised
82736
658.704 (d) and (f)(2) amended
82736
658.705 (b) introductory text, (3), and (c) through (f) revised
82736
658.706 Revised
82737
658.707 (a) and (b) revised
82737
702.204 Amended
2215
702.236 Amended
2215
702.271 (a)(2) amended
2215
725.621 (d) amended
2215
726.302 (c)(2)(i) introductory text and table following (c)(2)(i) amended
2215
2024
20 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter VI
658.500 Revised
34065
658.501 Revised
34065
658.502 Revised
34066
658.503 Revised
34067
658.504 Revised
34067
677.155 (a)(1)(vi) and (c)(6) revised
13847
677.190 (c) revised
13848
684.460 (a)(6) revised
13613
684.620 (a)(6) revised
13613
686.1010 (f) revised
13613
688.400 (f) revised
13614
Chapter VI
702.204 Amended
1814
702.236 Amended
1814
702.271 (a)(2) amended
1814
725.621 (d) amended
1814
726.101—726.116 (Subpart B) Revised
100318
726.302 (c)(2)(i) introductory text, Table 1, and (4) through (6) amended
1815
Chapter VII
802.204 Removed
8536
802.207 Removed
8536
802.216 Removed
8536
802.219 (d) revised
8536
802.221 Revised
8536
802.222 Added
8536
802.223 Added
8537
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
20 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter VI
702.204 Amended
1858
702.236 Amended
1858
702.271 (a)(2) amended
1858
725.621 (d) amended
1859
726.302 (c)(2)(i) introductory text and (4) through (6) amended; (c)(2)(i) Table 1 revised
1859
○
