(see 5.00G). Consider under a disability for 1 year from the date of the transplant; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).

# 6.00 Genitourinary disorders

# A. Which disorders do we evaluate under these listings?
We evaluate genitourinary disorders resulting in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Examples of such disorders include chronic glomerulonephritis, hypertensive nephropathy, diabetic nephropathy, chronic obstructive uropathy, and hereditary nephropathies. We also evaluate nephrotic syndrome due to glomerular dysfunction under these listings.

# B. What evidence do we need?
1. We need evidence that documents the signs, symptoms, and laboratory findings of your CKD. This evidence should include reports of clinical examinations, treatment records, and documentation of your response to treatment. Laboratory findings, such as serum creatinine or serum albumin levels, may document your kidney function. We generally need evidence covering a period of at least 90 days unless we can make a fully favorable determination or decision without it.
2.
Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR).
The eGFR is an estimate of the filtering capacity of the kidneys that takes into account serum creatinine concentration and other variables, such as your age, gender, and body size. If your medical evidence includes eGFR findings, we will consider them when we evaluate your CKD under 6.05.
3.
Kidney or bone biopsy.
If you have had a kidney or bone biopsy, we need a copy of the pathology report. When we cannot get a copy of the pathology report, we will accept a
statement from an acceptable medical source verifying that a biopsy was performed and describing the results.

# C. What other factors do we consider when we evaluate your genitourinary disorder?
1.
Chronic hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis.
a. Dialysis is a treatment for CKD that uses artificial means to remove toxic metabolic byproducts from the blood. Hemodialysis uses an artificial kidney machine to clean waste products from the blood; peritoneal dialysis uses a dialyzing solution that is introduced into and removed from the abdomen (peritoneal cavity) either continuously or intermittently. Under 6.03, your ongoing dialysis must have lasted or be expected to last for a continuous period of at least 12 months. To satisfy the requirements in 6.03, we will accept a report from an acceptable medical source that describes your CKD and your current dialysis, and indicates that your dialysis will be ongoing.
b. If you are undergoing chronic hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis, your CKD may meet our definition of disability before you started dialysis. We will determine the onset of your disability based on the facts in your case record.
2.
Kidney transplant.
a. If you receive a kidney transplant, we will consider you to be disabled under 6.04 for 1 year from the date of transplant. After that, we will evaluate your residual impairment(s) by considering your post-transplant function, any rejection episodes you have had, complications in other body systems, and any adverse effects related to ongoing treatment.
b. If you received a kidney transplant, your CKD may meet our definition of disability before you received the transplant. We will determine the onset of your disability based on the facts in your case record.
3.
Renal osteodystrophy.
This condition is the bone degeneration resulting from chronic kidney disease-mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD). CKD-MBD occurs when the kidneys are unable to maintain the necessary levels of minerals, hormones, and vitamins required for bone structure and function. Under 6.05B1, “severe bone pain” means frequent or intractable (resistant to treatment) bone pain that interferes with physical activity or mental functioning.
4.
Peripheral neuropathy.
This disorder results when the kidneys do not adequately filter toxic substances from the blood. These toxins can adversely affect nerve tissue. The resulting neuropathy may affect peripheral motor or sensory nerves, or both, causing pain, numbness, tingling, and muscle weakness in various parts of the body. Under 6.05B2, the peripheral neuropathy must be a severe impairment. (See §§ 404.1520(c), 404.1521, 416.920(c), and 416.921 of this chapter.) It must also have lasted or be expected to last for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
5.
Fluid overload syndrome.
This condition occurs when excess sodium and water retention in the body due to CKD results in vascular congestion. Under 6.05B3, we need a description of a physical examination that documents signs and symptoms of vascular congestion, such as congestive heart failure, pleural effusion (excess fluid in the chest), ascites (excess fluid in the abdomen), hypertension, fatigue, shortness of breath, or peripheral edema.
6.
Anasarca
(generalized massive edema or swelling). Under 6.05B3 and 6.06B, we need a description of the extent of edema, including pretibial (in front of the tibia), periorbital (around the eyes), or presacral (in front of the sacrum) edema. We also need a description of any ascites, pleural effusion, or pericardial effusion.
7.
Anorexia (diminished appetite) with weight loss.
Anorexia is a frequent sign of CKD and can result in weight loss. We will use body mass index (BMI) to determine the severity of your weight loss under 6.05B4. (BMI is the ratio of your measured weight to the square of your measured height.) We calculate your BMI using the formulas in the digestive disorders body system (5.00).
8.
Complications of CKD.
The hospitalizations in 6.09 may be for different complications of CKD. Examples of complications from CKD that may result in hospitalization include stroke, congestive heart failure, hypertensive crisis, or acute kidney failure requiring a short course of hemodialysis. If the CKD complication occurs during a hospitalization that was initially for a co-occurring condition, we will evaluate it under our rules for determining medical equivalence. (See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter.) We will evaluate co-occurring conditions, including those that result in hospitalizations, under the listings for the affected body system or under our rules for medical equivalence.

# D. How do we evaluate disorders that do not meet one of the genitourinary listings?
1. The listed disorders are only examples of common genitourinary disorders that we consider severe enough to prevent you from doing any gainful activity. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. (See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter.) Genitourinary disorders may be associated with
disorders in other body systems, and we consider the combined effects of multiple impairments when we determine whether they medically equal a listing. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal the criteria of a listing, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to engage in substantial gainful activity. We proceed to the fourth and, if necessary, the fifth steps of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920 of this chapter. We use the rules in §§ 404.1594 and 416.994 of this chapter, as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 6.01 Category of Impairments, Genitourinary Disorders
6.03
Chronic kidney disease,
with chronic hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis (see 6.00C1).
6.04
Chronic kidney disease,
with kidney transplant. Consider under a disability for 1 year following the transplant; thereafter, evaluate the residual impairment (see 6.00C2).
6.05
Chronic kidney disease,
with impairment of kidney function, with A and B:
A. Reduced glomerular filtration evidenced by one of the following laboratory findings documented on at least two occasions at least 90 days apart during a consecutive 12-month period:
1. Serum creatinine of 4 mg/dL or greater; or
2. Creatinine clearance of 20 ml/min. or less; or
3. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 20 ml/min/1.73m
2
or less.
AND
B. One of the following:
1. Renal osteodystrophy (see 6.00C3) with severe bone pain and imaging studies documenting bone abnormalities, such as osteitis fibrosa, osteomalacia, or pathologic fractures; or
2. Peripheral neuropathy (see 6.00C4); or
3. Fluid overload syndrome (see 6.00C5) documented by one of the following:
a. Diastolic hypertension greater than or equal to diastolic blood pressure of 110 mm Hg despite at least 90 consecutive days of prescribed therapy, documented by at least two measurements of diastolic blood pressure at least 90 days apart during a consecutive 12-month period; or
b. Signs of vascular congestion or anasarca (see 6.00C6) despite at least 90 consecutive days of prescribed therapy, documented on at least two occasions at least 90 days apart during a consecutive 12-month period; or
4. Anorexia with weight loss (see 6.00C7) determined by body mass index (BMI) of 18.0 or less, calculated on at least two occasions at least 90 days apart during a consecutive 12-month period.
6.06
Nephrotic syndrome,
with A and B:
A. Laboratory findings as described in 1 or 2, documented on at least two occasions at least 90 days apart during a consecutive 12-month period:
1. Proteinuria of 10.0 g or greater per 24 hours; or
2. Serum albumin of 3.0 g/dL or less, and
a. Proteinuria of 3.5 g or greater per 24 hours; or
b. Urine total-protein-to-creatinine ratio of 3.5 or greater.
AND
B. Anasarca (see 6.00C6) persisting for at least 90 days despite prescribed treatment.
6.09
Complications of chronic kidney disease
(see 6.00C8) requiring at least three hospitalizations within a consecutive 12-month period and occurring at least 30 days apart. Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, including hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization.

# 7.00 Hematological Disorders

# A. What hematological disorders do we evaluate under these listings?
1. We evaluate non-malignant (non-cancerous) hematological disorders, such as hemolytic anemias (7.05), disorders of thrombosis and hemostasis (7.08), and disorders of bone marrow failure (7.10). These disorders disrupt the normal development and function of white blood cells, red blood cells, platelets, and clotting-factor proteins (factors).
2. We evaluate malignant (cancerous) hematological disorders, such as lymphoma, leukemia, and multiple myeloma, under the appropriate listings in 13.00, except for two lymphomas associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. We evaluate primary central nervous system lymphoma associated with HIV infection under 14.11B, and primary effusion lymphoma associated with HIV infection under 14.11C.

# B. What evidence do we need to document that you have a hematological disorder?
We need the following evidence to document that you have a hematological disorder:
1. A laboratory report of a definitive test that establishes a hematological disorder, signed by a physician; or
2. A laboratory report of a definitive test that establishes a hematological disorder that is not signed by a physician and a report from a physician that states you have the disorder; or
3. When we do not have a laboratory report of a definitive test, a persuasive report from a physician that a diagnosis of your
hematological disorder was confirmed by appropriate laboratory analysis or other diagnostic method(s). To be persuasive, this report must state that you had the appropriate definitive laboratory test or tests for diagnosing your disorder and provide the results, or explain how your diagnosis was established by other diagnostic method(s) consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice.
4. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain the results of appropriate laboratory testing you have had. We will not purchase complex, costly, or invasive tests, such as tests of clotting-factor proteins, and bone marrow aspirations.

# C. What are hemolytic anemias, and how do we evaluate them under 7.05?
1.
Hemolytic anemias, both congenital and acquired,
are disorders that result in premature destruction of red blood cells (RBCs). Hemolytic disorders include abnormalities of hemoglobin structure (hemoglobinopathies), abnormal RBC enzyme content and function, and RBC membrane (envelope) defects that are congenital or acquired. The diagnosis of hemolytic anemia is based on hemoglobin electrophoresis or analysis of the contents of the RBC (enzymes) and membrane. Examples of congenital hemolytic anemias include sickle cell disease, thalassemia and their variants, and hereditary spherocytosis. Acquired hemolytic anemias may result from autoimmune disease (for example, systemic lupus erythematosus) or mechanical devices (for example, heart valves, intravascular patches).
2. The hospitalizations in 7.05B do not all have to be for the same complication of the hemolytic anemia. They may be for three different complications of the disorder. Examples of complications of hemolytic anemia that may result in hospitalization include osteomyelitis, painful (vaso-occlusive) crisis, pulmonary infections or infarctions, acute chest syndrome, pulmonary hypertension, chronic heart failure, gallbladder disease, hepatic (liver) failure, renal (kidney) failure, nephrotic syndrome, aplastic crisis, and stroke. We will count the hours you receive emergency treatment in a comprehensive sickle cell disease center immediately before the hospitalization if this treatment is comparable to the treatment provided in a hospital emergency department.
3. For 7.05C, we do not require hemoglobin to be measured during a period in which you are free of pain or other symptoms of your disorder. We will accept hemoglobin measurements made while you are experiencing complications of your hemolytic anemia.
4. 7.05D refers to the most serious type of beta thalassemia major in which the bone marrow cannot produce sufficient numbers of normal RBCs to maintain life. The only available treatments for beta thalassemia major are life-long RBC transfusions (sometimes called hypertransfusion) or bone marrow transplantation. For purposes of 7.05D, we do not consider prophylactic RBC transfusions to prevent strokes or other complications in sickle cell disease and its variants to be of equal significance to life-saving RBC transfusions for beta thalassemia major. However, we will consider the functional limitations associated with prophylactic RBC transfusions and any associated side effects (for example, iron overload) under 7.18 and any affected body system(s). We will also evaluate strokes and resulting complications under 11.00 and 12.00.

# D. What are disorders of thrombosis and hemostasis, and how do we evaluate them under 7.08?
1.
Disorders of thrombosis and hemostasis
include both clotting and bleeding disorders, and may be congenital or acquired. These disorders are characterized by abnormalities in blood clotting that result in hypercoagulation (excessive blood clotting) or hypocoagulation (inadequate blood clotting). The diagnosis of a thrombosis or hemostasis disorder is based on evaluation of plasma clotting-factor proteins (factors) and platelets. Protein C or protein S deficiency and Factor V Leiden are examples of hypercoagulation disorders. Hemophilia, von Willebrand disease, and thrombocytopenia are examples of hypocoagulation disorders. Acquired excessive blood clotting may result from blood protein defects and acquired inadequate blood clotting (for example, acquired hemophilia A) may be associated with inhibitor autoantibodies.
2. The hospitalizations in 7.08 do not all have to be for the same complication of a disorder of thrombosis and hemostasis. They may be for three different complications of the disorder. Examples of complications that may result in hospitalization include anemias, thromboses, embolisms, and uncontrolled bleeding requiring multiple factor concentrate infusions or platelet transfusions. We will also consider any surgery that you have, even if it is not related to your hematological disorder, to be a complication of your disorder of thrombosis and hemostasis if you require treatment with clotting-factor proteins (for example, factor VIII or factor IX) or anticoagulant medication to control bleeding or coagulation in connection with your surgery. We will count the hours you receive emergency treatment in a comprehensive hemophilia treatment center immediately before the hospitalization if this treatment is comparable to the treatment provided in a hospital emergency department.

# E. What are disorders of bone marrow failure, and how do we evaluate them under 7.10?
1.
Disorders of bone marrow failure
may be congenital or acquired, characterized by bone marrow that does not make enough healthy RBCs, platelets, or granulocytes (specialized types of white blood cells); there may also be a combined failure of these bone marrow-produced cells. The diagnosis is based on peripheral blood smears and bone marrow aspiration or bone marrow biopsy, but not peripheral blood smears alone. Examples of these disorders are myelodysplastic syndromes, aplastic anemia, granulocytopenia, and myelofibrosis. Acquired disorders of bone marrow failure may result from viral infections, chemical exposure, or immunologic disorders.
2. The hospitalizations in 7.10A do not all have to be for the same complication of bone marrow failure. They may be for three different complications of the disorder. Examples of complications that may result in hospitalization include uncontrolled bleeding, anemia, and systemic bacterial, viral, or fungal infections.
3. For 7.10B, the requirement of life-long RBC transfusions to maintain life in myelodysplastic syndromes or aplastic anemias has the same meaning as it does for beta thalassemia major. (See 7.00C4.)

# F. How do we evaluate bone marrow or stem cell transplantation under 7.17?
We will consider you to be disabled for 12 months from the date of bone marrow or stem cell transplantation, or we may consider you to be disabled for a longer period if you are experiencing any serious post-transplantation complications, such as graft-versus-host (GVH) disease, frequent infections after immunosuppressive therapy, or significant deterioration of organ systems. We do not restrict our determination of the onset of disability to the date of the transplantation in 7.17. We may establish an earlier onset date of disability due to your transplantation if evidence in your case record supports such a finding.

# G. How do we use the functional criteria in 7.18?
1. When we use the functional criteria in 7.18, we consider all relevant information in your case record to determine the impact of your hematological disorder on your ability to function independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis in a work setting. Factors we will consider when we evaluate your functioning under 7.18 include, but are not limited to: Your symptoms, the frequency and duration of complications of your hematological disorder, periods of exacerbation and remission, and the functional impact of your treatment, including the side effects of your medication.
2.
Repeated complications
means that the complications occur on an average of three times a year, or once every 4 months, each lasting 2 weeks or more; or the complications do not last for 2 weeks but occur substantially more frequently than three times in a year or once every 4 months; or they occur less frequently than an average of three times a year or once every 4 months but last substantially longer than 2 weeks. Your impairment will satisfy this criterion regardless of whether you have the same kind of complication repeatedly, all different complications, or any other combination of complications; for example, two of the same kind of complication and a different one. You must have the required number of complications with the frequency and duration required in this section. Additionally, the complications must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review.
3. To satisfy the functional criteria in 7.18, your hematological disorder must result in a “marked” level of limitation in one of three general areas of functioning: Activities of daily living, social functioning, or difficulties in completing tasks due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace. Functional limitations may result from the impact of the disease process itself on your mental functioning, physical functioning, or both your mental and physical functioning. This limitation could result from persistent or intermittent symptoms, such as pain, severe fatigue, or malaise, resulting in a limitation of your ability to do a task, to concentrate, to persevere at a task, or to perform the task at an acceptable rate of speed. (
Severe fatigue
means a frequent sense of exhaustion that results in significant reduced physical activity or mental function.
Malaise
means frequent feelings of illness, bodily discomfort, or lack of well-being that result in significantly reduced physical activity or mental function.) You may also have limitations because of your treatment and its side effects.
4.
Marked
limitation means that the symptoms and signs of your hematological disorder interfere
seriously
with your ability to function. Although we do not require the use of such a scale, “marked” would be the fourth point on a five-point scale consisting of no limitation, mild limitation, moderate limitation, marked limitation, and extreme limitation. We do not define “marked” by a specific number of different activities of daily living or different behaviors in which your social functioning is impaired, or a specific number of tasks that you are able to complete, but by the nature and overall degree of interference with your functioning. You may have a marked limitation when several activities or functions are impaired, or even when only one is impaired. Additionally, you need not be totally precluded from
performing an activity to have a marked limitation, as long as the degree of limitation interferes seriously with your ability to function independently, appropriately, and effectively. The term “marked” does not imply that you must be confined to bed, hospitalized, or in a nursing home.
5.
Activities of daily living
include, but are not limited to, such activities as doing household chores, grooming and hygiene, using a post office, taking public transportation, or paying bills. We will find that you have a “marked” limitation in activities of daily living if you have a serious limitation in your ability to maintain a household or take public transportation because of symptoms such as pain, severe fatigue, anxiety, or difficulty concentrating, caused by your hematological disorder (including complications of the disorder) or its treatment, even if you are able to perform some self-care activities.
6.
Social functioning
includes the capacity to interact with others independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis. It includes the ability to communicate effectively with others. We will find that you have a “marked” limitation in maintaining social functioning if you have a serious limitation in social interaction on a sustained basis because of symptoms such as pain, severe fatigue, anxiety, or difficulty concentrating, or a pattern of exacerbation and remission, caused by your hematological disorder (including complications of the disorder) or its treatment, even if you are able to communicate with close friends or relatives.
7.
Completing tasks in a timely manner
involves the ability to sustain concentration, persistence, or pace to permit timely completion of tasks commonly found in work settings. We will find that you have a “marked” limitation in completing tasks if you have a serious limitation in your ability to sustain concentration or pace adequate to complete work-related tasks because of symptoms, such as pain, severe fatigue, anxiety, or difficulty concentrating caused by your hematological disorder (including complications of the disorder) or its treatment, even if you are able to do some routine activities of daily living.

# H. How do we consider your symptoms, including your pain, severe fatigue, and malaise?
Your symptoms, including pain, severe fatigue, and malaise, may be important factors in our determination whether your hematological disorder(s) meets or medically equals a listing, or in our determination whether you are otherwise able to work. We cannot consider your symptoms unless you have medical signs or laboratory findings showing the existence of a medically determinable impairment(s) that could reasonably be expected to produce the symptoms. If you have such an impairment(s), we will evaluate the intensity, persistence, and functional effects of your symptoms using the rules throughout 7.00 and in our other regulations. (See sections 404.1521, 404.1529, 416.921, and 416.929 of this chapter.) Additionally, when we assess the credibility of yourcomplaints about your symptoms and their functional effects, we will not draw any inferences from the fact that you do not receive treatment or that you are not following treatment without considering all of the relevant evidence in your case record, including any explanations you provide that may explain why you are not receiving or following treatment.

# I. How do we evaluate episodic events in hematological disorders?
Some of the listings in this body system require a specific number of events within a consecutive 12-month period. (See 7.05, 7.08, and 7.10A.) When we use such criteria, a consecutive 12-month period means a period of 12 consecutive months, all or part of which must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review. These events must occur at least 30 days apart to ensure that we are evaluating separate events.

# J. How do we evaluate hematological disorders that do not meet one of these listings?
1. These listings are only common examples of hematological disorders that we consider severe enough to prevent a person from doing any gainful activity. If your disorder does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must consider whether you have a disorder that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system. For example, we will evaluate hemophilic joint deformity or bone or joint pain from myelofibrosis under 1.00; polycythemia vera under 3.00, 4.00, or 11.00; chronic iron overload resulting from repeated RBC transfusion (transfusion hemosiderosis) under 3.00, 4.00, or 5.00; and the effects of intracranial bleeding or stroke under 11.00 or 12.00.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. (See sections 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter.) Hematological disorders may be associated with disorders in other body systems, and we consider the combined effects of multiple impairments when we determine whether they medically equal a listing. If your impairment(s) does not medically equal a listing, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to engage in substantial gainful activity. We proceed to the fourth, and, if necessary, the fifth steps of the sequential evaluation process in sections
404.1520 and 416.920. We use the rules in sections 404.1594, 416.994, and 416.994a of this chapter, as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.
7.01 Category of Impairments, Hematological Disorders
7.05
Hemolytic anemias,
including sickle cell disease, thalassemia, and their variants (see 7.00C), with:
A. Documented painful (vaso-occlusive) crises requiring parenteral (intravenous or intramuscular) narcotic medication, occurring at least six times within a 12-month period with at least 30 days between crises.
OR
B. Complications of hemolytic anemia requiring at least three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and occurring at least 30 days apart. Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, which can include hours in a hospital emergency department or comprehensive sickle cell disease center immediately before the hospitalization (see 7.00C2).
OR
C. Hemoglobin measurements of 7.0 grams per deciliter (g/dL) or less, occurring at least three times within a 12-month period with at least 30 days between measurements.
OR
D. Beta thalassemia major requiring life-long RBC transfusions at least once every 6 weeks to maintain life (see 7.00C4).
7.08
Disorders of thrombosis and hemostasis,
including hemophilia and thrombocytopenia (see 7.00D), with complications requiring at least three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and occurring at least 30 days apart. Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, which can include hours in a hospital emergency department or comprehensive hemophilia treatment center immediately before the hospitalization (see 7.00D2).
7.10
Disorders of bone marrow failure,
including myelodysplastic syndromes, aplastic anemia, granulocytopenia, and myelofibrosis (see 7.00E), with:
A. Complications of bone marrow failure requiring at least three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and occurring at least 30 days apart. Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, which can include hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization (see 7.00E2).
OR
B. Myelodysplastic syndromes or aplastic anemias requiring life-long RBC transfusions at least once every 6 weeks to maintain life (see 7.00E3).
7.17
Hematological disorders treated by bone marrow or stem cell transplantation
(see 7.00F). Consider under a disability for at least 12 consecutive months from the date of transplantation. After that, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
7.18
Repeated complications of hematological disorders
(see 7.00G2), including those complications listed in 7.05, 7.08, and 7.10 but without the requisite findings for those listings, or other complications (for example, anemia, osteonecrosis, retinopathy, skin ulcers, silent central nervous system infarction, cognitive or other mental limitation, or limitation of joint movement), resulting in significant, documented symptoms or signs (for example, pain, severe fatigue, malaise, fever, night sweats, headaches, joint or muscle swelling, or shortness of breath), and one of the following at the marked level (see 7.00G4):
A. Limitation of activities of daily living (see 7.00G5).
B. Limitation in maintaining social functioning (see 7.00G6).
C. Limitation in completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace (see 7.00G7).

# 8.00 Skin Disorders
A.
Which skin disorders do we evaluate under these listings?
We use these listings to evaluate skin disorders that result from hereditary, congenital, or acquired pathological processes. We evaluate genetic photosensitivity disorders (8.07), burns (8.08), and chronic conditions of the skin or mucous membranes such as ichthyosis, bullous disease, dermatitis, psoriasis, and hidradenitis suppurativa (8.09) under these listings.
B.
What are our definitions for the following terms used in this body system?
1.
Assistive device(s):
An assistive device, for the purposes of these listings, is any device used to improve stability, dexterity, or mobility. An assistive device can be hand-held, such as a cane(s), a crutch(es), or a walker; used in a seated position, such as a wheelchair, rollator, or power operated vehicle; or worn, such as a prosthesis or an orthosis.
2.
Chronic skin lesions:
Chronic skin lesions can have recurrent exacerbations (see 8.00B7). They can occur despite prescribed medical treatment. These chronic skin lesions can develop on any part of your body, including upper extremities, lower extremities, palms of your hands, soles of your feet, the perineum, inguinal (groin) region, and axillae (underarms). Chronic skin lesions may result in functional limitations as described in 8.00D2.
3.
Contractures:
Contractures are permanent fibrous scar tissue resulting in tightening and thickening of skin that prevents normal movement of the damaged area. They can develop on any part of your musculoskeletal system, including upper extremities, lower extremities, palms of your hands, soles of your feet, the perineum, inguinal
(groin) region, and axillae (underarms). Contractures may result in functional limitations as described in 8.00D2.
4.
Documented medical need:
When we use the term “documented medical need,” we mean that there is evidence (see §§ 404.1513 and 416.913 of this chapter) from your medical source(s) in the medical record that supports your need for an assistive device (see 8.00B1) for a continuous period of at least 12 months. The evidence must include documentation from your medical source(s) describing any limitation(s) in your upper or lower extremity functioning that supports your need for the assistive device and describing the circumstances for which you need it. The evidence does not have to include a specific prescription for the device.
5.
Fine and gross movements:
Fine movements, for the purposes of these listings, involve use of your wrists, hands, and fingers; such movements include picking, pinching, manipulating, and fingering. Gross movements involve use of your shoulders, upper arms, forearms, and hands; such movements include handling, gripping, grasping, holding, turning, and reaching. Gross movements also include exertional activities such as lifting, carrying, pushing, and pulling.
6.
Surgical management:
For the purposes of these listings, surgical management includes the surgery(ies) itself, as well as various post-surgical procedures, surgical complications, infections or other medical complications, related illnesses, or related treatments that delay a person's attainment of maximum benefit from surgery.
7.
Exacerbation:
For the purposes of these listings, exacerbation means an increase in the signs or symptoms of the skin disorder. Exacerbation may also be referred to as flare, flare-up, or worsening of the skin disorder.
C.
What evidence do we need to evaluate your skin disorder?
1. To establish the presence of a skin disorder as a medically determinable impairment, we need objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source (AMS) who has examined you for the disorder.
2. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain your medical history, treatment records, and relevant laboratory findings, but we will not purchase genetic testing.
3. When we evaluate the presence and severity of your skin disorder(s), we generally need information regarding:
a. The onset, duration, and frequency of exacerbations (see 8.00B7);
b. The prognosis of your skin disorder;
c. The location, size, and appearance of lesions and contractures;
d. Any available history of familial incidence;
e. Your exposure to toxins, allergens or irritants; seasonal variations; and stress factors;
f. Your ability to function outside of a highly protective environment (see 8.00E4);
g. Laboratory findings (for example, a biopsy obtained independently of Social Security disability evaluation or results of blood tests);
h. Evidence from other medically acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice; and
i. Statements you or others make about your disorder(s), your restrictions, and your daily activities.
D.
How do we evaluate the severity of skin disorders?
1.
General.
We evaluate the severity of skin disorders based on the site(s) of your chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3), functional limitations caused by your signs and symptoms (including pain) (see 8.00D2), and how your prescribed treatment affects you. We consider the frequency and severity of your exacerbations (see 8.00B7), how quickly they resolve, and how you function between exacerbations (see 8.00B7), to determine whether your skin disorder meets or medically equals a listing (see 8.00D3). If there is no record of ongoing medical treatment for your disorder, we will follow the guidelines in 8.00D6. We will determine the extent and kinds of evidence we need from medical and non-medical sources based on the individual facts about your disorder. For our basic rules on evidence, see §§ 404.1512, 404.1513, 404.1520b, 416.912, 416.913, and 416.920b of this chapter. For our rules on evaluating your symptoms, see §§ 404.1529 and 416.929 of this chapter.
2.
Limitation(s) of physical functioning due to skin disorders.
a. Skin disorders may be due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3), and may cause pain or restrict movement, which can limit your ability to initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities. For example, skin lesions in the axilla may limit your ability to raise or reach with the affected arm, or lesions in the inguinal region may limit your ability to ambulate, sit, or lift and carry. To evaluate your skin disorder(s) under 8.07B, 8.08, and 8.09, we require medically documented evidence of physical limitation(s) of functioning related to your disorder. The decrease in physical function must have lasted, or can be expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months (see §§ 404.1509 and 416.909 of this chapter). Xeroderma pigmentosum is the only skin disorder that does not include functional criteria because the characteristics and severity of the disorder itself are sufficient to meet the criteria in 8.07A.
b. The functional criteria require impairment-related physical limitations in using upper or lower extremities that have lasted, or can be expected to last, for a continuous
period of at least 12 months, medically documented by one of the following:
(i) Inability to use both upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 8.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3); or
(ii) Inability to use one upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 8.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3), and a documented medical need (see 8.00B4) for an assistive device (see 8.00B1) that requires the use of the other upper extremity; or
(iii) Inability to stand up from a seated position and maintain an upright position to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) affecting at least two extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region); or
(iv) Inability to maintain an upright position while standing or walking to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) affecting both lower extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region).
3.
Frequency of exacerbations due to chronic skin lesions.
A skin disorder resulting in chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) may have frequent exacerbations (see 8.00B7) severe enough to meet a listing even if each individual skin lesion exacerbation (see 8.00B7) did not last for an extended amount of time. We will consider the frequency, severity, and duration of skin lesion exacerbations (see 8.00B7), how quickly they resolve, and how you function in the time between skin lesion exacerbations (see 8.00B7), to determine whether your skin disorder meets or medically equals a listing.
4.
Symptoms (including pain).
Your symptoms may be an important factor in our determination of whether your skin disorder(s) meets or medically equals a listing, or whether you are otherwise able to work. We consider your symptoms only when you have a medically determinable impairment that could reasonably be expected to produce the symptoms. See §§ 404.1529 and 416.929 of this chapter.
5.
Treatment.
a.
General.
Treatments for skin disorders may have beneficial or adverse effects, and responses to treatment vary from person to person. Your skin disorder's response to treatment may vary due to treatment resistance or side effects that can result in functional limitations. We will evaluate all of the effects of treatment (including surgical treatment, medications, and therapy) on the symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings of your skin disorder, and on your ability to function.
b.
Despite adherence to prescribed medical treatment for 3 months.
Under 8.09, we require that your symptoms persist “despite adherence to prescribed medical treatment for 3 months.” This requirement means that you must have taken prescribed medication(s) or followed other medical treatment prescribed by a medical source for 3 consecutive months. Treatment or effects of treatment may be temporary. In most cases, sufficient time must elapse to allow us to evaluate your response to treatment, including any side effects. For our purposes, “sufficient time” means a period of at least 3 months. If your treatment has not lasted for at least 3 months, we will follow the rules in 8.00D6a. The 3 months adherence to prescribed medical treatment must be within the period of at least 12 months that we use to evaluate severity.
c.
Treatment with PUVA (psoralen and ultraviolet A (UVA) light) or biologics.
If you receive additional treatment with PUVA or biologics to treat your skin disorder(s), we will defer adjudication of your claim for 6 months from the start of treatment with PUVA or biologics to evaluate the effectiveness of these treatments unless we can make a fully favorable determination or decision on another basis.
6.
No record of ongoing treatment.
a. Despite having a skin disorder, you may not have received ongoing treatment, may have just begun treatment, may not have access to prescribed medical treatment, or may not have an ongoing relationship with the medical community. In any of these situations, you will not have a longitudinal medical record for us to review when we evaluate your disorder. In some instances, we may be able to assess the severity and duration of your skin disorder based on your medical record and current evidence alone. We may ask you to attend a consultative examination to determine the severity and potential duration of your skin disorder (see §§ 404.1519a and 416.919a of this chapter).
b. If, for any reason, you have not received treatment, your skin disorder cannot meet the criteria for 8.09. If the information in your case record is not sufficient to show that you have a skin disorder that meets the criteria of one of the skin disorders listings, we will follow the rules in 8.00I.
E.
How do we evaluate genetic photosensitivity disorders under 8.07?
Genetic photosensitivity disorders are disorders of the skin caused by an increase in the sensitivity of the skin to sources of ultraviolet light, including sunlight.
1.
Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) (8.07A).
XP is a genetic photosensitivity disorder with lifelong hypersensitivity to all forms of ultraviolet light. Laboratory testing confirms the diagnosis by documenting abnormalities in the body's ability to repair DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) mutations after ultraviolet light exposure. Your skin disorder meets the requirements of 8.07A if you have clinical and laboratory findings supporting a diagnosis of XP (see 8.00E3).
2.
Other genetic photosensitivity disorders (8.07B).
The effects of other genetic photosensitivity disorders may vary and may not persist over time. To meet the requirements of 8.07B, a genetic photosensitivity disorder other than XP must be established by clinical and laboratory findings (see 8.00C) and must result either in chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) that result in functional limitations (see 8.00D2), or must result in the inability to function outside of a highly protective environment (see 8.00E4). Some genetic photosensitivity disorders can have very serious effects on other body systems, especially special senses and speech, neurological, mental, and cancer. We will evaluate your disorder(s) under the listings in 2.00, 11.00, 12.00, or 13.00, as appropriate.
3.
What evidence do we need to document that you have XP or another genetic photosensitivity disorder?
We will make a reasonable effort to obtain evidence of your disorder(s), but we will not purchase genetic testing. When the results of genetic tests are part of the existing evidence in your case record, we will evaluate the test results with all other relevant evidence. We need the following clinical and laboratory findings to document that you have XP or another genetic photosensitivity disorder:
a. A laboratory report of a definitive genetic test documenting appropriate chromosomal changes, including abnormal DNA repair or another DNA abnormality specific to your type of photosensitivity disorder, signed by an AMS; or
b. A laboratory report of a definitive test that is not signed by an AMS, and a report from an AMS stating that you have undergone definitive genetic laboratory studies documenting appropriate chromosomal changes, including abnormal DNA repair or another DNA abnormality specific to your type of photosensitivity disorder; or
c. If we do not have a laboratory report of a definitive test, we need documentation from an AMS that an appropriate laboratory analysis or other diagnostic method(s) confirms a positive diagnosis of your skin disorder. This documentation must state that you had the appropriate definitive laboratory test(s) for diagnosing your disorder and provide the results, or explain how another diagnostic method(s), consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice, established your diagnosis.
4.
Inability to function outside of a highly protective environment
means that you must avoid exposure to ultraviolet light (including sunlight passing through windows and light from similar unshielded light sources), wear protective clothing and eyeglasses, and use opaque broad-spectrum sunscreens in order to avoid skin cancer or other serious effects.
F.
How do we evaluate burns under 8.08?
1. Electrical, chemical, or thermal burns frequently affect other body systems, for example, musculoskeletal, special senses and speech, respiratory, cardiovascular, genitourinary, neurological, or mental. We evaluate burns in the same way we evaluate other disorders that can affect the skin and other body systems, using the listing for the predominant feature of your disorder. For example, if your soft tissue injuries resulting from burns are under surgical management (as defined in 8.00B6), we will evaluate your disorder under the listings in 1.00.
2. We evaluate burns resulting in chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) that have been documented by an AMS to have reached maximum therapeutic benefit and therefore are no longer receiving surgical management, under 8.08. To be disabling, these burns must result in functional limitation(s) (see 8.00D2) that has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
G.
How do we evaluate chronic conditions of the skin or mucous membranes under 8.09?
We evaluate skin disorders that result in chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) under 8.09. These disorders must result in chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) that continue to persist despite adherence to prescribed medical treatment for 3 months (see 8.00D5b) and cause functional limitations (see 8.00D2). Examples of skin disorders evaluated under this listing are ichthyosis, bullous diseases (such as pemphigus, epidermolysis bullosa, and dermatitis herpetiformis), chronic skin infections, dermatitis, psoriasis, and hidradenitis suppurativa.
H.
How do we evaluate disorders in other body systems that affect the skin?
When your disorder(s) in another body system affects your skin, we first evaluate the predominant feature of your disorder(s) under the appropriate body system. Examples of disorders in other body systems that may affect the skin include the following:
1.
Diabetes mellitus.
Diabetes mellitus that is not well controlled, despite treatment, can cause chronic hyperglycemia resulting in serious, long-lasting or recurrent exacerbations (see 8.00B7) or complications. We evaluate those exacerbations (see 8.00B7) or
complications under the affected body system(s). If the complication involves soft tissue or amputation(s), we evaluate these features under the listings in 1.00. If the exacerbations (see 8.00B7) or complications involve chronic bacterial or fungal skin lesions resulting from diabetes mellitus, we evaluate your limitations from the skin disorder under listing 8.09.
2.
Tuberous sclerosis.
The predominant functionally limiting features of tuberous sclerosis are seizures and intellectual disorder or other mental disorders. We evaluate these features under the listings in 11.00 or 12.00, as appropriate.
3.
Malignant tumors of the skin.
Malignant tumors of the skin (for example, malignant melanomas) are cancers, or malignant neoplastic diseases, that we evaluate under the listings in 13.00.
4.
Immune system disorders.
We evaluate skin manifestations of immune system disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, psoriasis, and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection under the listings in 14.00.
5.
Head or facial disfigurement or deformity, and other physical deformities caused by skin disorders.
A head or facial disfigurement or deformity may result in loss of your sight, hearing, speech, or ability to chew. In addition to head and facial disfigurement and deformity, other physical deformities may result in associated psychological problems (for example, depression). We evaluate the effects of head or facial disfigurement or deformity, or other physical deformities caused by skin disorders under the listings in 1.00, 2.00, 5.00, or 12.00, as appropriate.
I.
How do we evaluate skin disorders that do not meet one of these listings?
1. These listings are only examples of common skin disorders that we consider severe enough to prevent you from doing any gainful activity. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to engage in substantial gainful activity. We proceed to the fourth step and, if necessary, the fifth step of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920 of this chapter. We use the rules in §§ 404.1594 and 416.994 of this chapter, as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.
8.01 Category of Impairments, Skin Disorders
8.02-8.06 [Reserved]
8.07
Genetic photosensitivity disorders,
established as described in 8.00E. The requirements of this listing are met if either paragraph A or paragraph B is satisfied.
A. Xeroderma pigmentosum (see 8.00E1).

# OR
B. Other genetic photosensitivity disorders (see 8.00E2) with either 1 or 2:
1. Chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) that cause an inability to function outside of a highly protective environment (see 8.00E4); or
2. Chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) causing chronic pain or other physical limitation(s) that result in impairment-related functional limitations (see 8.00D2), as evidenced by:
a. Inability to use both upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 8.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3); or
b. Inability to use one upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 8.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3), and a documented medical need (see 8.00B4) for an assistive device (see 8.00B1) that requires the use of the other upper extremity; or
c. Inability to stand up from a seated position and maintain an upright position to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) affecting at least two extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region); or
d. Inability to maintain an upright position while standing or walking to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities, due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) affecting both lower extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region).
8.08
Burns
(see 8.00F). Burns that do not require continuing surgical management (see 8.00B6), or that have been documented by an acceptable medical source to have reached maximum therapeutic benefit and therefore are no longer receiving surgical management, resulting in chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) causing chronic pain or other physical limitation(s) that result in impairment-related functional limitations (see 8.00D2), as evidenced by:
A. Inability to use both upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine
and gross movements (see 8.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3).

# OR
B. Inability to use one upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 8.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3), and a documented medical need (see 8.00B4) for an assistive device (see 8.00B1) that requires the use of the other upper extremity.

# OR
C. Inability to stand up from a seated position and maintain an upright position to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) affecting at least two extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region).

# OR
D. Inability to maintain an upright position while standing or walking to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) affecting both lower extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region).
8.09
Chronic conditions of the skin or mucous membranes
(see 8.00G) resulting in:
A. Chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) causing chronic pain or other physical limitation(s) that persist despite adherence to prescribed medical treatment for 3 months (see 8.00D5b).

# AND
B. Impairment-related functional limitations (see 8.00D2) demonstrated by 1, 2, 3, or 4:
1. Inability to use both upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 8.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3); or
2. Inability to use one upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 8.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3), and a documented medical need (see 8.00B4) for an assistive device (see 8.00B1) that requires the use of the other upper extremity; or
3. Inability to stand up from a seated position and maintain an upright position to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) affecting at least two extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region); or
4. Inability to maintain an upright position while standing or walking to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 8.00B2) or contractures (see 8.00B3) affecting both lower extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region).

# 9.00 Endocrine Disorders
A.
What is an endocrine disorder?
An endocrine disorder is a medical condition that causes a hormonal imbalance. When an endocrine gland functions abnormally, producing either too much of a specific hormone (hyperfunction) or too little (hypofunction), the hormonal imbalance can cause various complications in the body. The major glands of the endocrine system are the pituitary, thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, and pancreas.
B.
How do we evaluate the effects of endocrine disorders?
We evaluate impairments that result from endocrine disorders under the listings for other body systems. For example:
1.
Pituitary gland disorders
can disrupt hormone production and normal functioning in other endocrine glands and in many body systems. The effects of pituitary gland disorders vary depending on which hormones are involved. For example, when pituitary hypofunction affects water and electrolyte balance in the kidney and leads to diabetes insipidus, we evaluate the effects of recurrent dehydration under 6.00.
2.
Thyroid gland disorders
affect the sympathetic nervous system and normal metabolism. We evaluate thyroid-related changes in blood pressure and heart rate that cause arrhythmias or other cardiac dysfunction under 4.00; thyroid-related weight loss under 5.00; hypertensive cerebrovascular accidents (strokes) under 11.00; and cognitive limitations, mood disorders, and anxiety under 12.00.
3.
Parathyroid gland disorders
affect calcium levels in bone, blood, nerves, muscle, and other body tissues. We evaluate parathyroid-related osteoporosis and fractures under 1.00; abnormally elevated calcium levels in the blood (hypercalcemia) that lead to cataracts under 2.00; kidney failure under 6.00; and recurrent abnormally low blood calcium levels (hypocalcemia) that lead to increased excitability of nerves and muscles, such as tetany and muscle spasms, under 11.00.
4.
Adrenal gland disorders
affect bone calcium levels, blood pressure, metabolism, and
mental status. We evaluate adrenal-related osteoporosis with fractures that compromises the ability to walk or to use the upper extremities under 1.00; adrenal-related hypertension that worsens heart failure or causes recurrent arrhythmias under 4.00; adrenal-related weight loss under 5.00; and mood disorders under 12.00.
5.
Diabetes mellitus and other pancreatic gland disorders
disrupt the production of several hormones, including insulin, that regulate metabolism and digestion. Insulin is essential to the absorption of glucose from the bloodstream into body cells for conversion into cellular energy. The most common pancreatic gland disorder is
diabetes mellitus
(DM). There are two major types of DM: type 1 and type 2. Both type 1 and type 2 DM are chronic disorders that can have serious disabling complications that meet the duration requirement. Type 1 DM—previously known as “juvenile diabetes” or “insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus” (IDDM)—is an absolute deficiency of insulin production that commonly begins in childhood and continues throughout adulthood. Treatment of type 1 DM always requires lifelong daily insulin. With type 2 DM—previously known as “adult-onset diabetes mellitus” or “non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus” (NIDDM)—the body's cells resist the effects of insulin, impairing glucose absorption and metabolism. Treatment of type 2 DM generally requires lifestyle changes, such as increased exercise and dietary modification, and sometimes insulin in addition to other medications. While both type 1 and type 2 DM are usually controlled, some persons do not achieve good control for a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, hypoglycemia unawareness, other disorders that can affect blood glucose levels, inability to manage DM due to a mental disorder, or inadequate treatment.
a.
Hyperglycemia.
Both types of DM cause hyperglycemia, which is an abnormally high level of blood glucose that may produce acute and long-term complications. Acute complications of hyperglycemia include diabetic ketoacidosis. Long-term complications of chronic hyperglycemia include many conditions affecting various body systems.
(i)
Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA).
DKA is an acute, potentially life-threatening complication of DM in which the chemical balance of the body becomes dangerously hyperglycemic and acidic. It results from a severe insulin deficiency, which can occur due to missed or inadequate daily insulin therapy or in association with an acute illness. It usually requires hospital treatment to correct the acute complications of dehydration, electrolyte imbalance, and insulin deficiency. You may have serious complications resulting from your treatment, which we evaluate under the affected body system. For example, we evaluate cardiac arrhythmias under 4.00, intestinal necrosis under 5.00, and cerebral edema and seizures under 11.00. Recurrent episodes of DKA may result from mood or eating disorders, which we evaluate under 12.00.
(ii)
Chronic hyperglycemia.
Chronic hyperglycemia, which is longstanding abnormally high levels of blood glucose, leads to long-term diabetic complications by disrupting nerve and blood vessel functioning. This disruption can have many different effects in other body systems. For example, we evaluate diabetic peripheral neurovascular disease that leads to gangrene and subsequent amputation of an extremity under 1.00; diabetic retinopathy under 2.00; coronary artery disease and peripheral vascular disease under 4.00; diabetic gastroparesis that results in abnormal gastrointestinal motility under 5.00; diabetic nephropathy under 6.00; poorly healing bacterial and fungal skin infections under 8.00; diabetic peripheral and sensory neuropathies under 11.00; and cognitive impairments, depression, and anxiety under 12.00.
b.
Hypoglycemia.
Persons with DM may experience episodes of hypoglycemia, which is an abnormally low level of blood glucose. Most adults recognize the symptoms of hypoglycemia and reverse them by consuming substances containing glucose; however, some do not take this step because of hypoglycemia unawareness. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to complications, including seizures or loss of consciousness, which we evaluate under 11.00, or altered mental status and cognitive deficits, which we evaluate under 12.00.
C.
How do we evaluate endocrine disorders that do not have effects that meet or medically equal the criteria of any listing in other body systems?
If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing in another body system, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to engage in substantial gainful activity. In this situation, we proceed to the fourth and, if necessary, the fifth steps of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920. When we decide whether you continue to be disabled, we use the rules in §§ 404.1594, 416.994, and 416.994a.

# 10.00 Congenital Disorders that Affect Multiple Body Systems
A.
Which disorder do we evaluate under this body system?
Although Down syndrome exists in non-mosaic and mosaic forms, we evaluate only non-mosaic Down syndrome under this body system.
B.
What is non-mosaic Down syndrome?
Non-mosaic Down syndrome is a genetic disorder. Most people with non-mosaic Down syndrome have three copies of chromosome 21 in all of their cells (chromosome 21 trisomy); some have an extra copy of chromosome 21 attached to a different chromosome in all of their cells (chromosome 21 translocation).
Virtually all people with non-mosaic Down syndrome have characteristic facial or other physical features, delayed physical development, and intellectual disability. People with non-mosaic Down syndrome may also have congenital heart disease, impaired vision, hearing problems, and other disorders. We evaluate non-mosaic Down syndrome under 10.06. If you have non-mosaic Down syndrome documented as described in 10.00C, we consider you disabled from birth.

# C.
What evidence do we need to document non-mosaic Down syndrome under 10.06?
1. Under 10.06A, we will find you disabled based on laboratory findings.
a. To find that your disorder meets 10.06A, we need a copy of the laboratory report of karyotype analysis, which is the definitive test to establish non-mosaic Down syndrome. We will not purchase karyotype analysis. We will not accept a fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) test because it does not distinguish between the mosaic and non-mosaic forms of Down syndrome.
b. If a physician (see §§ 404.1513(a)(1) and 416.913(a)(1) of this chapter) has not signed the laboratory report of karyotype analysis, the evidence must also include a physician's statement that you have Down syndrome.
c. For purposes of 10.06A, we do not require additional evidence stating that you have the distinctive facial or other physical features of Down syndrome.
2. If we do not have a laboratory report of karyotype analysis showing that you have non-mosaic Down syndrome, we may find you disabled under 10.06B or 10.06C.
a. Under 10.06B, we need a physician's report stating: (i) your karyotype diagnosis or evidence that documents your type of Down syndrome is consistent with prior karyotype analysis (for example, reference to a diagnosis of “trisomy 21”), and (ii) that you have the distinctive facial or other physical features of Down syndrome. We do not require a detailed description of the facial or other physical features of the disorder. However, we will not find that your disorder meets 10.06B if we have evidence—such as evidence of functioning inconsistent with the diagnosis—that indicates that you do not have non-mosaic Down syndrome.
b. If we do not have evidence of prior karyotype analysis (you did not have testing, or you had testing but we do not have information from a physician about the test results), we will find that your disorder meets 10.06C if we have: (i) a physician's report stating that you have the distinctive facial or other physical features of Down syndrome, and (ii) evidence that your functioning is consistent with a diagnosis of non-mosaic Down syndrome. This evidence may include medical or nonmedical information about your physical and mental abilities, including information about your education, work history, or the results of psychological testing. However, we will not find that your disorder meets 10.06C if we have evidence—such as evidence of functioning inconsistent with the diagnosis—that indicates that you do not have non-mosaic Down syndrome.

# D. How do we evaluate mosaic Down syndrome and other congenital disorders that affect multiple body systems?
1.
Mosaic Down syndrome.
Approximately 2 percent of people with Down syndrome have the mosaic form. In mosaic Down syndrome, there are some cells with an extra copy of chromosome 21 and other cells with the normal two copies of chromosome 21. Mosaic Down syndrome can be so slight as to be undetected clinically, but it can also be profound and disabling, affecting various body systems.
2.
Other congenital disorders that affect multiple body systems.
Other congenital disorders, such as congenital anomalies, chromosomal disorders, dysmorphic syndromes, inborn metabolic syndromes, and perinatal infectious diseases, can cause deviation from, or interruption of, the normal function of the body or can interfere with development. Examples of these disorders include both the juvenile and late-onset forms of Tay-Sachs disease, trisomy X syndrome (XXX syndrome), fragile X syndrome, phenylketonuria (PKU), caudal regression syndrome, and fetal alcohol syndrome. For these disorders and other disorders like them, the degree of deviation, interruption, or interference, as well as the resulting functional limitations and their progression, may vary widely from person to person and may affect different body systems.
3.
Evaluating the effects of mosaic Down syndrome or another congenital disorder under the listings.
When the effects of mosaic Down syndrome or another congenital disorder that affects multiple body systems are sufficiently severe we evaluate the disorder under the appropriate affected body system(s), such as musculoskeletal, special senses and speech, neurological, or mental disorders. Otherwise, we evaluate the specific functional limitations that result from the disorder under our other rules described in 10.00E.

# E. What if your disorder does not meet a listing?
If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will consider whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to engage in substantial gainful activity. We proceed to the fourth, and if necessary, the fifth steps of the sequential evaluation process in
§§ 404.1520 and 416.920 of this chapter. We use the rules in §§ 404.1594 and 416.994 of this chapter, as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 10.01 Category of Impairments, Congenital Disorders That Affect Multiple Body Systems
10.06
Non-mosaic Down syndrome
(chromosome 21 trisomy or chromosome 21 translocation), documented by:
A. A laboratory report of karyotype analysis signed by a physician, or both a laboratory report of karyotype analysis not signed by a physician
and
a statement by a physician that you have Down syndrome (see 10.00C1), or
B. A physician's report stating that you have chromosome 21 trisomy or chromosome 21 translocation consistent with prior karyotype analysis with the distinctive facial or other physical features of Down syndrome (see 10.00C2a), or
C. A physician's report stating that you have Down syndrome with the distinctive facial or other physical features
and
evidence demonstrating that you function at a level consistent with non-mosaic Down syndrome (see 10.00C2b).

# 11.00 Neurological Disorders
A.
Which neurological disorders do we evaluate under these listings?
We evaluate epilepsy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, coma or persistent vegetative state (PVS), and neurological disorders that cause disorganization of motor function, bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction, communication impairment, or a combination of limitations in physical and mental functioning. We evaluate neurological disorders that may manifest in a combination of limitations in physical and mental functioning. For example, if you have a neurological disorder that causes mental limitations, such as Huntington's disease or early-onset Alzheimer's disease, which may limit executive functioning (e.g., regulating attention, planning, inhibiting responses, decision-making), we evaluate your limitations using the functional criteria under these listings (see 11.00G). Under this body system, we evaluate the limitations resulting from the impact of the neurological disease process itself. If your neurological disorder results in only mental impairment or if you have a co-occurring mental condition that is not caused by your neurological disorder (for example, dementia), we will evaluate your mental impairment under the mental disorders body system, 12.00.
B.
What evidence do we need to document your neurological disorder?
1. We need both medical and non-medical evidence (signs, symptoms, and laboratory findings) to assess the effects of your neurological disorder. Medical evidence should include your medical history, examination findings, relevant laboratory tests, and the results of imaging. Imaging refers to medical imaging techniques, such as x-ray, computerized tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and electroencephalography (EEG). The imaging must be consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice as the proper technique to support the evaluation of the disorder. In addition, the medical evidence may include descriptions of any prescribed treatment and your response to it. We consider non-medical evidence such as statements you or others make about your impairments, your restrictions, your daily activities, or your efforts to work.
2. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain the results of your laboratory and imaging evidence. When the results of any of these tests are part of the existing evidence in your case record, we will evaluate the test results and all other relevant evidence. We will not purchase imaging, or other diagnostic tests, or laboratory tests that are complex, may involve significant risk, or that are invasive. We will not routinely purchase tests that are expensive or not readily available.
C.
How do we consider adherence to prescribed treatment in neurological disorders?
In 11.02 (Epilepsy), 11.06 (Parkinsonian syndrome), and 11.12 (Myasthenia gravis), we require that limitations from these neurological disorders exist despite adherence to prescribed treatment. “Despite adherence to prescribed treatment” means that you have taken medication(s) or followed other treatment procedures for your neurological disorder(s) as prescribed by a physician for three consecutive months but your impairment continues to meet the other listing requirements despite this treatment. You may receive your treatment at a health care facility that you visit regularly, even if you do not see the same physician on each visit.
D.
What do we mean by disorganization of motor function?
1.
Disorganization of motor function
means interference, due to your neurological disorder, with movement of two extremities;
i.e.,
the lower extremities, or upper extremities (including fingers, wrists, hands, arms, and shoulders). By two extremities we mean both lower extremities, or both upper extremities, or one upper extremity and one lower extremity. All listings in this body system, except for 11.02 (Epilepsy), 11.10 (Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis), and 11.20 (Coma and persistent vegetative state), include criteria for disorganization of motor function that results in an extreme limitation in your ability to:
a. Stand up from a seated position; or
b. Balance while standing or walking; or
c. Use the upper extremities (including fingers, wrists, hands, arms, and shoulders).
2.
Extreme limitation
means the inability to stand up from a seated position, maintain balance in a standing position and while walking, or use your upper extremities to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities. The assessment of motor function depends on the degree of interference with standing up; balancing while standing or walking; or using the upper extremities (including fingers, hands, arms, and shoulders).
a. Inability to stand up from a seated position means that once seated you are unable to stand and maintain an upright position without the assistance of another person or the use of an assistive device, such as a walker, two crutches, or two canes.
b. Inability to maintain balance in a standing position means that you are unable to maintain an upright position while standing or walking without the assistance of another person or an assistive device, such as a walker, two crutches, or two canes.
c. Inability to use your upper extremities means that you have a loss of function of both upper extremities (including fingers, wrists, hands, arms, and shoulders) that very seriously limits your ability to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross motor movements. Inability to perform fine and gross motor movements could include not being able to pinch, manipulate, and use your fingers; or not being able to use your hands, arms, and shoulders to perform gross motor movements, such as handling, gripping, grasping, holding, turning, and reaching; or not being able to engage in exertional movements such a lifting, carrying, pushing, and pulling.
E.
How do we evaluate communication impairments under these listings?
We must have a description of a recent comprehensive evaluation including all areas of communication, performed by an acceptable medical source, to document a communication impairment associated with a neurological disorder. A communication impairment may occur when a medically determinable neurological impairment results in dysfunction in the parts of the brain responsible for speech and language. We evaluate communication impairments associated with neurological disorders under 11.04A, 11.07C, or 11.11B. We evaluate communication impairments due to non-neurological disorders under 2.09.
1. Under 11.04A, we need evidence documenting that your central nervous system vascular accident or insult (CVA) and sensory or motor aphasia have resulted in ineffective speech or communication.
Ineffective speech or communication
means there is an extreme limitation in your ability to understand or convey your message in simple spoken language resulting in your inability to demonstrate basic communication skills, such as following one-step commands or telling someone about your basic personal needs without assistance.
2. Under 11.07C, we need evidence documenting that your cerebral palsy has resulted in significant interference in your ability to speak, hear, or see. We will find you have “significant interference” in your ability to speak, hear, or see if your signs, such as aphasia, strabismus, or sensorineural hearing loss, seriously limit your ability to communicate on a sustained basis.
3. Under 11.11B, we need evidence documenting that your post-polio syndrome has resulted in the inability to produce intelligible speech.
F.
What do we mean by bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction?
The bulbar region of the brain is responsible for controlling the bulbar muscles in the throat, tongue, jaw, and face. Bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction refers to weakness in these muscles, resulting in breathing, swallowing, and speaking impairments. Listings 11.11 (Post-polio syndrome), 11.12 (Myasthenia gravis), and 11.22 (Motor neuron disorders other than ALS) include criteria for evaluating bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction. If your neurological disorder has resulted in a breathing disorder, we may evaluate that condition under the respiratory system, 3.00.
G.
How do we evaluate limitations in physical and mental functioning under these listings?
1. Neurological disorders may manifest in a combination of limitations in physical and mental functioning. We consider all relevant information in your case record to determine the effects of your neurological disorder on your physical and mental functioning. To satisfy the requirement described under 11.00G, your neurological disorder must result in a marked limitation in physical functioning and a marked limitation in at least one of four areas of mental functioning: Understanding, remembering, or applying information; interacting with others; concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace; or adapting or managing oneself. If your neurological disorder results in an extreme limitation in at least one of the four areas of mental functioning, or results in marked limitation in at least two of the four areas of mental functioning, but you do not have at least a marked limitation in your physical functioning, we will consider whether your condition meets or medically equals one of the mental disorders body system listings, 12.00.
2.
Marked Limitation.
To satisfy the requirements of the functional criteria, your neurological disorder must result in a marked limitation in physical functioning and a marked limitation in one of the four areas of mental functioning (see 11.00G3). Although we do not require the use of such a scale, “marked” would be the fourth point on a five-point scale consisting of no limitation, mild limitation, moderate limitation, marked limitation, and extreme limitation.
We consider the nature and overall degree of interference with your functioning. The term “marked” does not require that you must be confined to bed, hospitalized, or in a nursing home.
a.
Marked limitation and physical functioning.
For this criterion, a marked limitation means that, due to the signs and symptoms of your neurological disorder, you are seriously limited in the ability to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related physical activities (see 11.00G3). You may have a marked limitation in your physical functioning when your neurological disease process causes persistent or intermittent symptoms that affect your abilities to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities, such as standing, balancing, walking, using both upper extremities for fine and gross movements, or results in limitations in using one upper and one lower extremity. The persistent and intermittent symptoms must result in a serious limitation in your ability to do a task or activity on a sustained basis. We do not define “marked” by a specific number of different physical activities or tasks that demonstrate your ability, but by the overall effects of your neurological symptoms on your ability to perform such physical activities on a consistent and sustained basis. You need not be totally precluded from performing a function or activity to have a marked limitation, as long as the degree of limitation seriously limits your ability to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related physical activities.
b.
Marked limitation and mental functioning.
For this criterion, a marked limitation means that, due to the signs and symptoms of your neurological disorder, you are seriously limited in the ability to function independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis in work settings (see 11.03G3). We do not define “marked” by a specific number of mental activities, such as: The number of activities that demonstrate your ability to understand, remember, and apply information; the number of tasks that demonstrate your ability to interact with others; a specific number of tasks that demonstrate you are able to concentrate, persist or maintain pace; or a specific number of tasks that demonstrate you are able to manage yourself. You may have a marked limitation in your mental functioning when several activities or functions are impaired, or even when only one is impaired. You need not be totally precluded from performing an activity to have a marked limitation, as long as the degree of limitation seriously limits your ability to function independently, appropriately, and effectively on a sustained basis, and complete work-related mental activities.
3.
Areas of physical and mental functioning.
a.
Physical functioning.
Examples of this criterion include specific motor abilities, such as independently initiating, sustaining, and completing the following activities: Standing up from a seated position, balancing while standing or walking, or using both your upper extremities for fine and gross movements (see 11.00D). Physical functioning may also include functions of the body that support motor abilities, such as the abilities to see, breathe, and swallow (see 11.00E and 11.00F). Examples of when your limitation in seeing, breathing, or swallowing may, on its own, rise to a “marked” limitation include: Prolonged and uncorrectable double vision causing difficulty with balance; prolonged difficulty breathing requiring the use of a prescribed assistive breathing device, such as a portable continuous positive airway pressure machine; or repeated instances, occurring at least weekly, of aspiration without causing aspiration pneumonia. Alternatively, you may have a combination of limitations due to your neurological disorder that together rise to a “marked” limitation in physical functioning. We may also find that you have a “marked” limitation in this area if, for example, your symptoms, such as pain or fatigue (see 11.00T), as documented in your medical record, and caused by your neurological disorder or its treatment, seriously limit your ability to independently initiate, sustain, and complete these work-related motor functions, or the other physical functions or physiological processes that support those motor functions. We may also find you seriously limited in an area if, while you retain some ability to perform the function, you are unable to do so consistently and on a sustained basis. The limitation in your physical functioning must last or be expected to last at least 12 months. These examples illustrate the nature of physical functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples.
b.
Mental functioning.
(i)
Understanding, remembering, or applying information.
This area of mental functioning refers to the abilities to learn, recall, and use information to perform work activities. Examples include: Understanding and learning terms, instructions, procedures; following one- or two-step oral instructions to carry out a task; describing work activity to someone else; asking and answering questions and providing explanations; recognizing a mistake and correcting it; identifying and solving problems; sequencing multi-step activities; and using reason and judgment to make work-related decisions. These examples illustrate the nature of this area of mental functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples.
(ii)
Interacting with others.
This area of mental functioning refers to the abilities to relate to and work with supervisors, co-
workers, and the public. Examples include: Cooperating with others; asking for help when needed; handling conflicts with others; stating your own point of view; initiating or sustaining conversation; understanding and responding to social cues (physical, verbal, emotional); responding to requests, suggestions, criticism, correction, and challenges; and keeping social interactions free of excessive irritability, sensitivity, argumentativeness, or suspiciousness. These examples illustrate the nature of this area of mental functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples.
(iii)
Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace.
This area of mental functioning refers to the abilities to focus attention on work activities and to stay on-task at a sustained rate. Examples include: Initiating and performing a task that you understand and know how to do; working at an appropriate and consistent pace; completing tasks in a timely manner; ignoring or avoiding distractions while working; changing activities or work settings without being disruptive; working close to or with others without interrupting or distracting them; sustaining an ordinary routine and regular attendance at work; and working a full day without needing more than the allotted number or length of rest periods during the day. These examples illustrate the nature of this area of mental functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples.
(iv)
Adapting or managing oneself.
This area of mental functioning refers to the abilities to regulate emotions, control behavior, and maintain well-being in a work setting. Examples include: Responding to demands; adapting to changes; managing your psychologically based symptoms; distinguishing between acceptable and unacceptable work performance; setting realistic goals; making plans for yourself independently of others; maintaining personal hygiene and attire appropriate to a work setting; and being aware of normal hazards and taking appropriate precautions. These examples illustrate the nature of this area of mental functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples.
4.
Signs and symptoms of your disorder and the effects of treatment.
a. We will consider your signs and symptoms and how they affect your ability to function in the work place. When we evaluate your functioning, we will consider whether your signs and symptoms are persistent or intermittent, how frequently they occur and how long they last, their intensity, and whether you have periods of exacerbation and remission.
b. We will consider the effectiveness of treatment in improving the signs, symptoms, and laboratory findings related to your neurological disorder, as well as any aspects of treatment that may interfere with your ability to function. We will consider, for example: The effects of medications you take (including side effects); the time-limited efficacy of some medications; the intrusiveness, complexity, and duration of your treatment (for example, the dosing schedule or need for injections); the effects of treatment, including medications, therapy, and surgery, on your functioning; the variability of your response to treatment; and any drug interactions.
H.
What is epilepsy, and how do we evaluate it under 11.02?
1.
Epilepsy
is a pattern of recurrent and unprovoked seizures that are manifestations of abnormal electrical activity in the brain. There are various types of generalized and “focal” or partial seizures. However, psychogenic nonepileptic seizures and pseudoseizures are not epileptic seizures for the purpose of 11.02. We evaluate psychogenic seizures and pseudoseizures under the mental disorders body system, 12.00. In adults, the most common potentially disabling seizure types are
generalized tonic-clonic seizures
and
dyscognitive seizures
(formerly complex partial seizures).
a.
Generalized tonic-clonic seizures
are characterized by loss of consciousness accompanied by a tonic phase (sudden muscle tensing causing the person to lose postural control) followed by a clonic phase (rapid cycles of muscle contraction and relaxation, also called convulsions). Tongue biting and incontinence may occur during generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and injuries may result from falling.
b.
Dyscognitive seizures
are characterized by alteration of consciousness without convulsions or loss of muscle control. During the seizure, blank staring, change of facial expression, and automatisms (such as lip smacking, chewing or swallowing, or repetitive simple actions, such as gestures or verbal utterances) may occur. During its course, a dyscognitive seizure may progress into a generalized tonic-clonic seizure (see 11.00H1a).
2.
Description of seizure.
We require at least one detailed description of your seizures from someone, preferably a medical professional, who has observed at least one of your typical seizures. If you experience more than one type of seizure, we require a description of each type.
3.
Serum drug levels.
We do not require serum drug levels; therefore, we will not purchase them. However, if serum drug levels are available in your medical records, we will evaluate them in the context of the other evidence in your case record.
4.
Counting seizures.
The period specified in 11.02A, B, C, or D cannot begin earlier than one month after you began prescribed treatment. The required number of seizures must occur within the period we are considering in
connection with your application or continuing disability review. When we evaluate the frequency of your seizures, we also consider your adherence to prescribed treatment (see 11.00C). When we determine the number of seizures you have had in the specified period, we will:
a. Count multiple seizures occurring in a 24-hour period as one seizure.
b. Count status epilepticus (a continuous series of seizures without return to consciousness between seizures) as one seizure.
c. Count a dyscognitive seizure that progresses into a generalized tonic-clonic seizure as one generalized tonic-clonic seizure.
d. We do not count seizures that occur during a period when you are not adhering to prescribed treatment without good reason. When we determine that you had good reason for not adhering to prescribed treatment, we will consider your physical, mental, educational, and communicative limitations (including any language barriers). We will consider you to have good reason for not following prescribed treatment if, for example, the treatment is very risky for you due to its consequences or unusual nature, or if you are unable to afford prescribed treatment that you are willing to accept, but for which no free community resources are available. We will follow guidelines found in our policy, such as §§ 404.1530(c) and 416.930(c) of this chapter, when we determine whether you have a good reason for not adhering to prescribed treatment.
e. We do not count psychogenic nonepileptic seizures or pseudoseizures under 11.02. We evaluate these seizures under the mental disorders body system, 12.00.
5.
Electroencephalography (EEG) testing.
We do not require EEG test results; therefore, we will not purchase them. However, if EEG test results are available in your medical records, we will evaluate them in the context of the other evidence in your case record.
I.
What is vascular insult to the brain, and how do we evaluate it under 11.04?
1.
Vascular insult to the brain
(cerebrum, cerebellum, or brainstem), commonly referred to as stroke or cerebrovascular accident (CVA), is brain cell death caused by an interruption of blood flow within or leading to the brain, or by a hemorrhage from a ruptured blood vessel or aneurysm in the brain. If you have a vision impairment resulting from your vascular insult, we may evaluate that impairment under the special senses body system, 2.00.
2. We need evidence of sensory or motor aphasia that results in ineffective speech or communication under 11.04A (see 11.00E). We may evaluate your communication impairment under listing 11.04C if you have marked limitation in physical functioning and marked limitation in one of the four areas of mental functioning.
3. We generally need evidence from at least 3 months after the vascular insult to evaluate whether you have disorganization of motor functioning under 11.04B, or the impact that your disorder has on your physical and mental functioning under 11.04C. In some cases, evidence of your vascular insult is sufficient to allow your claim within 3 months post-vascular insult. If we are unable to allow your claim within 3 months after your vascular insult, we will defer adjudication of the claim until we obtain evidence of your neurological disorder at least 3 months post-vascular insult.
J.
What are benign brain tumors, and how do we evaluate them under 11.05?
Benign brain tumors are noncancerous (nonmalignant) abnormal growths of tissue in or on the brain that invade healthy brain tissue or apply pressure on the brain or cranial nerves. We evaluate their effects on your functioning as discussed in 11.00D and 11.00G. We evaluate malignant brain tumors under the cancer body system in 13.00. If you have a vision impairment resulting from your benign brain tumor, we may evaluate that impairment under the special senses body system, 2.00.
K.
What is Parkinsonian syndrome, and how do we evaluate it under 11.06?
Parkinsonian syndrome is a term that describes a group of chronic, progressive movement disorders resulting from loss or decline in the function of dopamine-producing brain cells. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that regulates muscle movement throughout the body. When we evaluate your Parkinsonian syndrome, we will consider your adherence to prescribed treatment (see 11.00C).
L.
What is cerebral palsy, and how do we evaluate it under 11.07?
1.
Cerebral palsy (CP)
is a term that describes a group of static, nonprogressive disorders caused by abnormalities within the brain that disrupt the brain's ability to control movement, muscle coordination, and posture. The resulting motor deficits manifest very early in a person's development, with delayed or abnormal progress in attaining developmental milestones. Deficits may become more obvious as the person grows and matures over time.
2. We evaluate your signs and symptoms, such as ataxia, spasticity, flaccidity, athetosis, chorea, and difficulty with precise movements when we determine your ability to stand up, balance, walk, or perform fine and gross motor movements. We will also evaluate your signs, such as dysarthria and apraxia of speech, and receptive and expressive language problems when we determine your ability to communicate.
3. We will consider your other impairments or signs and symptoms that develop secondary to the disorder, such as post-impairment syndrome (a combination of pain, fatigue, and weakness due to muscle abnormalities); overuse syndromes (repetitive motion injuries); arthritis; abnormalities of proprioception (perception of the movements and position of the body); abnormalities of stereognosis (perception and identification of objects by touch); learning problems; anxiety; and depression.
M.
What are spinal cord disorders, and how do we evaluate them under 11.08?
1.
Spinal cord disorders
may be congenital or caused by injury to the spinal cord. Motor signs and symptoms of spinal cord disorders include paralysis, flaccidity, spasticity, and weakness.
2.
Spinal cord disorders with complete loss of function
(11.08A) addresses spinal cord disorders that result in a complete lack of motor, sensory, and autonomic function of the affected part(s) of the body.
3.
Spinal cord disorders with disorganization of motor function
(11.08B) addresses spinal cord disorders that result in less than a complete loss of function of the affected part(s) of the body, reducing, but not eliminating, motor, sensory, and autonomic function.
4. When we evaluate your spinal cord disorder, we generally need evidence from at least 3 months after your symptoms began in order to evaluate your disorganization of motor function. In some cases, evidence of your spinal cord disorder may be sufficient to allow your claim within 3 months after the spinal cord disorder. If the medical evidence demonstrates total cord transection causing a loss of motor and sensory functions below the level of injury, we will not wait 3 months but will make the allowance decision immediately.
N.
What is multiple sclerosis, and how do we evaluate it under 11.09?
1.
Multiple sclerosis (MS)
is a chronic, inflammatory, degenerative disorder that damages the myelin sheath surrounding the nerve fibers in the brain and spinal cord. The damage disrupts the normal transmission of nerve impulses within the brain and between the brain and other parts of the body, causing impairment in muscle coordination, strength, balance, sensation, and vision. There are several forms of MS, ranging from mildly to highly aggressive. Milder forms generally involve acute attacks (exacerbations) with partial or complete recovery from signs and symptoms (remissions). Aggressive forms generally exhibit a steady progression of signs and symptoms with few or no remissions. The effects of all forms vary from person to person.
2. We evaluate your signs and symptoms, such as flaccidity, spasticity, spasms, incoordination, imbalance, tremor, physical fatigue, muscle weakness, dizziness, tingling, and numbness when we determine your ability to stand up, balance, walk, or perform fine and gross motor movements. When determining whether you have limitations of physical and mental functioning, we will consider your other impairments or signs and symptoms that develop secondary to the disorder, such as fatigue; visual loss; trouble sleeping; impaired attention, concentration, memory, or judgment; mood swings; and depression. If you have a vision impairment resulting from your MS, we may evaluate that impairment under the special senses body system, 2.00.
O.
What is amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and how do we evaluate it under 11.10? Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
is a type of motor neuron disorder that rapidly and progressively attacks the nerve cells responsible for controlling voluntary muscles. We establish ALS under 11.10 when you have a documented diagnosis of ALS. We require documentation based on generally accepted methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice. We require laboratory testing to establish the diagnosis when the clinical findings of upper and lower motor neuron disease are not present in three or more regions. Electrophysiological studies, such as nerve conduction velocity studies and electromyography (EMG), may support your diagnosis of ALS; however, we will not purchase these studies.
P.
What are neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system, such as Huntington's disease, Friedreich's ataxia, and spinocerebellar degeneration, and how do we evaluate them under 11.17?
Neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system are disorders characterized by progressive and irreversible degeneration of neurons or their supporting cells. Over time, these disorders impair many of the body's motor, cognitive, and other mental functions. We consider neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system under 11.17 that we do not evaluate elsewhere in section 11.00, such as Huntington's disease (HD), Friedreich's ataxia, spinocerebellar degeneration, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), early-onset Alzheimer's disease, and frontotemporal dementia (Pick's disease). When these disorders result in solely cognitive and other mental function effects, we will evaluate the disorder under the mental disorder listings.
Q.
What is traumatic brain injury, and how do we evaluate it under 11.18?
1.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI)
is damage to the brain resulting from skull fracture, collision with an external force leading to a closed head injury, or penetration by an object that enters the skull and makes contact with brain tissue. We evaluate TBI that results in coma or persistent vegetative state (PVS) under 11.20.
2. We generally need evidence from at least 3 months after the TBI to evaluate whether you have disorganization of motor function under 11.18A or the impact that your disorder has on your physical and mental functioning under 11.18B. In some cases, evidence of your TBI is sufficient to determine disability within 3 months post-TBI. If we are unable to allow your claim within 3 months post-TBI, we will defer adjudication of the claim until we obtain evidence of your neurological disorder at least 3 months post-TBI. If a finding of disability still is not possible at that time, we will again defer adjudication of the claim until we obtain evidence at least 6 months after your TBI.
R.
What are coma and persistent vegetative state, and how do we evaluate them under 11.20?
Coma is a state of unconsciousness in which a person does not exhibit a sleep/wake cycle, and is unable to perceive or respond to external stimuli. People who do not fully emerge from coma may progress into a persistent vegetative state (PVS). PVS is a condition of partial arousal in which a person may have a low level of consciousness but is still unable to react to external stimuli. In contrast to coma, a person in a PVS retains sleep/wake cycles and may exhibit some key lower brain functions, such as spontaneous movement, opening and moving eyes, and grimacing. Coma or PVS may result from TBI, a nontraumatic insult to the brain (such as a vascular insult, infection, or brain tumor), or a neurodegenerative or metabolic disorder. Medically induced comas are not considered under 11.20 and should be considered under the section pertaining to the underlying reason the coma was medically induced and not under this section.
S.
What are motor neuron disorders, other than ALS, and how do we evaluate them under 11.22?
Motor neuron disorders such as progressive bulbar palsy, primary lateral sclerosis (PLS), and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) are progressive neurological disorders that destroy the cells that control voluntary muscle activity, such as walking, breathing, swallowing, and speaking. We evaluate the effects of these disorders on motor functioning, bulbar and neuromuscular functioning, oral communication, or limitations in physical and mental functioning.
T.
How do we consider symptoms of fatigue in these listings?
Fatigue is one of the most common and limiting symptoms of some neurological disorders, such as multiple sclerosis, post-polio syndrome, and myasthenia gravis. These disorders may result in physical fatigue (lack of muscle strength) or mental fatigue (decreased awareness or attention). When we evaluate your fatigue, we will consider the intensity, persistence, and effects of fatigue on your functioning. This may include information such as the clinical and laboratory data and other objective evidence concerning your neurological deficit, a description of fatigue considered characteristic of your disorder, and information about your functioning. We consider the effects of physical fatigue on your ability to stand up, balance, walk, or perform fine and gross motor movements using the criteria described in 11.00D. We consider the effects of physical and mental fatigue when we evaluate your physical and mental functioning described in 11.00G.
U.
How do we evaluate your neurological disorder when it does not meet one of these listings?
1. If your neurological disorder does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether your impairment(s) meets the criteria of a listing in another body system. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter.
2. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal the criteria of a listing, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to perform your past relevant work or adjust to other work that exists in significant numbers in the national economy, which we determine at the fourth and, if necessary, the fifth steps of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920 of this chapter.
3. We use the rules in §§ 404.1594 and 416.994 of this chapter, as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 11.01 Category of Impairments, Neurological Disorders
11.02
Epilepsy,
documented by a detailed description of a typical seizure and characterized by A, B, C, or D:
A. Generalized tonic-clonic seizures (see 11.00H1a), occurring at least once a month for at least 3 consecutive months (see 11.00H4) despite adherence to prescribed treatment (see 11.00C); or
B. Dyscognitive seizures (see 11.00H1b), occurring at least once a week for at least 3 consecutive months (see 11.00H4) despite adherence to prescribed treatment (see 11.00C); or
C. Generalized tonic-clonic seizures (see 11.00H1a), occurring at least once every 2 months for at least 4 consecutive months (see 11.00H4) despite adherence to prescribed treatment (see 11.00C); and a marked limitation in one of the following:
1. Physical functioning (see 11.00G3a); or
2. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
3. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
4. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
5. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)); or
D. Dyscognitive seizures (see 11.00H1b), occurring at least once every 2 weeks for at least 3 consecutive months (see 11.00H4) despite adherence to prescribed treatment (see 11.00C); and a marked limitation in one of the following:
1. Physical functioning (see 11.00G3a); or
2. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
3. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
4. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
5. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).
11.03 [Reserved]
11.04
Vascular insult to the brain,
characterized by A, B, or C:
A. Sensory or motor aphasia resulting in ineffective speech or communication (see 11.00E1) persisting for at least 3 consecutive months after the insult; or
B. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities, persisting for at least 3 consecutive months after the insult; or
C. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a) and in one of the following areas of mental functioning, both persisting for at least 3 consecutive months after the insult:
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).
11.05
Benign brain tumors,
characterized by A or B:
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities; or
B. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a), and in one of the following:
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).
11.06
Parkinsonian syndrome,
characterized by A or B despite adherence to prescribed treatment for at least 3 consecutive months (see 11.00C):
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities; or
B. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a), and in one of the following:
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).
11.07
Cerebral palsy,
characterized by A, B, or C:
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities; or
B. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a), and in one of the following:
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)); or
C. Significant interference in communication due to speech, hearing, or visual deficit (see 11.00E2).
11.08
Spinal cord disorders,
characterized by A, B, or C:
A. Complete loss of function, as described in 11.00M2, persisting for 3 consecutive months after the disorder (see 11.00M4); or
B. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities persisting for 3 consecutive months after the disorder (see 11.00M4); or
C. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a) and in one of the following areas of mental functioning, both persisting for 3 consecutive months after the disorder (see 11.00M4):
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).
11.09
Multiple sclerosis,
characterized by A or B:
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an
extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities; or
B. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a), and in one of the following:
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).
11.10
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
established by clinical and laboratory findings (see 11.00O).
11.11
Post-polio syndrome,
characterized by A, B, C, or D:
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities; or
B. Unintelligible speech (see 11.00E3); or
C. Bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction (see 11.00F), resulting in:
1. Acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation; or
2. Need for supplemental enteral nutrition via a gastrostomy or parenteral nutrition via a central venous catheter; or
D. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a), and in one of the following:
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).
11.12
Myasthenia gravis,
characterized by A, B, or C despite adherence to prescribed treatment for at least 3 months (see 11.00C):
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities; or
B. Bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction (see 11.00F), resulting in:
1. One myasthenic crisis requiring mechanical ventilation; or
2. Need for supplemental enteral nutrition via a gastrostomy or parenteral nutrition via a central venous catheter; or
C. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a), and in one of the following:
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).
11.13
Muscular dystrophy,
characterized by A or B:
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities; or
B. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a), and in one of the following:
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).
11.14
Peripheral neuropathy,
characterized by A or B:
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities; or
B. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a), and in one of the following:
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).
11.15 [Reserved]
11.16 [Reserved]
11.17
Neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system, such as Huntington's disease, Friedreich's ataxia, and spinocerebellar degeneration,
characterized by A or B:
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities; or
B. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a), and in one of the following:
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).
11.18
Traumatic brain injury,
characterized by A or B:
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities, persisting for at least 3 consecutive months after the injury; or
B. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a), and in one of the following areas of mental functioning, persisting for at least 3 consecutive months after the injury:
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).
11.19 [Reserved]
11.20
Coma or persistent vegetative state,
persisting for at least 1 month.
11.21 [Reserved]
11.22
Motor neuron disorders other than ALS,
characterized by A, B, or C:
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 11.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 11.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities; or
B. Bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction (see 11.00F), resulting in:
1. Acute respiratory failure requiring invasive mechanical ventilation; or
2. Need for supplemental enteral nutrition via a gastrostomy or parenteral nutrition via a central venous catheter; or
C. Marked limitation (see 11.00G2) in physical functioning (see 11.00G3a), and in one of the following:
1. Understanding, remembering, or applying information (see 11.00G3b(i)); or
2. Interacting with others (see 11.00G3b(ii)); or
3. Concentrating, persisting, or maintaining pace (see 11.00G3b(iii)); or
4. Adapting or managing oneself (see 11.00G3b(iv)).

# 12.00 Mental Disorders
A.
How are the listings for mental disorders arranged, and what do they require?
1. The listings for mental disorders are arranged in 11 categories: Neurocognitive disorders (12.02); schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic disorders (12.03); depressive, bipolar and related disorders (12.04); intellectual disorder (12.05); anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorders (12.06); somatic symptom and related disorders (12.07); personality and impulse-control disorders (12.08); autism spectrum disorder (12.10); neurodevelopmental disorders (12.11); eating disorders (12.13); and trauma- and stressor-related disorders (12.15).
2. Listings 12.07, 12.08, 12.10, 12.11, and 12.13 have two paragraphs, designated A and B; your mental disorder must satisfy the requirements of both paragraphs A and B. Listings 12.02, 12.03, 12.04, 12.06, and 12.15 have three paragraphs, designated A, B, and C; your mental disorder must satisfy the requirements of both paragraphs A and B, or the requirements of both paragraphs A and C. Listing 12.05 has two paragraphs that are unique to that listing (see 12.00A3); your mental disorder must satisfy the requirements of either paragraph A or paragraph B.
a. Paragraph A of each listing (except 12.05) includes the medical criteria that must be present in your medical evidence.
b. Paragraph B of each listing (except 12.05) provides the functional criteria we assess, in conjunction with a rating scale (see 12.00E and 12.00F), to evaluate how your mental disorder limits your functioning. These criteria represent the areas of mental functioning a person uses in a work setting. They are: Understand, remember, or apply information; interact with others; concentrate, persist, or maintain pace; and adapt or manage oneself. We will determine the degree to which your medically determinable mental impairment affects the four areas of mental functioning and your ability to function independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis (see §§ 404.1520a(c)(2) and 416.920a(c)(2) of this chapter). To satisfy the paragraph B criteria, your mental disorder must result in “extreme” limitation of one, or “marked” limitation of two, of the four areas of mental functioning. (When we refer to “paragraph B criteria” or “area[s] of mental functioning” in the introductory text of this body system, we mean the criteria in paragraph B of every listing except 12.05.)
c. Paragraph C of listings 12.02, 12.03, 12.04, 12.06, and 12.15 provides the criteria we use to evaluate “serious and persistent mental disorders.” To satisfy the paragraph C criteria, your mental disorder must be “serious and persistent”; that is, there must be a medically documented history of the existence of the disorder over a period of at least 2 years, and evidence that satisfies the criteria in both C1 and C2 (see 12.00G). (When we refer to “paragraph C” or “the paragraph C criteria” in the introductory text of this body system, we mean the criteria in paragraph C of listings 12.02, 12.03, 12.04, 12.06, and 12.15.)
3. Listing 12.05 has two paragraphs, designated A and B, that apply to only intellectual disorder. Each paragraph requires that you have significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning; significant deficits in current adaptive functioning; and evidence that demonstrates or supports (is consistent with) the conclusion that your disorder began prior to age 22.
B.
Which mental disorders do we evaluate under each listing category?
1.
Neurocognitive disorders (12.02).
a. These disorders are characterized by a clinically significant decline in cognitive functioning. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, disturbances in memory, executive functioning (that is, higher-level cognitive processes; for example, regulating attention, planning, inhibiting responses, decision-making), visual-spatial functioning, language and speech, perception, insight, judgment, and insensitivity to social standards.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include major neurocognitive disorder; dementia of the Alzheimer type; vascular dementia; dementia due to a medical condition such as a metabolic disease (for example, late-onset Tay-Sachs disease), human immunodeficiency virus infection, vascular malformation, progressive brain tumor, neurological disease (for example, multiple sclerosis, Parkinsonian syndrome, Huntington disease), or traumatic brain injury; or substance-induced cognitive disorder associated with drugs of abuse, medications, or toxins. (We evaluate neurological disorders under that body system (see 11.00). We evaluate cognitive impairments that result from neurological disorders under 12.02 if they do not satisfy the requirements in 11.00 (see 11.00G).)
c. This category does not include the mental disorders that we evaluate under intellectual disorder (12.05), autism spectrum disorder (12.10), and neurodevelopmental disorders (12.11).
2.
Schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic disorders (12.03).
a. These disorders are characterized by delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, or grossly disorganized or catatonic behavior, causing a clinically significant decline in functioning. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, inability to initiate and persist in goal-directed activities, social withdrawal, flat or inappropriate affect, poverty of thought and speech, loss of interest or pleasure, disturbances of mood, odd beliefs and mannerisms, and paranoia.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, delusional disorder, and psychotic disorder due to another medical condition.
3.
Depressive, bipolar and related disorders (12.04).
a. These disorders are characterized by an irritable, depressed, elevated, or expansive mood, or by a loss of interest or pleasure in all or almost all activities, causing a clinically significant decline in functioning. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, feelings of hopelessness or guilt, suicidal ideation, a clinically significant change in body weight or appetite, sleep disturbances, an increase or decrease in energy, psychomotor abnormalities, disturbed concentration, pressured speech, grandiosity, reduced impulse control, sadness, euphoria, and social withdrawal.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include bipolar disorders (I or II), cyclothymic disorder, major depressive disorder, persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia), and bipolar or depressive disorder due to another medical condition.
4.
Intellectual disorder (12.05).
a. This disorder is characterized by significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning, significant deficits in current adaptive functioning, and manifestation of the disorder before age 22. Signs may include, but are not limited to, poor conceptual, social, or practical skills evident in your adaptive functioning.
b. The disorder that we evaluate in this category may be described in the evidence as intellectual disability, intellectual developmental disorder, or historically used terms such as “mental retardation.”
c. This category does not include the mental disorders that we evaluate under neurocognitive disorders (12.02), autism spectrum disorder (12.10), or neurodevelopmental disorders (12.11).
5.
Anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorders (12.06).
a. These disorders are characterized by excessive anxiety, worry, apprehension, and fear, or by avoidance of feelings, thoughts, activities, objects, places, or people. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, restlessness, difficulty concentrating, hyper-vigilance, muscle tension, sleep disturbance, fatigue, panic attacks, obsessions and compulsions, constant thoughts and fears about safety, and frequent physical complaints.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include social anxiety disorder, panic disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, agoraphobia, and obsessive-compulsive disorder.
c. This category does not include the mental disorders that we evaluate under trauma- and stressor-related disorders (12.15).
6.
Somatic symptom and related disorders (12.07).
a. These disorders are characterized by physical symptoms or deficits that are not intentionally produced or feigned, and that, following clinical investigation, cannot be fully explained by a general medical condition, another mental disorder, the direct effects of a substance, or a culturally sanctioned behavior or experience. These disorders may also be characterized by a preoccupation with having or acquiring a serious medical condition that has not been identified or diagnosed. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, pain and
other abnormalities of sensation, gastrointestinal symptoms, fatigue, a high level of anxiety about personal health status, abnormal motor movement, pseudoseizures, and pseudoneurological symptoms, such as blindness or deafness.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include somatic symptom disorder, illness anxiety disorder, and conversion disorder.
7.
Personality and impulse-control disorders (12.08).
a. These disorders are characterized by enduring, inflexible, maladaptive, and pervasive patterns of behavior. Onset typically occurs in adolescence or young adulthood. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, patterns of distrust, suspiciousness, and odd beliefs; social detachment, discomfort, or avoidance; hypersensitivity to negative evaluation; an excessive need to be taken care of; difficulty making independent decisions; a preoccupation with orderliness, perfectionism, and control; and inappropriate, intense, impulsive anger and behavioral expression grossly out of proportion to any external provocation or psychosocial stressors.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include paranoid, schizoid, schizotypal, borderline, avoidant, dependent, obsessive-compulsive personality disorders, and intermittent explosive disorder.
8.
Autism spectrum disorder (12.10).
a. These disorders are characterized by qualitative deficits in the development of reciprocal social interaction, verbal and nonverbal communication skills, and symbolic or imaginative activity; restricted repetitive and stereotyped patterns of behavior, interests, and activities; and stagnation of development or loss of acquired skills early in life. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, abnormalities and unevenness in the development of cognitive skills; unusual responses to sensory stimuli; and behavioral difficulties, including hyperactivity, short attention span, impulsivity, aggressiveness, or self-injurious actions.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include autism spectrum disorder with or without accompanying intellectual impairment, and autism spectrum disorder with or without accompanying language impairment.
c. This category does not include the mental disorders that we evaluate under neurocognitive disorders (12.02), intellectual disorder (12.05), and neurodevelopmental disorders (12.11).
9.
Neurodevelopmental disorders (12.11).
a. These disorders are characterized by onset during the developmental period, that is, during childhood or adolescence, although sometimes they are not diagnosed until adulthood. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, underlying abnormalities in cognitive processing (for example, deficits in learning and applying verbal or nonverbal information, visual perception, memory, or a combination of these); deficits in attention or impulse control; low frustration tolerance; excessive or poorly planned motor activity; difficulty with organizing (time, space, materials, or tasks); repeated accidental injury; and deficits in social skills. Symptoms and signs specific to tic disorders include sudden, rapid, recurrent, non-rhythmic, motor movement or vocalization.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include specific learning disorder, borderline intellectual functioning, and tic disorders (such as Tourette syndrome).
c. This category does not include the mental disorders that we evaluate under neurocognitive disorders (12.02), autism spectrum disorder (12.10), or personality and impulse-control disorders (12.08).
10.
Eating disorders (12.13).
a. These disorders are characterized by disturbances in eating behavior and preoccupation with, and excessive self-evaluation of, body weight and shape. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, restriction of energy consumption when compared with individual requirements; recurrent episodes of binge eating or behavior intended to prevent weight gain, such as self-induced vomiting, excessive exercise, or misuse of laxatives; mood disturbances, social withdrawal, or irritability; amenorrhea; dental problems; abnormal laboratory findings; and cardiac abnormalities.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, binge-eating disorder, and avoidant/restrictive food disorder.
11.
Trauma- and stressor-related disorders (12.15).
a. These disorders are characterized by experiencing or witnessing a traumatic or stressful event, or learning of a traumatic event occurring to a close family member or close friend, and the psychological aftermath of clinically significant effects on functioning. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, distressing memories, dreams, and flashbacks related to the trauma or stressor; avoidant behavior; diminished interest or participation in significant activities; persistent negative emotional states (for example, fear, anger) or persistent inability to experience positive emotions (for example, satisfaction, affection); anxiety; irritability; aggression; exaggerated startle response; difficulty concentrating; and sleep disturbance.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include posttraumatic stress disorder and other specified trauma- and
stressor-related disorders (such as adjustment-like disorders with prolonged duration without prolonged duration of stressor).
c. This category does not include the mental disorders that we evaluate under anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorders (12.06), and cognitive impairments that result from neurological disorders, such as a traumatic brain injury, which we evaluate under neurocognitive disorders (12.02).
C.
What evidence do we need to evaluate your mental disorder?
1.
General.
We need objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source to establish that you have a medically determinable mental disorder. We also need evidence to assess the severity of your mental disorder and its effects on your ability to function in a work setting. We will determine the extent and kinds of evidence we need from medical and nonmedical sources based on the individual facts about your disorder. For additional evidence requirements for intellectual disorder (12.05), see 12.00H. For our basic rules on evidence, see §§ 404.1512, 404.1513, 404.1520b, 416.912, 416.913, and 416.920b of this chapter. For our rules on evaluating medical opinions, see §§ 404.1520c, 404.1527, 416.920c, and 416.927 of this chapter. For our rules on evidence about your symptoms, see §§ 404.1529 and 416.929 of this chapter.
2.
Evidence from medical sources.
We will consider all relevant medical evidence about your disorder from your physician, psychologist, and other medical sources, which include health care providers such as physician assistants, psychiatric nurse practitioners, licensed clinical social workers, and clinical mental health counselors. Evidence from your medical sources may include:
a. Your reported symptoms.
b. Your medical, psychiatric, and psychological history.
c. The results of physical or mental status examinations, structured clinical interviews, psychiatric or psychological rating scales, measures of adaptive functioning, or other clinical findings.
d. Psychological testing, imaging results, or other laboratory findings.
e. Your diagnosis.
f. The type, dosage, and beneficial effects of medications you take.
g. The type, frequency, duration, and beneficial effects of therapy you receive.
h. Side effects of medication or other treatment that limit your ability to function.
i. Your clinical course, including changes in your medication, therapy, or other treatment, and the time required for therapeutic effectiveness.
j. Observations and descriptions of how you function during examinations or therapy.
k. Information about sensory, motor, or speech abnormalities, or about your cultural background (for example, language or customs) that may affect an evaluation of your mental disorder.
l. The expected duration of your symptoms and signs and their effects on your functioning, both currently and in the future.
3.
Evidence from you and people who know you.
We will consider all relevant evidence about your mental disorder and your daily functioning that we receive from you and from people who know you. We will ask about your symptoms, your daily functioning, and your medical treatment. We will ask for information from third parties who can tell us about your mental disorder, but you must give us permission to do so. This evidence may include information from your family, caregivers, friends, neighbors, clergy, case managers, social workers, shelter staff, or other community support and outreach workers. We will consider whether your statements and the statements from third parties are consistent with the medical and other evidence we have.
4.
Evidence from school, vocational training, work, and work-related programs.
a.
School.
You may have recently attended or may still be attending school, and you may have received or may still be receiving special education services. If so, we will try to obtain information from your school sources when we need it to assess how your mental disorder affects your ability to function. Examples of this information include your Individualized Education Programs (IEPs), your Section 504 plans, comprehensive evaluation reports, school-related therapy progress notes, information from your teachers about how you function in a classroom setting, and information about any special services or accommodations you receive at school.
b.
Vocational training, work, and work-related programs.
You may have recently participated in or may still be participating in vocational training, work-related programs, or work activity. If so, we will try to obtain information from your training program or your employer when we need it to assess how your mental disorder affects your ability to function. Examples of this information include training or work evaluations, modifications to your work duties or work schedule, and any special supports or accommodations you have required or now require in order to work. If you have worked or are working through a community mental health program, sheltered or supported work program, rehabilitation program, or transitional employment program, we will consider the type and degree of support you have received or are receiving in order to work (see 12.00D).
5.
Need for longitudinal evidence.
a.
General.
Longitudinal medical evidence can help us learn how you function over time, and help us evaluate any variations in
the level of your functioning. We will request longitudinal evidence of your mental disorder when your medical providers have records concerning you and your mental disorder over a period of months or perhaps years (see §§ 404.1512(d) and 416.912(d) of this chapter).
b.
Non-medical sources of longitudinal evidence.
Certain situations, such as chronic homelessness, may make it difficult for you to provide longitudinal medical evidence. If you have a severe mental disorder, you will probably have evidence of its effects on your functioning over time, even if you have not had an ongoing relationship with the medical community or are not currently receiving treatment. For example, family members, friends, neighbors, former employers, social workers, case managers, community support staff, outreach workers, or government agencies may be familiar with your mental health history. We will ask for information from third parties who can tell us about your mental disorder, but you must give us permission to do so.
c.
Absence of longitudinal evidence.
In the absence of longitudinal evidence, we will use current objective medical evidence and all other relevant evidence available to us in your case record to evaluate your mental disorder. If we purchase a consultative examination to document your disorder, the record will include the results of that examination (see §§ 404.1514 and 416.914 of this chapter). We will take into consideration your medical history, symptoms, clinical and laboratory findings, and medical source opinions. If you do not have longitudinal evidence, the current evidence alone may not be sufficient or appropriate to show that you have a disorder that meets the criteria of one of the mental disorders listings. In that case, we will follow the rules in 12.00J.
6.
Evidence of functioning in unfamiliar situations or supportive situations.
a.
Unfamiliar situations.
We recognize that evidence about your functioning in unfamiliar situations does not necessarily show how you would function on a sustained basis in a work setting. In one-time, time-limited, or other unfamiliar situations, you may function differently than you do in familiar situations. In unfamiliar situations, you may appear more, or less, limited than you do on a daily basis and over time.
b.
Supportive situations.
Your ability to complete tasks in settings that are highly structured, or that are less demanding or more supportive than typical work settings does not necessarily demonstrate your ability to complete tasks in the context of regular employment during a normal workday or work week.
c.
Our assessment.
We must assess your ability to complete tasks by evaluating all the evidence, such as reports about your functioning from you and third parties who are familiar with you, with an emphasis on how independently, appropriately, and effectively you are able to complete tasks on a sustained basis.
D.
How do we consider psychosocial supports, structured settings, living arrangements, and treatment?
1.
General.
Psychosocial supports, structured settings, and living arrangements, including assistance from your family or others, may help you by reducing the demands made on you. In addition, treatment you receive may reduce your symptoms and signs and possibly improve your functioning, or may have side effects that limit your functioning. Therefore, when we evaluate the effects of your mental disorder and rate the limitation of your areas of mental functioning, we will consider the kind and extent of supports you receive, the characteristics of any structured setting in which you spend your time, and the effects of any treatment. This evidence may come from reports about your functioning from you or third parties who are familiar with you, and other third-party statements or information. Following are some examples of the supports you may receive:
a. You receive help from family members or other people who monitor your daily activities and help you to function. For example, family members administer your medications, remind you to eat, shop for you and pay your bills, or change their work hours so you are never home alone.
b. You participate in a special education or vocational training program, or a psychosocial rehabilitation day treatment or community support program, where you receive training in daily living and entry-level work skills.
c. You participate in a sheltered, supported, or transitional work program, or in a competitive employment setting with the help of a job coach or supervisor.
d. You receive comprehensive “24/7 wrap-around” mental health services while living in a group home or transitional housing, while participating in a semi-independent living program, or while living in individual housing (for example, your own home or apartment).
e. You live in a hospital or other institution with 24-hour care.
f. You receive assistance from a crisis response team, social workers, or community mental health workers who help you meet your physical needs, and who may also represent you in dealings with government or community social services.
g. You live alone and do not receive any psychosocial support(s); however, you have created a highly structured environment by eliminating all but minimally necessary contact with the world outside your living space.
2.
How we consider different levels of support and structure in psychosocial rehabilitation programs.
a. Psychosocial rehabilitation programs are based on your specific needs. Therefore, we cannot make any assumptions about your mental disorder based solely on the fact that you are associated with such a program. We must know the details of the program(s) in which you are involved and the pattern(s) of your involvement over time.
b. The kinds and levels of supports and structures in psychosocial rehabilitation programs typically occur on a scale of “most restrictive” to “least restrictive.” Participation in a psychosocial rehabilitation program at the most restrictive level would suggest greater limitation of your areas of mental functioning than would participation at a less restrictive level. The length of time you spend at different levels in a program also provides information about your functioning. For example, you could begin participation at the most restrictive crisis intervention level but gradually improve to the point of readiness for a lesser level of support and structure and possibly some form of employment.
3.
How we consider the help or support you receive.
a. We will consider the complete picture of your daily functioning, including the kinds, extent, and frequency of help and support you receive, when we evaluate your mental disorder and determine whether you are able to use the four areas of mental functioning in a work setting. The fact that you have done, or currently do, some routine activities without help or support does not necessarily mean that you do not have a mental disorder or that you are not disabled. For example, you may be able to take care of your personal needs, cook, shop, pay your bills, live by yourself, and drive a car. You may demonstrate both strengths and deficits in your daily functioning.
b. You may receive various kinds of help and support from others that enable you to do many things that, because of your mental disorder, you might not be able to do independently. Your daily functioning may depend on the special contexts in which you function. For example, you may spend your time among only familiar people or surroundings, in a simple and steady routine or an unchanging environment, or in a highly structured setting. However, this does not necessarily show how you would function in a work setting on a sustained basis, throughout a normal workday and workweek. (See 12.00H for further discussion of these issues regarding significant deficits in adaptive functioning for the purpose of 12.05.)
4.
How we consider treatment.
We will consider the effect of any treatment on your functioning when we evaluate your mental disorder. Treatment may include medication(s), psychotherapy, or other forms of intervention, which you receive in a doctor's office, during a hospitalization, or in a day program at a hospital or outpatient treatment program. With treatment, you may not only have your symptoms and signs reduced, but may also be able to function in a work setting. However, treatment may not resolve all of the limitations that result from your mental disorder, and the medications you take or other treatment you receive for your disorder may cause side effects that limit your mental or physical functioning. For example, you may experience drowsiness, blunted affect, memory loss, or abnormal involuntary movements.
E.
What are the paragraph B criteria?
1.
Understand, remember, or apply information (paragraph B1).
This area of mental functioning refers to the abilities to learn, recall, and use information to perform work activities. Examples include: Understanding and learning terms, instructions, procedures; following one- or two-step oral instructions to carry out a task; describing work activity to someone else; asking and answering questions and providing explanations; recognizing a mistake and correcting it; identifying and solving problems; sequencing multi-step activities; and using reason and judgment to make work-related decisions. These examples illustrate the nature of this area of mental functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples.
2.
Interact with others (paragraph B2).
This area of mental functioning refers to the abilities to relate to and work with supervisors, co-workers, and the public. Examples include: cooperating with others; asking for help when needed; handling conflicts with others; stating own point of view; initiating or sustaining conversation; understanding and responding to social cues (physical, verbal, emotional); responding to requests, suggestions, criticism, correction, and challenges; and keeping social interactions free of excessive irritability, sensitivity, argumentativeness, or suspiciousness. These examples illustrate the nature of this area of mental functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples.
3.
Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (paragraph B3).
This area of mental functioning refers to the abilities to focus attention on work activities and stay on task at a sustained rate. Examples include: Initiating and performing a task that you understand and know how to do; working at an appropriate and consistent pace; completing tasks in a timely manner; ignoring or avoiding distractions while working; changing activities or work settings without being disruptive; working close to or with others without interrupting or distracting them; sustaining an ordinary routine and regular attendance at work; and working a full day without needing more than the allotted
number or length of rest periods during the day. These examples illustrate the nature of this area of mental functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples.
4.
Adapt or manage oneself (paragraph B4).
This area of mental functioning refers to the abilities to regulate emotions, control behavior, and maintain well-being in a work setting. Examples include: Responding to demands; adapting to changes; managing your psychologically based symptoms; distinguishing between acceptable and unacceptable work performance; setting realistic goals; making plans for yourself independently of others; maintaining personal hygiene and attire appropriate to a work setting; and being aware of normal hazards and taking appropriate precautions. These examples illustrate the nature of this area of mental functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples.
F.
How do we use the paragraph B criteria to evaluate your mental disorder?
1.
General.
We use the paragraph B criteria, in conjunction with a rating scale (see 12.00F2), to rate the degree of your limitations. We consider only the limitations that result from your mental disorder(s). We will determine whether you are able to use each of the paragraph B areas of mental functioning in a work setting. We will consider, for example, the kind, degree, and frequency of difficulty you would have; whether you could function without extra help, structure, or supervision; and whether you would require special conditions with regard to activities or other people (see 12.00D).
2.
The five-point rating scale.
We evaluate the effects of your mental disorder on each of the four areas of mental functioning based on a five-point rating scale consisting of none, mild, moderate, marked, and extreme limitation. To satisfy the paragraph B criteria, your mental disorder must result in extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, paragraph B areas of mental functioning. Under these listings, the five rating points are defined as follows:
a.
No limitation (or none).
You are able to function in this area independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis.
b.
Mild limitation.
Your functioning in this area independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis is slightly limited.
c.
Moderate limitation.
Your functioning in this area independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis is fair.
d.
Marked limitation.
Your functioning in this area independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis is seriously limited.
e.
Extreme limitation.
You are not able to function in this area independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis.
3.
Rating the limitations of your areas of mental functioning.
a.
General.
We use all of the relevant medical and non-medical evidence in your case record to evaluate your mental disorder: The symptoms and signs of your disorder, the reported limitations in your activities, and any help and support you receive that is necessary for you to function. The medical evidence may include descriptors regarding the diagnostic stage or level of your disorder, such as “mild” or “moderate.” Clinicians may use these terms to characterize your medical condition. However, these terms will not always be the same as the degree of your limitation in a paragraph B area of mental functioning.
b.
Areas of mental functioning in daily activities.
You use the same four areas of mental functioning in daily activities at home and in the community that you would use to function at work. With respect to a particular task or activity, you may have trouble using one or more of the areas. For example, you may have difficulty understanding and remembering what to do; or concentrating and staying on task long enough to do it; or engaging in the task or activity with other people; or trying to do the task without becoming frustrated and losing self-control. Information about your daily functioning can help us understand whether your mental disorder limits one or more of these areas; and, if so, whether it also affects your ability to function in a work setting.
c.
Areas of mental functioning in work settings.
If you have difficulty using an area of mental functioning from day-to-day at home or in your community, you may also have difficulty using that area to function in a work setting. On the other hand, if you are able to use an area of mental functioning at home or in your community, we will not necessarily assume that you would also be able to use that area to function in a work setting where the demands and stressors differ from those at home. We will consider all evidence about your mental disorder and daily functioning before we reach a conclusion about your ability to work.
d.
Overall effect of limitations.
Limitation of an area of mental functioning reflects the overall degree to which your mental disorder interferes with that area. The degree of limitation is how we document our assessment of your limitation when using the area of mental functioning independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis. It does not necessarily reflect a specific type or number of activities, including activities of daily living, that you have difficulty doing. In addition, no single piece of information (including test results) can establish the degree of limitation of an area of mental functioning.
e.
Effects of support, supervision, structure on functioning.
The degree of limitation of an area of mental functioning also reflects the kind and extent of supports or supervision you receive and the characteristics of any structured setting where you spend your time, which enable you to function. The more extensive the support you need from others or the more structured the setting you need in order to function, the more limited we will find you to be (see 12.00D).
f.
Specific instructions for paragraphs B1, B3, and B4.
For paragraphs B1, B3, and B4, the greatest degree of limitation of any part of the area of mental functioning directs the rating of limitation of that whole area of mental functioning.
(i) To do a work-related task, you must be able to understand
and
remember
and
apply information required by the task. Similarly, you must be able to concentrate
and
persist
and
maintain pace in order to complete the task, and adapt
and
manage yourself in the workplace. Limitation in any one of these parts (understand
or
remember
or
apply; concentrate
or
persist
or
maintain pace; adapt
or
manage oneself) may prevent you from completing a work-related task.
(ii) We will document the rating of limitation of the whole area of mental functioning, not each individual part. We will not add ratings of the parts together. For example, with respect to paragraph B3, if you have marked limitation in maintaining pace, and mild or moderate limitations in concentrating and persisting, we will find that you have marked limitation in the whole paragraph B3 area of mental functioning.
(iii) Marked limitation in more than one part of the same paragraph B area of mental functioning does not satisfy the requirement to have marked limitation in two paragraph B areas of mental functioning.
4.
How we evaluate mental disorders involving exacerbations and remissions.
a. When we evaluate the effects of your mental disorder, we will consider how often you have exacerbations and remissions, how long they last, what causes your mental disorder to worsen or improve, and any other relevant information. We will assess any limitation of the affected paragraph B area(s) of mental functioning using the rating scale for the paragraph B criteria. We will consider whether you can use the area of mental functioning on a regular and continuing basis (8 hours a day, 5 days a week, or an equivalent work schedule). We will not find that you are able to work solely because you have a period(s) of improvement (remission), or that you are disabled solely because you have a period of worsening (exacerbation), of your mental disorder.
b. If you have a mental disorder involving exacerbations and remissions, you may be able to use the four areas of mental functioning to work for a few weeks or months. Recurrence or worsening of symptoms and signs, however, can interfere enough to render you unable to sustain the work.
G.
What are the paragraph C criteria, and how do we use them to evaluate your mental disorder?
1.
General.
The paragraph C criteria are an alternative to the paragraph B criteria under listings 12.02, 12.03, 12.04, 12.06, and 12.15. We use the paragraph C criteria to evaluate mental disorders that are “serious and persistent.” In the paragraph C criteria, we recognize that mental health interventions may control the more obvious symptoms and signs of your mental disorder.
2.
Paragraph C criteria.
a. We find a mental disorder to be “serious and persistent” when there is a medically documented history of the existence of the mental disorder in the listing category over a period of at least 2 years, and evidence shows that your disorder satisfies both C1 and C2.
b. The criterion in C1 is satisfied when the evidence shows that you rely, on an ongoing basis, upon medical treatment, mental health therapy, psychosocial support(s), or a highly structured setting(s), to diminish the symptoms and signs of your mental disorder (see 12.00D). We consider that you receive ongoing medical treatment when the medical evidence establishes that you obtain medical treatment with a frequency consistent with accepted medical practice for the type of treatment or evaluation required for your medical condition. We will consider periods of inconsistent treatment or lack of compliance with treatment that may result from your mental disorder. If the evidence indicates that the inconsistent treatment or lack of compliance is a feature of your mental disorder, and it has led to an exacerbation of your symptoms and signs, we will not use it as evidence to support a finding that you have not received ongoing medical treatment as required by this paragraph.
c. The criterion in C2 is satisfied when the evidence shows that, despite your diminished symptoms and signs, you have achieved only marginal adjustment. “Marginal adjustment” means that your adaptation to the requirements of daily life is fragile; that is, you have minimal capacity to adapt to changes in your environment or to demands that are not already part of your daily life. We will consider that you have achieved only marginal adjustment when the evidence shows that changes or increased demands have led to exacerbation of your symptoms and signs and to deterioration in your functioning; for example, you have become unable to function outside of your home or a more restrictive setting, without substantial psychosocial supports (see 12.00D). Such deterioration may have necessitated a significant change in medication or other treatment. Similarly, because of the nature of
your mental disorder, evidence may document episodes of deterioration that have required you to be hospitalized or absent from work, making it difficult for you to sustain work activity over time.
H.
How do we document and evaluate intellectual disorder under 12.05?
1.
General.
Listing 12.05 is based on the three elements that characterize intellectual disorder: Significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning; significant deficits in current adaptive functioning; and the disorder manifested before age 22.
2.
Establishing significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning.
a.
Definition.
Intellectual functioning refers to the general mental capacity to learn, reason, plan, solve problems, and perform other cognitive functions. Under 12.05A, we identify significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning by the cognitive inability to function at a level required to participate in standardized intelligence testing. Our findings under 12.05A are based on evidence from an acceptable medical source. Under 12.05B, we identify significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning by an IQ score(s) on an individually administered standardized test of general intelligence that meets program requirements and has a mean of 100 and a standard deviation of 15. A qualified specialist (see 12.00H2c) must administer the standardized intelligence testing.
b.
Psychometric standards.
We will find standardized intelligence test results usable for the purposes of 12.05B1 when the measure employed meets contemporary psychometric standards for validity, reliability, normative data, and scope of measurement; and a qualified specialist has individually administered the test according to all pre-requisite testing conditions.
c.
Qualified specialist.
A “qualified specialist” is currently licensed or certified at the independent level of practice in the State where the test was performed, and has the training and experience to administer, score, and interpret intelligence tests. If a psychological assistant or paraprofessional administered the test, a supervisory qualified specialist must interpret the test findings and co-sign the examination report.
d.
Responsibility for conclusions based on testing.
We generally presume that your obtained IQ score(s) is an accurate reflection of your general intellectual functioning, unless evidence in the record suggests otherwise. Examples of this evidence include: a statement from the test administrator indicating that your obtained score is not an accurate reflection of your general intellectual functioning, prior or internally inconsistent IQ scores, or information about your daily functioning. Only qualified specialists, Federal and State agency medical and psychological consultants, and other contracted medical and psychological experts may conclude that your obtained IQ score(s) is not an accurate reflection of your general intellectual functioning. This conclusion must be well supported by appropriate clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques and must be based on relevant evidence in the case record, such as:
(i) The data obtained in testing;
(ii) Your developmental history, including when your signs and symptoms began;
(iii) Information about how you function on a daily basis in a variety of settings; and
(iv) Clinical observations made during the testing period, such as your ability to sustain attention, concentration, and effort; to relate appropriately to the examiner; and to perform tasks independently without prompts or reminders.
3.
Establishing significant deficits in adaptive functioning.
a.
Definition.
Adaptive functioning refers to how you learn and use conceptual, social, and practical skills in dealing with common life demands. It is your typical functioning at home and in the community, alone or among others. Under 12.05A, we identify significant deficits in adaptive functioning based on your dependence on others to care for your personal needs, such as eating and bathing. We will base our conclusions about your adaptive functioning on evidence from a variety of sources (see 12.00H3b) and not on your statements alone. Under 12.05B2, we identify significant deficits in adaptive functioning based on whether there is extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the paragraph B criteria (see 12.00E; 12.00F).
b.
Evidence.
Evidence about your adaptive functioning may come from:
(i) Medical sources, including their clinical observations;
(ii) Standardized tests of adaptive functioning (see 12.00H3c);
(iii) Third party information, such as a report of your functioning from a family member or friend;
(iv) School records, if you were in school recently;
(v) Reports from employers or supervisors; and
(vi) Your own statements about how you handle all of your daily activities.
c.
Standardized tests of adaptive functioning.
We do not require the results of an individually administered standardized test of adaptive functioning. If your case record includes these test results, we will consider the results along with all other relevant evidence; however, we will use the guidelines in 12.00E and F to evaluate and determine the degree of your deficits in adaptive functioning, as required under 12.05B2.
d.
How we consider common everyday activities.
(i) The fact that you engage in common everyday activities, such as caring for your
personal needs, preparing simple meals, or driving a car, will not always mean that you do not have deficits in adaptive functioning as required by 12.05B2. You may demonstrate both strengths and deficits in your adaptive functioning. However, a lack of deficits in one area does not negate the presence of deficits in another area. When we assess your adaptive functioning, we will consider all of your activities and your performance of them.
(ii) Our conclusions about your adaptive functioning rest on whether you do your daily activities independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis. If you receive help in performing your activities, we need to know the kind, extent, and frequency of help you receive in order to perform them. We will not assume that your ability to do some common everyday activities, or to do some things without help or support, demonstrates that your mental disorder does not meet the requirements of 12.05B2. (See 12.00D regarding the factors we consider when we evaluate your functioning, including how we consider any help or support you receive.)
e.
How we consider work activity.
The fact that you have engaged in work activity, or that you work intermittently or steadily in a job commensurate with your abilities, will not always mean that you do not have deficits in adaptive functioning as required by 12.05B2. When you have engaged in work activity, we need complete information about the work, and about your functioning in the work activity and work setting, before we reach any conclusions about your adaptive functioning. We will consider all factors involved in your work history before concluding whether your impairment satisfies the criteria for intellectual disorder under 12.05B. We will consider your prior and current work history, if any, and various other factors influencing how you function. For example, we consider whether the work was in a supported setting, whether you required more supervision than other employees, how your job duties compared to others in the same job, how much time it took you to learn the job duties, and the reason the work ended, if applicable.
4.
Establishing that the disorder began before age 22.
We require evidence that demonstrates or supports (is consistent with) the conclusion that your mental disorder began prior to age 22. We do not require evidence that your impairment met all of the requirements of 12.05A or 12.05B prior to age 22. Also, we do not require you to have met our statutory definition of disability prior to age 22. When we do not have evidence that was recorded before you attained age 22, we need evidence about your current intellectual and adaptive functioning and the history of your disorder that supports the conclusion that the disorder began before you attained age 22. Examples of evidence that can demonstrate or support this conclusion include:
a. Tests of intelligence or adaptive functioning;
b. School records indicating a history of special education services based on your intellectual functioning;
c. An Individualized Education Program (IEP), including your transition plan;
d. Reports of your academic performance and functioning at school;
e. Medical treatment records;
f. Interviews or reports from employers;
g. Statements from a supervisor in a group home or a sheltered workshop; and
h. Statements from people who have known you and can tell us about your functioning in the past and currently.
I.
How do we evaluate substance use disorders?
If we find that you are disabled and there is medical evidence in your case record establishing that you have a substance use disorder, we will determine whether your substance use disorder is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (see §§ 404.1535 and 416.935 of this chapter).
J.
How do we evaluate mental disorders that do not meet one of the mental disorders listings?
1. These listings include only examples of mental disorders that we consider serious enough to prevent you from doing any gainful activity. If your severe mental disorder does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we will consider whether you have an impairment(s) that meets the criteria of a listing in another body system. You may have another impairment(s) that is secondary to your mental disorder. For example, if you have an eating disorder and develop a cardiovascular impairment because of it, we will evaluate your cardiovascular impairment under the listings for the cardiovascular body system.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing (see §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter).
3. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, we will assess your residual functional capacity for engaging in substantial gainful activity (see §§ 404.1545 and 416.945 of this chapter). When we assess your residual functional capacity, we consider all of your impairment-related mental and physical limitations. For example, the side effects of some medications may reduce your general alertness, concentration, or physical stamina, affecting your residual functional capacity for non-exertional or exertional work activities. Once we have determined your residual functional capacity, we proceed to the fourth, and if necessary, the fifth steps of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920 of this chapter. We use the rules in §§ 404.1594 and 416.994
of this chapter, as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 12.01 Category of Impairments, Mental Disorders
12.02
Neurocognitive disorders
(see 12.00B1), satisfied by A and B, or A and C:
A. Medical documentation of a significant cognitive decline from a prior level of functioning in
one
or more of the cognitive areas:
1. Complex attention;
2. Executive function;
3. Learning and memory;
4. Language;
5. Perceptual-motor; or
6. Social cognition.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 12.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 12.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 12.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 12.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 12.00E4).

# OR
C. Your mental disorder in this listing category is “serious and persistent;” that is, you have a medically documented history of the existence of the disorder over a period of at least 2 years, and there is evidence of both:
1. Medical treatment, mental health therapy, psychosocial support(s), or a highly structured setting(s) that is ongoing and that diminishes the symptoms and signs of your mental disorder (see 12.00G2b);
and
2. Marginal adjustment, that is, you have minimal capacity to adapt to changes in your environment or to demands that are not already part of your daily life (see 12.00G2c).
12.03
Schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic disorders
(see 12.00B2), satisfied by A and B, or A and C:
A. Medical documentation of
one
or more of the following:
1. Delusions or hallucinations;
2. Disorganized thinking (speech); or
3. Grossly disorganized behavior or catatonia.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 12.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 12.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 12.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 12.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 12.00E4).

# OR
C. Your mental disorder in this listing category is “serious and persistent;” that is, you have a medically documented history of the existence of the disorder over a period of at least 2 years, and there is evidence of both:
1. Medical treatment, mental health therapy, psychosocial support(s), or a highly structured setting(s) that is ongoing and that diminishes the symptoms and signs of your mental disorder (see 12.00G2b);
and
2. Marginal adjustment, that is, you have minimal capacity to adapt to changes in your environment or to demands that are not already part of your daily life (see 12.00G2c).
12.04
Depressive, bipolar and related disorders
(see 12.00B3), satisfied by A and B, or A and C:
A. Medical documentation of the requirements of paragraph 1 or 2:
1. Depressive disorder, characterized by
five
or more of the following:
a. Depressed mood;
b. Diminished interest in almost all activities;
c. Appetite disturbance with change in weight;
d. Sleep disturbance;
e. Observable psychomotor agitation or retardation;
f. Decreased energy;
g. Feelings of guilt or worthlessness;
h. Difficulty concentrating or thinking; or
i. Thoughts of death or suicide.
2. Bipolar disorder, characterized by
three
or more of the following:
a. Pressured speech;
b. Flight of ideas;
c. Inflated self-esteem;
d. Decreased need for sleep;
e. Distractibility;
f. Involvement in activities that have a high probability of painful consequences that are not recognized; or
g. Increase in goal-directed activity or psychomotor agitation.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 12.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 12.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 12.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 12.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 12.00E4).

# OR
C. Your mental disorder in this listing category is “serious and persistent;” that is, you have a medically documented history of the existence of the disorder over a period of
at least 2 years, and there is evidence of both:
1. Medical treatment, mental health therapy, psychosocial support(s), or a highly structured setting(s) that is ongoing and that diminishes the symptoms and signs of your mental disorder (see 12.00G2b);
and
2. Marginal adjustment, that is, you have minimal capacity to adapt to changes in your environment or to demands that are not already part of your daily life (see 12.00G2c).
12.05
Intellectual disorder
(see 12.00B4), satisfied by A or B:
A. Satisfied by 1, 2, and 3 (see 12.00H):
1. Significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning evident in your cognitive inability to function at a level required to participate in standardized testing of intellectual functioning; and
2. Significant deficits in adaptive functioning currently manifested by your dependence upon others for personal needs (for example, toileting, eating, dressing, or bathing); and
3. The evidence about your current intellectual and adaptive functioning and about the history of your disorder demonstrates or supports the conclusion that the disorder began prior to your attainment of age 22.

# OR
B. Satisfied by 1, 2, and 3 (see 12.00H):
1. Significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning evidenced by a or b:
a. A full scale (or comparable) IQ score of 70 or below on an individually administered standardized test of general intelligence; or
b. A full scale (or comparable) IQ score of 71-75 accompanied by a verbal or performance IQ score (or comparable part score) of 70 or below on an individually administered standardized test of general intelligence; and
2. Significant deficits in adaptive functioning currently manifested by extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning:
a. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 12.00E1); or
b. Interact with others (see 12.00E2); or
c. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 12.00E3); or
d. Adapt or manage oneself (see 12.00E4); and
3. The evidence about your current intellectual and adaptive functioning and about the history of your disorder demonstrates or supports the conclusion that the disorder began prior to your attainment of age 22.
12.06
Anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorders
(see 12.00B5), satisfied by A and B, or A and C:
A. Medical documentation of the requirements of paragraph 1, 2, or 3:
1. Anxiety disorder, characterized by
three
or more of the following;
a. Restlessness;
b. Easily fatigued;
c. Difficulty concentrating;
d. Irritability;
e. Muscle tension; or
f. Sleep disturbance.
2. Panic disorder or agoraphobia, characterized by
one
or both:
a. Panic attacks followed by a persistent concern or worry about additional panic attacks or their consequences; or
b. Disproportionate fear or anxiety about at least two different situations (for example, using public transportation, being in a crowd, being in a line, being outside of your home, being in open spaces).
3. Obsessive-compulsive disorder, characterized by
one
or both:
a. Involuntary, time-consuming preoccupation with intrusive, unwanted thoughts; or
b. Repetitive behaviors aimed at reducing anxiety.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 12.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 12.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 12.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 12.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 12.00E4).

# OR
C. Your mental disorder in this listing category is “serious and persistent;” that is, you have a medically documented history of the existence of the disorder over a period of at least 2 years, and there is evidence of both:
1. Medical treatment, mental health therapy, psychosocial support(s), or a highly structured setting(s) that is ongoing and that diminishes the symptoms and signs of your mental disorder (see 12.00G2b);
and
2. Marginal adjustment, that is, you have minimal capacity to adapt to changes in your environment or to demands that are not already part of your daily life (see 12.00G2c).
12.07
Somatic symptom and related disorders
(see 12.00B6), satisfied by A and B:
A. Medical documentation of
one
or more of the following:
1. Symptoms of altered voluntary motor or sensory function that are not better explained by another medical or mental disorder;
2. One or more somatic symptoms that are distressing, with excessive thoughts, feelings, or behaviors related to the symptoms; or
3. Preoccupation with having or acquiring a serious illness without significant symptoms present.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 12.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 12.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 12.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 12.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 12.00E4).
12.08
Personality and impulse-control disorders
(see 12.00B7), satisfied by A and B:
A. Medical documentation of a pervasive pattern of
one
or more of the following:
1. Distrust and suspiciousness of others;
2. Detachment from social relationships;
3. Disregard for and violation of the rights of others;
4. Instability of interpersonal relationships;
5. Excessive emotionality and attention seeking;
6. Feelings of inadequacy;
7. Excessive need to be taken care of;
8. Preoccupation with perfectionism and orderliness; or
9. Recurrent, impulsive, aggressive behavioral outbursts.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 12.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 12.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 12.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 12.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 12.00E4).
12.09 [Reserved]
12.10
Autism spectrum disorder
(see 12.00B8), satisfied by A and B:
A. Medical documentation of
both
of the following:
1. Qualitative deficits in verbal communication, nonverbal communication, and social interaction; and
2. Significantly restricted, repetitive patterns of behavior, interests, or activities.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 12.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 12.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 12.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 12.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 12.00E4).
12.11
Neurodevelopmental disorders
(see 12.00B9), satisfied by A and B:
A. Medical documentation of the requirements of paragraph 1, 2, or 3:
1.
One
or both of the following:
a. Frequent distractibility, difficulty sustaining attention, and difficulty organizing tasks; or
b. Hyperactive and impulsive behavior (for example, difficulty remaining seated, talking excessively, difficulty waiting, appearing restless, or behaving as if being “driven by a motor”).
2. Significant difficulties learning and using academic skills; or
3. Recurrent motor movement or vocalization.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 12.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 12.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 12.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 12.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 12.00E4).
12.12 [Reserved]
12.13
Eating disorders
(see 12.00B10), satisfied by A and B:
A. Medical documentation of a persistent alteration in eating or eating-related behavior that results in a change in consumption or absorption of food and that significantly impairs physical or psychological health.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 12.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 12.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 12.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 12.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 12.00E4).
12.15
Trauma- and stressor-related disorders
(see 12.00B11), satisfied by A and B, or A and C:
A. Medical documentation of
all
of the following:
1. Exposure to actual or threatened death, serious injury, or violence;
2. Subsequent involuntary re-experiencing of the traumatic event (for example, intrusive memories, dreams, or flashbacks);
3. Avoidance of external reminders of the event;
4. Disturbance in mood and behavior; and
5. Increases in arousal and reactivity (for example, exaggerated startle response, sleep disturbance).

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 12.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 12.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 12.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 12.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 12.00E4).

# OR
C. Your mental disorder in this listing category is “serious and persistent;” that is, you have a medically documented history of the existence of the disorder over a period of at least 2 years, and there is evidence of both:
1. Medical treatment, mental health therapy, psychosocial support(s), or a highly structured setting(s) that is ongoing and that diminishes the symptoms and signs of your mental disorder (see 12.00G2b);
and
2. Marginal adjustment, that is, you have minimal capacity to adapt to changes in your environment or to demands that are not already part of your daily life (see 12.00G2c).

# 13.00 Cancer (Malignant Neoplastic Diseases)
A.
What impairments do these listings cover?
We use these listings to evaluate all cancers (malignant neoplastic diseases) except certain cancers associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. We use the criteria in 14.11B to evaluate primary central nervous system lymphoma, 14.11C to evaluate primary effusion lymphoma, and 14.11E to evaluate pulmonary Kaposi sarcoma if you also have HIV infection. We evaluate all other cancers associated with HIV infection, for example, Hodgkin lymphoma or non-pulmonary Kaposi sarcoma, under this body system or under 14.11F-I in the immune system disorders body system.
B.
What do we consider when we evaluate cancer under these listings?
We will consider factors including:
1. Origin of the cancer.
2. Extent of involvement.
3. Duration, frequency, and response to anticancer therapy.
4. Effects of any post-therapeutic residuals.
C.
How do we apply these listings?
We apply the criteria in a specific listing to a cancer originating from that specific site.
D.
What evidence do we need?
1. We need medical evidence that specifies the type, extent, and site of the primary, recurrent, or metastatic lesion. When the primary site cannot be identified, we will use evidence documenting the site(s) of metastasis to evaluate the impairment under 13.27.
2. For operative procedures, including a biopsy or a needle aspiration, we generally need a copy of both the:
a. Operative note, and
b. Pathology report.
3. When we cannot get these documents, we will accept the summary of hospitalization(s) or other medical reports. This evidence should include details of the findings at surgery and, whenever appropriate, the pathological findings.
4. In some situations, we may also need evidence about recurrence, persistence, or progression of the cancer, the response to therapy, and any significant residuals. (See 13.00G.)
E.
When do we need longitudinal evidence?
1.
Cancer with distant metastases.
We generally do not need longitudinal evidence for cancer that has metastasized beyond the regional lymph nodes because this cancer usually meets the requirements of a listing. Exceptions are for cancer with distant metastases that we expect to respond to anticancer therapy. For these exceptions, we usually need a longitudinal record of 3 months after therapy starts to determine whether the therapy achieved its intended effect, and whether this effect is likely to persist.
2.
Other cancers.
When there are no distant metastases, many of the listings require that we consider your response to initial anticancer therapy; that is, the initial planned treatment regimen. This therapy may consist of a single modality or a combination of modalities; that is, multimodal therapy. (See 13.00I4.)
3.
Types of treatment.
a. Whenever the initial planned therapy is a single modality, enough time must pass to allow a determination about whether the therapy will achieve its intended effect. If the treatment fails, the failure often happens within 6 months after treatment starts, and there will often be a change in the treatment regimen.
b. Whenever the initial planned therapy is multimodal, we usually cannot make a determination about the effectiveness of the therapy until we can determine the effects of all the planned modalities. In some cases, we may need to defer adjudication until we can assess the effectiveness of therapy. However, we do not need to defer adjudication to determine whether the therapy will achieve its intended effect if we can make a fully favorable determination or decision based on the length and effects of therapy, or the residuals of the cancer or therapy (see 13.00G).
c. We need evidence under 13.02E, 13.11D, and 13.14C to establish that your treating source initiated multimodal anticancer therapy. We do not need to make a determination about the length or effectiveness of your therapy. Multimodal therapy has been initiated, and satisfies the requirements in 13.02E, 13.11D, and 13.14C, when your treating source starts the first modality. We may defer adjudication if your treating source plans multimodal therapy and has not yet initiated it.
F.
How do we evaluate impairments that do not meet one of the cancer listings?
1. These listings are only examples of cancer that we consider severe enough to prevent you from doing any gainful activity. If your severe impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that meets the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. (See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter.) If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to engage in substantial gainful activity. In that situation, we proceed to the fourth, and, if necessary, the fifth steps of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920 of this chapter. We use the rules in §§ 404.1594 and 416.994 of this chapter, as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.
G.
How do we consider the effects of anticancer therapy?
1.
How we consider the effects of anticancer therapy under the listings.
In many cases, cancers meet listing criteria only if the therapy is not effective and the cancer persists, progresses, or recurs. However, as explained in the following paragraphs, we will not delay adjudication if we can make a fully favorable determination or decision based on the evidence in the case record.
2.
Effects can vary widely.
a. We consider each case on an individual basis because the therapy and its toxicity may vary widely. We will request a specific description of the therapy, including these items:
i. Drugs given.
ii. Dosage.
iii. Frequency of drug administration.
iv. Plans for continued drug administration.
v. Extent of surgery.
vi. Schedule and fields of radiation therapy.
b. We will also request a description of the complications or adverse effects of therapy, such as the following:
i. Continuing gastrointestinal symptoms.
ii. Persistent weakness.
iii. Neurological complications.
iv. Cardiovascular complications.
v. Reactive mental disorders.
3.
Effects of therapy may change.
The severity of the adverse effects of anticancer therapy may change during treatment; therefore, enough time must pass to allow us to evaluate the therapy's effect. The residual effects of treatment are temporary in most instances; however, on occasion, the effects may be disabling for a consecutive period of at least 12 months. In some situations, very serious adverse effects may interrupt and prolong multimodal anticancer therapy for a continuous period of almost 12 months. In these situations, we may determine there is an expectation that your impairment will preclude you from engaging in any gainful activity for at least 12 months.
4.
When the initial anticancer therapy is effective.
We evaluate any post-therapeutic residual impairment(s) not included in these listings under the criteria for the affected body system. We must consider any complications of therapy. When the residual impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, we must consider its effect on your ability to do substantial gainful activity.
H.
How
long do we consider your impairment to be disabling?
1. In some listings, we specify that we will consider your impairment to be disabling until a particular point in time (for example, until at least 12 months from the date of transplantation). We may consider your impairment to be disabling beyond this point when the medical and other evidence justifies it.
2. When a listing does not contain such a specification, we will consider an impairment(s) that meets or medically equals a listing in this body system to be disabling until at least 3 years after onset of complete remission. When the impairment(s) has been in complete remission for at least 3 years, that is, the original tumor or a recurrence (or relapse) and any metastases have not been evident for at least 3 years, the impairment(s) will no longer meet or medically equal the criteria of a listing in this body system.
3. Following the appropriate period, we will consider any residuals, including residuals of the cancer or therapy (see 13.00G), in determining whether you are disabled. If you have a recurrence or relapse of your cancer, your impairment may meet or medically equal one of the listings in this body system again.
I.
What do we mean by the following terms?
1.
Anticancer therapy
means surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, hormones, immunotherapy, or bone marrow or stem cell transplantation. When we refer to surgery as an anticancer treatment, we mean surgical excision for treatment, not for diagnostic purposes.
2.
Inoperable
means surgery is thought to be of no therapeutic value or the surgery cannot be performed; for example, when you cannot tolerate anesthesia or surgery because of another impairment(s), or you have a cancer that is too large or that has invaded crucial structures. This term does not include situations in which your cancer could have been surgically removed but another method of treatment was chosen; for example, an attempt at organ preservation. Your physician may determine whether the cancer
is inoperable before or after you receive neoadjuvant therapy.
Neoadjuvant therapy
is anticancer therapy, such as chemotherapy or radiation, given before surgery in order to reduce the size of the cancer.
3.
Metastases
means the spread of cancer cells by blood, lymph, or other body fluid. This term does not include the spread of cancer cells by direct extension of the cancer to other tissues or organs.
4.
Multimodal therapy
means anticancer therapy that is a combination of at least two types of treatment given in close proximity as a unified whole and usually planned before any treatment has begun. There are three types of treatment modalities: surgery, radiation, and systemic drug therapy (chemotherapy, hormone therapy, and immunotherapy or biological modifier therapy). Examples of multimodal therapy include:
a. Surgery followed by chemotherapy or radiation.
b. Chemotherapy followed by surgery.
c. Chemotherapy and concurrent radiation.
5.
Persistent
means the planned initial anticancer therapy failed to achieve a complete remission of your cancer; that is, your cancer is evident, even if smaller, after the therapy has ended.
6.
Progressive
means the cancer becomes more extensive after treatment; that is, there is evidence that your cancer is growing after you have completed at least half of your planned initial anticancer therapy.
7.
Recurrent or relapse
means the cancer that was in complete remission or entirely removed by surgery has returned.
8.
Unresectable
means surgery or surgeries did not completely remove the cancer. This term includes situations in which your cancer is incompletely resected or the surgical margins are positive. It does not include situations in which there is a finding of a positive margin(s) if additional surgery obtains a margin(s) that is clear. It also does not include situations in which the cancer is completely resected but you are receiving adjuvant therapy.
Adjuvant therapy
is anticancer therapy, such as chemotherapy or radiation, given after surgery in order to eliminate any remaining cancer cells or lessen the chance of recurrence.
J.
Can we establish the existence of a disabling impairment prior to the date of the evidence that shows the cancer satisfies the criteria of a listing?
Yes. We will consider factors such as:
1. The type of cancer and its location.
2. The extent of involvement when the cancer was first demonstrated.
3. Your symptoms.
K.
How do we evaluate specific cancers?
1.
Lymphoma.
a. Many indolent (non-aggressive) lymphomas are controlled by well-tolerated treatment modalities, although the lymphomas may produce intermittent symptoms and signs. We may defer adjudicating these cases for an appropriate period after therapy is initiated to determine whether the therapy will achieve its intended effect, which is usually to stabilize the disease process. (See 13.00E3.) Once your disease stabilizes, we will assess severity based on the extent of involvement of other organ systems and residuals from therapy.
b. A change in therapy for indolent lymphomas is usually an indicator that the therapy is not achieving its intended effect. However, your impairment will not meet the requirements of 13.05A2 if your therapy is changed solely because you or your physician chooses to change it and not because of a failure to achieve stability.
c. We consider Hodgkin lymphoma that recurs more than 12 months after completing initial anticancer therapy to be a new disease rather than a recurrence.
2.
Leukemia.
a.
Acute leukemia.
The initial diagnosis of acute leukemia, including the accelerated or blast phase of chronic myelogenous (granulocytic) leukemia, is based on definitive bone marrow examination. Additional diagnostic information is based on chromosomal analysis, cytochemical and surface marker studies on the abnormal cells, or other methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice. Recurrent disease must be documented by peripheral blood, bone marrow, or cerebrospinal fluid examination, or by testicular biopsy. The initial and follow-up pathology reports should be included.
b.
Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML).
We need a diagnosis of CML based on documented granulocytosis, including immature forms such as differentiated or undifferentiated myelocytes and myeloblasts, and a chromosomal analysis that demonstrates the Philadelphia chromosome. In the absence of a chromosomal analysis, or if the Philadelphia chromosome is not present, the diagnosis may be made by other methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice. The requirement for CML in the accelerated or blast phase is met in 13.06B if laboratory findings show the proportion of blast (immature) cells in the peripheral blood or bone marrow is 10 percent or greater.
c.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
i. We require the diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to be documented by evidence of a chronic lymphocytosis of at least 10,000 cells/mm
3
for 3 months or longer, or other acceptable diagnostic techniques consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice.
ii. We evaluate the complications and residual impairment(s) from CLL under the appropriate listings, such as 13.05A2 or the hematological listings (7.00).
d.
Elevated white cell count.
In cases of chronic leukemia (either myelogenous or lymphocytic), an elevated white cell count, in itself, is not a factor in determining the severity of the impairment.
3.
Macroglobulinemia or heavy chain disease.
We require the diagnosis of these diseases to be confirmed by protein electrophoresis or immunoelectrophoresis. We evaluate the resulting impairment(s) under the appropriate listings, such as 13.05A2 or the hematological listings (7.00).
4.
Primary breast cancer.
a. We evaluate bilateral primary breast cancer (synchronous or metachronous) under 13.10A, which covers local primary disease, and not as a primary disease that has metastasized.
b. We evaluate secondary lymphedema that results from anticancer therapy for breast cancer under 13.10E if the lymphedema is treated by surgery to salvage or restore the functioning of an upper extremity. Secondary lymphedema is edema that results from obstruction or destruction of normal lymphatic channels. We may not restrict our determination of the onset of disability to the date of the surgery; we may establish an earlier onset date of disability if the evidence in your case record supports such a finding.
5.
Carcinoma-in-situ.
Carcinoma-in-situ, or preinvasive carcinoma, usually responds to treatment. When we use the term “carcinoma” in these listings, it does not include carcinoma-in-situ.
6.
Primary central nervous system (CNS) cancers.
We use the criteria in 13.13 to evaluate cancers that originate within the CNS (that is, brain and spinal cord cancers).
a. The CNS cancers listed in 13.13A1 are highly malignant and respond poorly to treatment, and therefore we do not require additional criteria to evaluate them. We do not list pituitary gland cancer (for example, pituitary gland carcinoma) in 13.13A1, although this CNS cancer is highly malignant and responds poorly to treatment. We evaluate pituitary gland cancer under 13.13A1 and do not require additional criteria to evaluate it.
b. We consider a CNS tumor to be malignant if it is classified as Grade II, Grade III, or Grade IV under the World Health Organization (WHO) classification of tumors of the CNS (
WHO Classification of Tumours of the Central Nervous System,
2007).
c. We evaluate benign (for example, WHO Grade I) CNS tumors under 11.05. We evaluate metastasized CNS cancers from non-CNS sites under the primary cancers (see 13.00C). We evaluate any complications of CNS cancers, such as resultant neurological or psychological impairments, under the criteria for the affected body system.
7.
Primary peritoneal carcinoma.
We use the criteria in 13.23E to evaluate primary peritoneal carcinoma in women because this cancer is often indistinguishable from ovarian cancer and is generally treated the same way as ovarian cancer. We use the criteria in 13.15A to evaluate primary peritoneal carcinoma in men because many of these cases are similar to malignant mesothelioma.
8.
Prostate cancer.
We exclude “biochemical recurrence” in 13.24A, which is defined as an increase in the serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level following the completion of the hormonal intervention therapy. We need corroborating evidence to document recurrence, such as radiological studies or findings on physical examination.
9.
Melanoma.
We evaluate malignant melanoma that affects the skin (cutaneous melanoma), eye (ocular melanoma), or mucosal membranes (mucosal melanoma) under 13.29. We evaluate melanoma that is not malignant that affects the skin (benign melanocytic tumor) under the listings in 8.00 or other affected body systems.
L.
How do we evaluate cancer treated by bone marrow or stem cell transplantation, including transplantation using stem cells from umbilical cord blood?
Bone marrow or stem cell transplantation is performed for a variety of cancers. We require the transplantation to occur before we evaluate it under these listings. We do not need to restrict our determination of the onset of disability to the date of the transplantation (13.05, 13.06, or 13.07) or the date of first treatment under the treatment plan that includes transplantation (13.28). We may be able to establish an earlier onset date of disability due to your transplantation if the evidence in your case record supports such a finding.
1.
Acute leukemia (including T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma) or accelerated or blast phase of CML.
If you undergo bone marrow or stem cell transplantation for any of these disorders, we will consider you to be disabled until at least 24 months from the date of diagnosis or relapse, or at least 12 months from the date of transplantation, whichever is later.
2.
Lymphoma, multiple myeloma, or chronic phase of CML.
If you undergo bone marrow or stem cell transplantation for any of these disorders, we will consider you to be disabled until at least 12 months from the date of transplantation.
3.
Other cancers.
We will evaluate any other cancer treated with bone marrow or stem cell transplantation under 13.28, regardless of whether there is another listing that addresses that impairment. The length of time we will consider you to be disabled depends on whether you undergo allogeneic or autologous transplantation.
a.
Allogeneic bone marrow or stem cell transplantation.
If you undergo allogeneic transplantation (transplantation from an unrelated donor or a related donor other than an identical twin), we will consider you to be disabled until at least 12 months from the date of transplantation.
b.
Autologous bone marrow or stem cell transplantation.
If you undergo autologous transplantation (transplantation of your own cells or cells from your identical twin (syngeneic transplantation)), we will consider you to be disabled until at least 12 months from the date of the first treatment under the treatment plan that includes transplantation. The first treatment usually refers to the initial therapy given to prepare you for transplantation.
4.
Evaluating disability after the appropriate time period has elapsed.
We consider any residual impairment(s), such as complications arising from:
a. Graft-versus-host (GVH) disease.
b. Immunosuppressant therapy, such as frequent infections.
c. Significant deterioration of other organ systems.

# 13.01 Category of Impairments, Malignant Neoplastic Diseases
13.02
Soft tissue cancers of the head and neck (except salivary glands—13.08—and thyroid gland—13.09).
A. Inoperable or unresectable.
OR
B. Persistent or recurrent disease following initial anticancer therapy, except persistence or recurrence in the true vocal cord.
OR
C. With metastases beyond the regional lymph nodes.
OR
D. Small-cell (oat cell) carcinoma.
OR
E. Soft tissue cancers originating in the head and neck treated with multimodal anticancer therapy (see 13.00E3c). Consider under a disability until at least 18 months from the date of diagnosis. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
13.03
Skin.
A. Sarcoma or carcinoma with metastases to or beyond the regional lymph nodes.
OR
B. Carcinoma invading deep extradermal structures (for example, skeletal muscle, cartilage, or bone).
13.04
Soft tissue sarcoma.
A. With regional or distant metastases.
OR
B. Persistent or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
13.05
Lymphoma (including mycosis fungoides, but excluding T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma—13.06).
(
See
13.00K1 and 13.00K2c.)
A. Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, as described in 1 or 2:
1. Aggressive lymphoma (including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma) persistent or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
2. Indolent lymphoma (including mycosis fungoides and follicular small cleaved cell) requiring initiation of more than one (single mode or multimodal) anticancer treatment regimen within a period of 12 consecutive months. Consider under a disability from at least the date of initiation of the treatment regimen that failed within 12 months.
OR
B. Hodgkin lymphoma with failure to achieve clinically complete remission, or recurrent lymphoma within 12 months of completing initial anticancer therapy.
OR
C. With bone marrow or stem cell transplantation. Consider under a disability until at least 12 months from the date of transplantation. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
OR
D. Mantle cell lymphoma.
13.06
Leukemia.
(
See
13.00K2.)
A. Acute leukemia (including T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma). Consider under a disability until at least 24 months from the date of diagnosis or relapse, or at least 12 months from the date of bone marrow or stem cell transplantation, whichever is later. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
OR
B. Chronic myelogenous leukemia, as described in 1 or 2:
1. Accelerated or blast phase (see 13.00K2b). Consider under a disability until at least 24 months from the date of diagnosis or relapse, or at least 12 months from the date of bone marrow or stem cell transplantation, whichever is later. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
2. Chronic phase, as described in a or b:
a. Consider under a disability until at least 12 months from the date of bone marrow or stem cell transplantation. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
b. Progressive disease following initial anticancer therapy.
13.07
Multiple myeloma (confirmed by appropriate serum or urine protein electrophoresis and bone marrow findings).
A. Failure to respond or progressive disease following initial anticancer therapy.
OR
B. With bone marrow or stem cell transplantation. Consider under a disability until at least 12 months from the date of transplantation. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
13.08
Salivary glands
—carcinoma or sarcoma with metastases beyond the regional lymph nodes.
13.09
Thyroid gland.
A. Anaplastic (undifferentiated) carcinoma.
OR
B. Carcinoma with metastases beyond the regional lymph nodes progressive despite radioactive iodine therapy.
OR
C. Medullary carcinoma with metastases beyond the regional lymph nodes.
13.10
Breast (except sarcoma—13.04).
(
See
13.00K4.)
A. Locally advanced cancer (inflammatory carcinoma, cancer of any size with direct extension to the chest wall or skin, or cancer of any size with metastases to the ipsilateral internal mammary nodes).
OR
B. Carcinoma with metastases to the supraclavicular or infraclavicular nodes, to 10 or more axillary nodes, or with distant metastases.
OR
C. Recurrent carcinoma, except local recurrence that remits with anticancer therapy.
OR
D. Small-cell (oat cell) carcinoma.
OR
E. With secondary lymphedema that is caused by anticancer therapy and treated by surgery to salvage or restore the functioning of an upper extremity. (See 13.00K4b.) Consider under a disability until at least 12 months from the date of the surgery that treated the secondary lymphedema. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
13.11
Skeletal system
—sarcoma.
A. Inoperable or unresectable.
OR
B. Recurrent cancer (except local recurrence) after initial anticancer therapy.
OR
C. With distant metastases.
OR
D. All other cancers originating in bone with multimodal anticancer therapy (see 13.00E3c). Consider under a disability for 12 months from the date of diagnosis. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
13.12
Maxilla, orbit, or temporal fossa.
A. Sarcoma or carcinoma of any type with regional or distant metastases.
OR
B. Carcinoma of the antrum with extension into the orbit or ethmoid or sphenoid sinus.
OR
C. Cancer with extension to the orbit, meninges, sinuses, or base of the skull.
13.13
Nervous system.
(See 13.00K6.)
A. Primary central nervous system (CNS; that is, brain and spinal cord) cancers, as described in 1, 2, or 3:
1. Glioblastoma multiforme, ependymoblastoma, and diffuse intrinsic brain stem gliomas (see 13.00K6a).
2. Any Grade III or Grade IV CNS cancer (see 13.00K6b), including astrocytomas, sarcomas, and medulloblastoma and other primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs).
3. Any primary CNS cancer, as described in a or b:
a. Metastatic.
b. Progressive or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
OR
B. Primary peripheral nerve or spinal root cancers, as described in 1 or 2:
1. Metastatic.
2. Progressive or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
13.14
Lungs.
A. Non-small-cell carcinoma—inoperable, unresectable, recurrent, or metastatic disease to or beyond the hilar nodes.
OR
B. Small-cell (oat cell) carcinoma.
OR
C. Carcinoma of the superior sulcus (including Pancoast tumors) with multimodal anticancer therapy (see 13.00E3c). Consider under a disability until at least 18 months from the date of diagnosis. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
13.15
Pleura or mediastinum.
A. Malignant mesothelioma of pleura.
OR
B. Tumors of the mediastinum, as described in 1 or 2:
1. With metastases to or beyond the regional lymph nodes.
2. Persistent or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
OR
C. Small-cell (oat cell) carcinoma.
13.16
Esophagus or stomach.
A. Carcinoma or sarcoma of the esophagus.
OR
B. Carcinoma or sarcoma of the stomach, as described in 1 or 2:
1. Inoperable, unresectable, extending to surrounding structures, or recurrent.
2. With metastases to or beyond the regional lymph nodes.
OR
C. Small-cell (oat cell) carcinoma.
13.17
Small intestine
—carcinoma, sarcoma, or carcinoid.
A. Inoperable, unresectable, or recurrent.
OR
B. With metastases beyond the regional lymph nodes.
OR
C. Small-cell (oat cell) carcinoma.
13.18
Large intestine (from ileocecal valve to and including anal canal).
A. Adenocarcinoma that is inoperable, unresectable, or recurrent.
OR
B. Squamous cell carcinoma of the anus, recurrent after surgery.
OR
C. With metastases beyond the regional lymph nodes.
OR
D. Small-cell (oat cell) carcinoma.
13.19
Liver or gallbladder
—cancer of the liver, gallbladder, or bile ducts.
13.20
Pancreas.
A. Carcinoma (except islet cell carcinoma).
OR
B. Islet cell carcinoma that is physiologically active and is either inoperable or unresectable.
13.21
Kidneys, adrenal glands, or ureters
—carcinoma.
A. Inoperable, unresectable, or recurrent.
OR
B. With metastases to or beyond the regional lymph nodes.
13.22
Urinary bladder
—carcinoma.
A. With infiltration beyond the bladder wall.
OR
B. Recurrent after total cystectomy.
OR
C. Inoperable or unresectable.
OR
D. With metastases to or beyond the regional lymph nodes.
OR
E. Small-cell (oat cell) carcinoma.
13.23
Cancers of the female genital tract
—carcinoma or sarcoma (including primary peritoneal carcinoma).
A. Uterus (corpus), as described in 1, 2, or 3:
1. Invading adjoining organs.
2. With metastases to or beyond the regional lymph nodes.
3. Persistent or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
OR
B. Uterine cervix, as described in 1, 2, or 3:
1. Extending to the pelvic wall, lower portion of the vagina, or adjacent or distant organs.
2. Persistent or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
3. With metastases to distant (for example, para-aortic or supraclavicular) lymph nodes.
OR
C. Vulva or vagina, as described in 1, 2, or 3:
1. Invading adjoining organs.
2. With metastases to or beyond the regional lymph nodes.
3. Persistent or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
OR
D. Fallopian tubes, as described in 1 or 2:
1. Extending to the serosa or beyond.
2. Persistent or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
E. Ovaries, as described in 1 or 2:
1. All cancers except germ-cell cancers, with at least one of the following:
a. Extension beyond the pelvis; for example, implants on, or direct extension to, peritoneal, omental, or bowel surfaces.
b. Metastases to or beyond the regional lymph nodes.
c. Recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
2. Germ-cell cancers—progressive or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
OR
F. Small-cell (oat cell) carcinoma.
13.24
Prostate gland
—carcinoma.
A. Progressive or recurrent (not including biochemical recurrence) despite initial hormonal intervention. (See 13.00K8.)
OR
B. With visceral metastases (metastases to internal organs).
OR
C. Small cell (oat cell) carcinoma.
13.25
Testicles
—cancer with metastatic disease progressive or recurrent following initial chemotherapy.
13.26
Penis
—carcinoma with metastases to or beyond the regional lymph nodes.
13.27
Primary site unknown after appropriate search for primary
—metastatic carcinoma or sarcoma, except for squamous cell carcinoma confined to the neck nodes.
13.28
Cancer treated by bone marrow or stem cell transplantation.
(See 13.00L.)
A. Allogeneic transplantation. Consider under a disability until at least 12 months from the date of transplantation. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
OR
B. Autologous transplantation. Consider under a disability until at least 12 months from the date of the first treatment under
the treatment plan that includes transplantation. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
13.29
Malignant melanoma
(including skin, ocular, or mucosal melanomas), as described in either A, B, or C:
A. Recurrent (except an additional primary melanoma at a different site, which is not considered to be recurrent disease) following either 1 or 2:
1. Wide excision (skin melanoma).
2. Enucleation of the eye (ocular melanoma).
OR
B. With metastases as described in 1, 2, or 3:
1. Metastases to one or more clinically apparent nodes; that is, nodes that are detected by imaging studies (excluding lymphoscintigraphy) or by clinical evaluation (palpable).
2. If the nodes are not clinically apparent, with metastases to four or more nodes.
3. Metastases to adjacent skin (satellite lesions) or distant sites (for example, liver, lung, or brain).
OR
C. Mucosal melanoma.

# 14.00 Immune System Disorders
A.
What disorders do we evaluate under the immune system disorders listings?
1.
We evaluate immune system disorders that cause dysfunction in one or more components of your immune system.
a. The dysfunction may be due to problems in antibody production, impaired cell-mediated immunity, a combined type of antibody/cellular deficiency, impaired phagocytosis, or complement deficiency.
b. Immune system disorders may result in recurrent and unusual infections, or inflammation and dysfunction of the body's own tissues. Immune system disorders can cause a deficit in a single organ or body system that results in extreme (that is, very serious) loss of function. They can also cause lesser degrees of limitations in two or more organs or body systems, and when associated with symptoms or signs, such as severe fatigue, fever, malaise, diffuse musculoskeletal pain, or involuntary weight loss, can also result in extreme limitation.
c. We organize the discussions of immune system disorders in three categories: Autoimmune disorders; Immune deficiency disorders, excluding human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; and HIV infection.
2.
Autoimmune disorders (14.00D).
Autoimmune disorders are caused by dysfunctional immune responses directed against the body's own tissues, resulting in chronic, multisystem impairments that differ in clinical manifestations, course, and outcome. They are sometimes referred to as rheumatic diseases, connective tissue disorders, or collagen vascular disorders. Some of the features of autoimmune disorders in adults differ from the features of the same disorders in children.
3.
Immune deficiency disorders, excluding HIV infection (14.00E).
Immune deficiency disorders are characterized by recurrent or unusual infections that respond poorly to treatment, and are often associated with complications affecting other parts of the body. Immune deficiency disorders are classified as either
primary
(congenital) or
acquired.
Individuals with immune deficiency disorders also have an increased risk of malignancies and of having autoimmune disorders.
4.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection (14.00F).
HIV infection may be characterized by increased susceptibility to common infections as well as opportunistic infections, cancers, or other conditions listed in 14.11.
B.
What information do we need to show that you have an immune system disorder?
Generally, we need your medical history, a report(s) of a physical examination, a report(s) of laboratory findings, and in some instances, appropriate medically acceptable imaging or tissue biopsy reports to show that you have an immune system disorder. Therefore, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain your medical history, medical findings, and results of laboratory tests. We explain the information we need in more detail in the sections below.

# C. Definitions
1.
Appropriate medically acceptable imaging
includes, but is not limited to, angiography, x-ray imaging, computerized axial tomography (CAT scan) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), with or without contrast material, myelography, and radionuclear bone scans. “Appropriate” means that the technique used is the proper one to support the evaluation and diagnosis of the impairment.
2.
Constitutional symptoms or signs
, as used in these listings, means severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss.
Severe fatigue
means a frequent sense of exhaustion that results in significantly reduced physical activity or mental function.
Malaise
means frequent feelings of illness, bodily discomfort, or lack of well-being that result in significantly reduced physical activity or mental function.
3.
Disseminated
means that a condition is spread over a considerable area. The type and extent of the spread will depend on your specific disease.
4.
Dysfunction
means that one or more of the body regulatory mechanisms are impaired, causing either an excess or deficiency of immunocompetent cells or their products.
5.
Extra-articular
means “other than the joints”; for example, an organ(s) such as the heart, lungs, kidneys, or skin.
6.
Documented medical need
has the same meaning as in 1.00C6a.
7.
Fine and gross movements
has the same meaning as in 1.00E4.
8.
Major joint of an upper or a lower extremity
has the same meaning as in 1.00I2 and 1.00I3.
9.
Persistent
means that a sign(s) or symptom(s) has continued over time. The precise meaning will depend on the specific immune system disorder, the usual course of the disorder, and the other circumstances of your clinical course.
10.
Recurrent
means that a condition that previously responded adequately to an appropriate course of treatment returns after a period of remission or regression. The precise meaning, such as the extent of response or remission and the time periods involved, will depend on the specific disease or condition you have, the body system affected, the usual course of the disorder and its treatment, and the other facts of your particular case.
11.
Resistant to treatment
means that a condition did not respond adequately to an appropriate course of treatment. Whether a response is adequate or a course of treatment is appropriate will depend on the specific disease or condition you have, the body system affected, the usual course of the disorder and its treatment, and the other facts of your particular case.
12.
Severe
means medical severity as used by the medical community. The term does not have the same meaning as it does when we use it in connection with a finding at the second step of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920 of this chapter.

# D. How do we document and evaluate the listed autoimmune disorders?
1.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (14.02).
a.
General.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic inflammatory disease that can affect any organ or body system. It is frequently, but not always, accompanied by constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, involuntary weight loss). Major organ or body system involvement can include: Respiratory (pleuritis, pneumonitis), cardiovascular (endocarditis, myocarditis, pericarditis, vasculitis), renal (glomerulonephritis), hematologic (anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia), skin (photosensitivity), neurologic (seizures), mental (anxiety, fluctuating cognition (“lupus fog”), mood disorders, organic brain syndrome, psychosis), or immune system disorders (inflammatory arthritis). Immunologically, there is an array of circulating serum auto-antibodies and pro- and anti-coagulant proteins that may occur in a highly variable pattern.
b.
Documentation of SLE.
Generally, but not always, the medical evidence will show that your SLE satisfies the criteria in the current “Criteria for the Classification of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus” by the American College of Rheumatology found in the most recent edition of the
Primer on the Rheumatic Diseases
published by the Arthritis Foundation.
2.
Systemic vasculitis (14.03).
a.
General.
(i) Vasculitis is an inflammation of blood vessels. It may occur acutely in association with adverse drug reactions, certain chronic infections, and occasionally, malignancies. More often, it is chronic and the cause is unknown. Symptoms vary depending on which blood vessels are involved. Systemic vasculitis may also be associated with other autoimmune disorders; for example, SLE or dermatomyositis.
(ii) There are several clinical patterns, including but not limited to polyarteritis nodosa, Takayasu's arteritis (aortic arch arteritis), giant cell arteritis (temporal arteritis), and Wegener's granulomatosis.
b.
Documentation of systemic vasculitis.
Angiography or tissue biopsy confirms a diagnosis of systemic vasculitis when the disease is suspected clinically. When you have had angiography or tissue biopsy for systemic vasculitis, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain reports of the results of that procedure. However, we will not purchase angiography or tissue biopsy.
3.
Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) (14.04).
a.
General.
Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) constitutes a spectrum of disease in which thickening of the skin is the clinical hallmark. Raynaud's phenomenon, often medically severe and progressive, is present frequently and may be the peripheral manifestation of a vasospastic abnormality in the heart, lungs, and kidneys. The CREST syndrome (calcinosis, Raynaud's phenomenon, esophageal dysmotility, sclerodactyly, and telangiectasia) is a variant that may slowly progress over years to the generalized process, systemic sclerosis.
b.
Diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis.
In diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis (also known as diffuse scleroderma), major organ or systemic involvement can include the gastrointestinal tract, lungs, heart, kidneys, and muscle in addition to skin or blood vessels. Although arthritis can occur, joint dysfunction results primarily from soft tissue/cutaneous thickening, fibrosis, and contractures.
c.
Localized scleroderma (linear scleroderma and morphea).
(i) Localized scleroderma (linear scleroderma and morphea) is more common in children than in adults. However, this type of scleroderma can persist into adulthood. To assess the severity of the impairment, we need a description of the extent of involvement of linear scleroderma and the location of the lesions. For example, linear
scleroderma involving the arm but not crossing any joints is not as functionally limiting as sclerodactyly (scleroderma localized to the fingers). Linear scleroderma of a lower extremity involving skin thickening and atrophy of underlying muscle or bone caesult in contractures and leg length discrepancy. In such cases, we may evaluate your impairment under the musculoskeletal listings (1.00).
(ii) When there is isolated morphea of the face causing facial disfigurement from unilateral hypoplasia of the mandible, maxilla, zygoma, or orbit, adjudication may be more appropriate under the criteria in the affected body system, such as special senses and speech (2.00) or mental disorders (12.00).
(iii) Chronic variants of these syndromes include disseminated morphea, Shulman's disease (diffuse fasciitis with eosinophilia), and eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (often associated with toxins such as toxic oil or contaminated tryptophan), all of which can impose medically severe musculoskeletal dysfunction and may also lead to restrictive pulmonary disease. We evaluate these variants of the disease under the criteria in the musculoskeletal listings (1.00) or respiratory system listings (3.00).
d.
Documentation of systemic sclerosis (scleroderma).
Documentation involves differentiating the clinical features of systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) from other autoimmune disorders. However, there may be an overlap.
4.
Polymyositis and dermatomyositis (14.05).
a.
General.
Polymyositis and dermatomyositis are related disorders that are characterized by an inflammatory process in striated muscle, occurring alone or in association with other autoimmune disorders or malignancy. The most common manifestations are symmetric weakness, and less frequently, pain and tenderness of the proximal limb-girdle (shoulder or pelvic) musculature. There may also be involvement of the cervical, cricopharyngeal, esophageal, intercostal, and diaphragmatic muscles.
b.
Documentation of polymyositis and dermatomyositis.
Generally, but not always, polymyositis is associated with elevated serum muscle enzymes (creatine phosphokinase (CPK), aminotransferases, and aldolase), and characteristic abnormalities on electromyography and muscle biopsy. In dermatomyositis there are characteristic skin findings in addition to the findings of polymyositis. When you have had electromyography or muscle biopsy for polymyositis or dermatomyositis, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain reports of the results of that procedure. However, we will not purchase electromyography or muscle biopsy.
c.
Additional information about how we evaluate polymyositis and dermatomyositis under the listings.
(i) Weakness of your pelvic girdle muscles that results in your inability to rise independently from a squatting or sitting position or to climb stairs may be an indication that you are unable to walk without assistance. Weakness of your shoulder girdle muscles may result in your inability to perform lifting, carrying, and reaching overhead, and also may seriously affect your ability to perform activities requiring fine movements. We evaluate these limitations under 14.05A.
(ii) We use the malignant neoplastic diseases listings (13.00) to evaluate malignancies associated with polymyositis or dermatomyositis. We evaluate the involvement of other organs/body systems under the criteria for the listings in the affected body system.
5.
Undifferentiated and mixed connective tissue disease (14.06).
a.
General.
This listing includes syndromes with clinical and immunologic features of several autoimmune disorders, but which do not satisfy the criteria for any of the specific disorders described. For example, you may have clinical features of SLE and systemic vasculitis, and the serologic (blood test) findings of rheumatoid arthritis.
b.
Documentation of undifferentiated and mixed connective tissue disease.
Undifferentiated connective tissue disease is diagnosed when clinical features and serologic (blood test) findings, such as rheumatoid factor or antinuclear antibody (consistent with an autoimmune disorder) are present but do not satisfy the criteria for a specific disease. Mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is diagnosed when clinical features and serologic findings of two or more autoimmune diseases overlap.
6.
Inflammatory arthritis (14.09).
a.
General.
The spectrum of inflammatory arthritis includes a vast array of disorders that differ in cause, course, and outcome. Clinically, inflammation of major joints in an upper or a lower extremity may be the dominant manifestation causing difficulties with walking or fine and gross movements; there may be joint pain, swelling, and tenderness. The arthritis may affect other joints, or cause less limitation in walking or fine and gross movements. However, in combination with extra-articular features, including constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, and involuntary weight loss), inflammatory arthritis may result in an extreme limitation.
b.
Inflammatory arthritis involving the axial spine (spondyloarthropathy).
In adults, inflammatory arthritis involving the axial spine may be associated with disorders such as:
(i) Reiter's syndrome;
(ii) Ankylosing spondylitis;
(iii) Psoriatic arthritis;
(iv) Whipple's disease;
(v) Behçet's disease; and
(vi) Inflammatory bowel disease.
c.
Inflammatory arthritis involving the peripheral joints.
In adults, inflammatory arthritis involving peripheral joints may be associated with disorders such as:
(i) Rheumatoid arthritis;
(ii) Sjögren's syndrome;
(iii) Psoriatic arthritis;
(iv) Crystal deposition disorders (gout and pseudogout);
(v) Lyme disease; and
(vi) Inflammatory bowel disease.
d.
Documentation of inflammatory arthritis.
Generally, but not always, the diagnosis of inflammatory arthritis is based on the clinical features and serologic findings described in the most recent edition of the Primer on the Rheumatic Diseases published by the Arthritis Foundation.
e.
How we evaluate inflammatory arthritis under the listings.
(i) Listing-level severity in 14.09A and 14.09C1 is shown by the presence of an impairment-related physical limitation of functioning. In 14.09C1, if you have the required ankylosis (fixation) of your cervical or dorsolumbar spine, we will find that you have a listing-level impairment-related physical limitation in your ability to see in front of you, above you, and to the side, even though you might not require bilateral upper limb assistance.
(ii) Listing-level severity in 14.09B, 14.09C2, and 14.09D is shown by inflammatory arthritis that involves various combinations of complications (such as inflammation or deformity, extra-articular features, repeated manifestations, and constitutional symptoms and signs) of one or more major joints in an upper or a lower extremity (see 14.00C8) or other joints. Extra-articular impairments may also meet listings in other body systems.
(iii) Extra-articular features of inflammatory arthritis may involve any body system; for example: Musculoskeletal (heel enthesopathy), ophthalmologic (iridocyclitis, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, uveitis), pulmonary (pleuritis, pulmonary fibrosis or nodules, restrictive lung disease), cardiovascular (aortic valve insufficiency, arrhythmias, coronary arteritis, myocarditis, pericarditis, Raynaud's phenomenon, systemic vasculitis), renal (amyloidosis of the kidney), hematologic (chronic anemia, thrombocytopenia), neurologic (peripheral neuropathy, radiculopathy, spinal cord or cauda equina compression with sensory and motor loss), mental (cognitive dysfunction, poor memory), and immune system (Felty's syndrome (hypersplenism with compromised immune competence)).
(iv) If both inflammation and chronic deformities are present, we evaluate your impairment under the criteria of any appropriate listing.
7.
Sjögren's syndrome (14.10).
a.
General.
(i) Sjögren's syndrome is an immune-mediated disorder of the exocrine glands. Involvement of the lacrimal and salivary glands is the hallmark feature, resulting in symptoms of dry eyes and dry mouth, and possible complications, such as corneal damage, blepharitis (eyelid inflammation), dysphagia (difficulty in swallowing), dental caries, and the inability to speak for extended periods of time. Involvement of the exocrine glands of the upper airways may result in persistent dry cough.
(ii) Many other organ systems may be involved, including musculoskeletal (arthritis, myositis), respiratory (interstitial fibrosis), gastrointestinal (dysmotility, dysphagia, involuntary weight loss), genitourinary (interstitial cystitis, renal tubular acidosis), skin (purpura, vasculitis), neurologic (central nervous system disorders, cranial and peripheral neuropathies), mental (cognitive dysfunction, poor memory), and neoplastic (lymphoma). Severe fatigue and malaise are frequently reported. Sjögren's syndrome may be associated with other autoimmune disorders (for example, rheumatoid arthritis or SLE); usually the clinical features of the associated disorder predominate.
b.
Documentation of Sjögren's syndrome.
If you have Sjögren's syndrome, the medical evidence will generally, but not always, show that your disease satisfies the criteria in the current “Criteria for the Classification of Sjögren's Syndrome” by the American College of Rheumatology found in the most recent edition of the
Primer on the Rheumatic Diseases
published by the Arthritis Foundation.

# E. How do we document and evaluate immune deficiency disorders, excluding HIV infection?
1.
General.
a. Immune deficiency disorders can be classified as:
(i)
Primary
(congenital); for example, X-linked agammaglobulinemia, thymic hypoplasia (DiGeorge syndrome), severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency.
(ii)
Acquired;
for example, medication-related.
b. Primary immune deficiency disorders are seen mainly in children. However, recent advances in the treatment of these disorders have allowed many affected children to survive well into adulthood. Occasionally, these disorders are first diagnosed in adolescence or adulthood.
2.
Documentation of immune deficiency disorders.
The medical evidence must include documentation of the specific type of immune deficiency. Documentation may be by
laboratory evidence or by other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice.
3.
Immune deficiency disorders treated by stem cell transplantation.
a.
Evaluation in the first 12 months.
If you undergo stem cell transplantation for your immune deficiency disorder, we will consider you disabled until at least 12 months from the date of the transplant.
b.
Evaluation after the 12-month period has elapsed.
After the 12-month period has elapsed, we will consider any residuals of your immune deficiency disorder as well as any residual impairment(s) resulting from the treatment, such as complications arising from:
(i) Graft-versus-host (GVH) disease.
(ii) Immunosuppressant therapy, such as frequent infections.
(iii) Significant deterioration of other organ systems.
4.
Medication-induced immune suppression.
Medication effects can result in varying degrees of immune suppression, but most resolve when the medication is ceased. However, if you are prescribed medication for long-term immune suppression, such as after an organ transplant, we will evaluate:
a. The frequency and severity of infections.
b. Residuals from the organ transplant itself, after the 12-month period has elapsed.
c. Significant deterioration of other organ systems.
F.
How do we document and evaluate HIV infection?
Any individual with HIV infection, including one with a diagnosis of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), may be found disabled under 14.11 if his or her impairment meets the criteria in that listing or is medically equivalent to the criteria in that listing.
1.
Documentation of HIV infection.
a.
Definitive documentation of HIV infection.
We may document a diagnosis of HIV infection by positive findings on one or more of the following definitive laboratory tests:
(i) HIV antibody screening test (for example, enzyme immunoassay, or EIA), confirmed by a supplemental HIV antibody test such as the Western blot (immunoblot), an immunofluorescence assay, or an HIV-1/HIV-2 antibody differentiation immunoassay.
(ii) HIV nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) detection test (for example, polymerase chain reaction, or PCR).
(iii) HIV p24 antigen (p24Ag) test.
(iv) Isolation of HIV in viral culture.
(v) Other tests that are highly specific for detection of HIV and that are consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge.
b. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain the results of your laboratory testing. Pursuant to §§ 404.1519f and 416.919f of this chapter, we will purchase examinations or tests necessary to make a determination in your claim if no other acceptable documentation exists.
c.
Other acceptable documentation of HIV infection.
We may also document HIV infection without definitive laboratory evidence.
(i) We will accept a persuasive report from a physician that a positive diagnosis of your HIV infection was confirmed by an appropriate laboratory test(s), such as those described in 14.00F1a. To be persuasive, this report must state that you had the appropriate definitive laboratory test(s) for diagnosing your HIV infection and provide the results. The report must also be consistent with the remaining evidence of record.
(ii) We may also document HIV infection by the medical history, clinical and laboratory findings, and diagnosis(es) indicated in the medical evidence, provided that such documentation is consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice and is consistent with the other evidence in your case record. For example, we will accept a diagnosis of HIV infection without definitive laboratory evidence of the HIV infection if you have an opportunistic disease that is predictive of a defect in cell-mediated immunity (for example, toxoplasmosis of the brain or
Pneumocystis
pneumonia (PCP)), and there is no other known cause of diminished resistance to that disease (for example, long-term steroid treatment or lymphoma). In such cases, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain full details of the history, medical findings, and results of testing.
2.
Documentation of the manifestations of HIV infection.
a.
Definitive documentation of manifestations of HIV infection.
We may document manifestations of HIV infection by positive findings on definitive laboratory tests, such as culture, microscopic examination of biopsied tissue or other material (for example, bronchial washings), serologic tests, or on other generally acceptable definitive tests consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice.
b. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain the results of your laboratory testing. Pursuant to §§ 404.1519f and 416.919f of this chapter, we will purchase examinations or tests necessary to make a determination of your claim if no other acceptable documentation exists.
c.
Other acceptable documentation of manifestations of HIV infection.
We may also document manifestations of HIV infection without definitive laboratory evidence.
(i) We will accept a persuasive report from a physician that a positive diagnosis of your manifestation of HIV infection was confirmed by an appropriate laboratory test(s). To be persuasive, this report must state that
you had the appropriate definitive laboratory test(s) for diagnosing your manifestation of HIV infection and provide the results. The report must also be consistent with the remaining evidence of record.
(ii) We may also document manifestations of HIV infection without the definitive laboratory evidence described in 14.00F2a, provided that such documentation is consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice and is consistent with the other evidence in your case record. For example, many conditions are now commonly diagnosed based on some or all of the following: Medical history, clinical manifestations, laboratory findings (including appropriate medically acceptable imaging), and treatment responses. In such cases, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain full details of the history, medical findings, and results of testing.
3.
Disorders associated with HIV infection (14.11A-E).
a.
Multicentric Castleman disease
(MCD, 14.11A) affects multiple groups of lymph nodes and organs containing lymphoid tissue. This widespread involvement distinguishes MCD from
localized
(or unicentric) Castleman disease, which affects only a single set of lymph nodes. While not a cancer, MCD is known as a lymphoproliferative disorder. Its clinical presentation and progression is similar to that of lymphoma, and its treatment may include radiation or chemotherapy. We require characteristic findings on microscopic examination of the biopsied lymph nodes or other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice to establish the diagnosis. Localized (or unicentric) Castleman disease does not meet or medically equal the criterion in 14.11A, but we may evaluate it under the criteria in 14.11H or 14.11I.
b.
Primary central nervous system lymphoma
(PCNSL, 14.11B) originates in the brain, spinal cord, meninges, or eye. Imaging tests (for example, MRI) of the brain, while not diagnostic, may show a single lesion or multiple lesions in the white matter of the brain. We require characteristic findings on microscopic examination of the cerebral spinal fluid or of the biopsied brain tissue, or other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice to establish the diagnosis.
c.
Primary effusion lymphoma
(PEL, 14.11C) is also known as body cavity lymphoma. We require characteristic findings on microscopic examination of the effusion fluid or of the biopsied tissue from the affected internal organ, or other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice to establish the diagnosis.
d.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
(PML, 14.11D) is a progressive neurological degenerative syndrome caused by the John Cunningham (JC) virus in immunosuppressed individuals. Clinical findings of PML include clumsiness, progressive weakness, and visual and speech changes. Personality and cognitive changes may also occur. We require appropriate clinical findings, characteristic white matter lesions on MRI, and a positive PCR test for the JC virus in the cerebrospinal fluid to establish the diagnosis. We also accept a positive brain biopsy for JC virus or other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice to establish the diagnosis.
e.
Pulmonary Kaposi sarcoma
(Kaposi sarcoma in the lung, 14.11E) is the most serious form of Kaposi sarcoma (KS). Other internal KS tumors (for example, tumors of the gastrointestinal tract) have a more variable prognosis. We require characteristic findings on microscopic examination of the induced sputum, bronchoalveolar lavage washings, or of the biopsied transbronchial tissue, or by other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice to establish the diagnosis.
4.
CD4 measurement (14.11F).
To evaluate your HIV infection under 14.11F, we require one measurement of your absolute CD4 count (also known as CD4 count or CD4+ T-helper lymphocyte count). This measurement must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review. If you have more than one measurement of your absolute CD4 count within this period, we will use your lowest absolute CD4 count.
5.
Measurement of CD4 and either body mass index or hemoglobin (14.11G).
To evaluate your HIV infection under 14.11G, we require one measurement of your absolute CD4 count or your CD4 percentage,
and
either a measurement of your body mass index (BMI) or your hemoglobin. These measurements must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review. If you have more than one measurement of your CD4 (absolute count or percentage), BMI, or hemoglobin within this period, we will use the lowest of your CD4 (absolute count or percentage), BMI, or hemoglobin. The date of your lowest CD4 (absolute count or percentage) measurement may be different from the date of your lowest BMI or hemoglobin measurement. We calculate your BMI using the formulas in the digestive disorders body system (5.00).
6.
Complications of HIV infection requiring hospitalization (14.11H).
a. Complications of HIV infection may include infections (common or opportunistic), cancers, and other conditions. Examples of
complications that may result in hospitalization include: Depression; diarrhea; immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome; malnutrition; and PCP and other severe infections.
b. Under 14.11H, we require three hospitalizations within a 12-month period that are at least 30 days apart and that result from a complication(s) of HIV infection. The hospitalizations may be for the same complication or different complications of HIV infection and are not limited to the examples of complications that may result in hospitalization listed in 14.00F6a. All three hospitalizations must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review. Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, including hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization.
c. We will use the rules on medical equivalence in §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter to evaluate your HIV infection if you have fewer, but longer, hospitalizations, or more frequent, but shorter, hospitalizations, or if you receive nursing, rehabilitation, or other care in alternative settings.
7.
HIV infection manifestations specific to women.
a.
General.
Most women with severe immunosuppression secondary to HIV infection exhibit the typical opportunistic infections and other conditions, such as PCP,
Candida
esophagitis, wasting syndrome, cryptococcosis, and toxoplasmosis. However, HIV infection may have different manifestations in women than in men. Adjudicators must carefully scrutinize the medical evidence and be alert to the variety of medical conditions specific to, or common in, women with HIV infection that may affect their ability to function in the workplace.
b.
Additional considerations for evaluating HIV infection in women.
Many of these manifestations (for example, vulvovaginal candidiasis or pelvic inflammatory disease) occur in women with or without HIV infection, but can be more severe or resistant to treatment, or occur more frequently in a woman whose immune system is suppressed. Therefore, when evaluating the claim of a woman with HIV infection, it is important to consider gynecologic and other problems specific to women, including any associated symptoms (for example, pelvic pain), in assessing the severity of the impairment and resulting functional limitations. We may evaluate manifestations of HIV infection in women under 14.11H-I, or under the criteria for the appropriate body system (for example, cervical cancer under 13.23).
8.
HIV-associated dementia (HAD).
HAD is an advanced neurocognitive disorder, characterized by a significant decline in cognitive functioning. We evaluate HAD under 14.11I. Other names associated with neurocognitive disorders due to HIV infection include: AIDS dementia complex, HIV dementia, HIV encephalopathy, and major neurocognitive disorder due to HIV infection.

# G. How do we consider the effects of treatment in evaluating your autoimmune disorder, immune deficiency disorder, or HIV infection?
1.
General.
If your impairment does not otherwise meet the requirements of a listing, we will consider your medical treatment in terms of its effectiveness in improving the signs, symptoms, and laboratory abnormalities of your specific immune system disorder or its manifestations, and in terms of any side effects that limit your functioning. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain a specific description of the treatment you receive (including surgery) for your immune system disorder. We consider:
a. The effects of medications you take.
b. Adverse side effects (acute and chronic).
c. The intrusiveness and complexity of your treatment (for example, the dosing schedule, need for injections).
d. The effect of treatment on your mental functioning (for example, cognitive changes, mood disturbance).
e. Variability of your response to treatment (see 14.00G2).
f. The interactive and cumulative effects of your treatments. For example, many individuals with immune system disorders receive treatment both for their immune system disorders and for the manifestations of the disorders or co-occurring impairments, such as treatment for HIV infection and hepatitis C. The interactive and cumulative effects of these treatments may be greater than the effects of each treatment considered separately.
g. The duration of your treatment.
h. Any other aspects of treatment that may interfere with your ability to function.
2.
Variability of your response to treatment.
Your response to treatment and the adverse or beneficial consequences of your treatment may vary widely. The effects of your treatment may be temporary or long term. For example, some individuals may show an initial positive response to a drug or combination of drugs followed by a decrease in effectiveness. When we evaluate your response to treatment and how your treatment may affect you, we consider such factors as disease activity before treatment, requirements for changes in therapeutic regimens, the time required for therapeutic effectiveness of a particular drug or drugs, the limited number of drug combinations that may be available for your impairment(s), and the time-limited efficacy of some drugs. For example, an individual with HIV infection or another immune deficiency disorder who develops pneumonia or tuberculosis may not respond to the same antibiotic regimen used in treating individuals without HIV infection or another
immune deficiency disorder, or may not respond to an antibiotic that he or she responded to before. Therefore, we must consider the effects of your treatment on an individual basis, including the effects of your treatment on your ability to function.
3.
How we evaluate the effects of treatment for autoimmune disorders on your ability to function.
Some medications may have acute or long-term side effects. When we consider the effects of corticosteroids or other treatments for autoimmune disorders on your ability to function, we consider the factors in 14.00G1 and 14.00G2. Long-term corticosteroid treatment can cause ischemic necrosis of bone, posterior subcapsular cataract, weight gain, glucose intolerance, increased susceptibility to infection, and osteoporosis that may result in a loss of function. In addition, medications used in the treatment of autoimmune disorders may also have effects on mental functioning, including cognition (for example, memory), concentration, and mood.
4.
How we evaluate the effects of treatment for immune deficiency disorders, excluding HIV infection, on your ability to function.
When we consider the effects of your treatment for your immune deficiency disorder on your ability to function, we consider the factors in 14.00G1 and 14.00G2. A frequent need for treatment such as intravenous immunoglobulin and gamma interferon therapy can be intrusive and interfere with your ability to work. We will also consider whether you have chronic side effects from these or other medications, including severe fatigue, fever, headaches, high blood pressure, joint swelling, muscle aches, nausea, shortness of breath, or limitations in mental function including cognition (for example, memory), concentration, and mood.
5.
How we evaluate the effects of treatment for HIV infection on your ability to function.
a.
General.
When we consider the effects of antiretroviral drugs (including the effects of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART)) and the effects of treatments for the manifestations of HIV infection on your ability to function, we consider the factors in 14.00G1 and 14.00G2. Side effects of antiretroviral drugs include, but are not limited to: Bone marrow suppression, pancreatitis, gastrointestinal intolerance (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), neuropathy, rash, hepatotoxicity, lipodystrophy (fat redistribution, such as “buffalo hump”), glucose intolerance, and lactic acidosis. In addition, medications used in the treatment of HIV infection may also have effects on mental functioning, including cognition (for example, memory), concentration, and mood, and may result in malaise, severe fatigue, joint and muscle pain, and insomnia. The symptoms of HIV infection and the side effects of medication may be indistinguishable from each other. We will consider all of your functional limitations, whether they result from your symptoms or signs of HIV infection or the side effects of your treatment.
b.
Structured treatment interruptions.
A structured treatment interruption (STI, also called a “drug holiday”) is a treatment practice during which your treating source advises you to stop taking your medications temporarily. An STI in itself does not imply that your medical condition has improved; nor does it imply that you are noncompliant with your treatment because you are following your treating source's advice. Therefore, if you have stopped taking medication because your treating source prescribed or recommended an STI, we will not find that you are failing to follow treatment or draw inferences about the severity of your impairment on this fact alone. We will consider why your treating source has prescribed or recommended an STI and all the other information in your case record when we determine the severity of your impairment.
6.
When there is no record of ongoing treatment.
If you have not received ongoing treatment or have not had an ongoing relationship with the medical community despite the existence of a severe impairment(s), we will evaluate the medical severity and duration of your immune system disorder on the basis of the current objective medical evidence and other evidence in your case record, taking into consideration your medical history, symptoms, clinical and laboratory findings, and medical source opinions. If you have just begun treatment and we cannot determine whether you are disabled based on the evidence we have, we may need to wait to determine the effect of the treatment on your ability to function. The amount of time we need to wait will depend on the facts of your case. If you have not received treatment, you may not be able to show an impairment that meets the criteria of one of the immune system disorders listings, but your immune system disorder may medically equal a listing or be disabling based on a consideration of your residual functional capacity, age, education, and work experience.

# H. How do we consider your symptoms, including your pain, severe fatigue, and malaise?
Your symptoms, including pain, severe fatigue, and malaise, may be important factors in our determination whether your immune system disorder(s) meets or medically equals a listing or in our determination whether you are otherwise able to work. In order for us to consider your symptoms, you must have medical signs or laboratory findings showing the existence of a medically determinable impairment(s) that could reasonably be expected to produce the symptoms. If you have such an impairment(s), we will evaluate the intensity, persistence, and functional effects of your symptoms using the
rules throughout 14.00 and in our other regulations. See §§ 404.1521, 404.1529, 416.921, and 416.929. Additionally, when we assess the credibility of your complaints about your symptoms and their functional effects, we will not draw any inferences from the fact that you do not receive treatment or that you are not following treatment without considering all of the relevant evidence in your case record, including any explanations you provide that may explain why you are not receiving or following treatment.
I.
How do we use the functional criteria in these listings?
1. The following listings in this body system include standards for evaluating the functional limitations resulting from immune system disorders: 14.02B, for systemic lupus erythematosus; 14.03B, for systemic vasculitis; 14.04D, for systemic sclerosis (scleroderma); 14.05E, for polymyositis and dermatomyositis; 14.06B, for undifferentiated and mixed connective tissue disease; 14.07C, for immune deficiency disorders, excluding HIV infection; 14.09D, for inflammatory arthritis; 14.10B, for Sjögren's syndrome; and 14.11I, for HIV infection.
2. When we use one of the listings cited in 14.00I1, we will consider all relevant information in your case record to determine the full impact of your immune system disorder on your ability to function on a sustained basis. Important factors we will consider when we evaluate your functioning under these listings include, but are not limited to: Your symptoms, the frequency and duration of manifestations of your immune system disorder, periods of exacerbation and remission, and the functional impact of your treatment, including the side effects of your medication.
3. As used in these listings, “repeated” means that the manifestations occur on an average of three times a year, or once every 4 months, each lasting 2 weeks or more; or the manifestations do not last for 2 weeks but occur substantially more frequently than three times in a year or once every 4 months; or they occur less frequently than an average of three times a year or once every 4 months but last substantially longer than 2 weeks. Your impairment will satisfy this criterion regardless of whether you have the same kind of manifestation repeatedly, all different manifestations, or any other combination of manifestations; for example, two of the same kind of manifestation and a different one. You must have the required number of manifestations with the frequency and duration required in this section. Also, the manifestations must occur within the period covered by your claim.
4. To satisfy the functional criterion in a listing, your immune system disorder must result in a “marked” level of limitation in one of three general areas of functioning: Activities of daily living, social functioning, or difficulties in completing tasks due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace. Functional limitation may result from the impact of the disease process itself on your mental functioning, physical functioning, or both your mental and physical functioning. This could result from persistent or intermittent symptoms, such as depression, severe fatigue, or pain, resulting in a limitation of your ability to do a task, to concentrate, to persevere at a task, or to perform the task at an acceptable rate of speed. You may also have limitations because of your treatment and its side effects (see 14.00G).
5.
Marked
limitation means that the signs and symptoms of your immune system disorder interfere
seriously
with your ability to function. Although we do not require the use of such a scale, “marked” would be the fourth point on a five-point scale consisting of no limitation, mild limitation, moderate limitation, marked limitation, and extreme limitation. You may have a marked limitation when several activities or functions are impaired, or even when only one is impaired. Also, you need not be totally precluded from performing an activity to have a marked limitation, as long as the degree of limitation seriously interferes with your ability to function independently, appropriately, and effectively. The term “marked” does not imply that you must be confined to bed, hospitalized, or in a nursing home.
6.
Activities of daily living
include, but are not limited to, such activities as doing household chores, grooming and hygiene, using a post office, taking public transportation, or paying bills. We will find that you have a “marked” limitation of activities of daily living if you have a serious limitation in your ability to maintain a household or take public transportation because of symptoms, such as pain, severe fatigue, anxiety, or difficulty concentrating, caused by your immune system disorder (including manifestations of the disorder) or its treatment, even if you are able to perform some self-care activities.
7.
Social functioning
includes the capacity to interact independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis with others. It includes the ability to communicate effectively with others. We will find that you have a “marked” limitation in maintaining social functioning if you have a serious limitation in social interaction on a sustained basis because of symptoms, such as pain, severe fatigue, anxiety, or difficulty concentrating, or a pattern of exacerbation and remission, caused by your immune system disorder (including manifestations of the disorder) or its treatment, even if you are able to communicate with close friends or relatives.
8.
Completing tasks in a timely manner
involves the ability to sustain concentration,
persistence, or pace to permit timely completion of tasks commonly found in work settings. We will find that you have a “marked” limitation in completing tasks if you have a serious limitation in your ability to sustain concentration or pace adequate to complete work-related tasks because of symptoms, such as pain, severe fatigue, anxiety, or difficulty concentrating, caused by your immune system disorder (including manifestations of the disorder) or its treatment, even if you are able to do some routine activities of daily living.

# J. How do we evaluate your immune system disorder when it does not meet one of these listings?
1. These listings are only examples of immune system disorders that we consider severe enough to prevent you from doing any gainful activity. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. Individuals with immune system disorders, including HIV infection, may manifest signs or symptoms of a mental impairment or of another physical impairment. For example, HIV infection may accelerate the onset of conditions such as diabetes or affect the course of or treatment options for diseases such as cardiovascular disease or hepatitis. We may evaluate these impairments under the affected body system.
3. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. (See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926.) If it does not, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to engage in substantial gainful activity. Therefore, we proceed to the fourth, and if necessary, the fifth steps of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920. We use the rules in §§ 404.1594, 416.994, and 416.994a as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.
14.01
Category of Impairments, Immune System Disorders.
14.02
Systemic lupus erythematosus.
As described in 14.00D1. With:
A. Involvement of two or more organs/body systems, with:
1. One of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity; and
2. At least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss).
or
B. Repeated manifestations of SLE, with at least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss) and one of the following at the marked level:
1. Limitation of activities of daily living.
2. Limitation in maintaining social functioning.
3. Limitation in completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace.
14.03
Systemic vasculitis.
As described in 14.00D2. With:
A. Involvement of two or more organs/body systems, with:
1. One of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity; and
2. At least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss).
or
B. Repeated manifestations of systemic vasculitis, with at least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss) and one of the following at the marked level:
1. Limitation of activities of daily living.
2. Limitation in maintaining social functioning.
3. Limitation in completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace.
14.04
Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma).
As described in 14.00D3. With:
A. Involvement of two or more organs/body systems, with:
1. One of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity; and
2. At least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss).
or
B. One of the following:
1. Toe contractures or fixed deformity of one or both feet and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
a. A documented medical need (see 14.00C6) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)); or
b. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 14.00C7), and a documented medical need (see 14.00C6) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 1.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 1.00C6e(ii)); or
2. Finger contractures or fixed deformity in both hands and medical documentation of an inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 14.00C7); or
3. Atrophy with irreversible damage in one or both lower extremities and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
a. A documented medical need (see 14.00C6) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)); or
b. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 14.00C7), and a documented medical need (see 14.00C6) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 1.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 1.00C6e(ii)); or
4. Atrophy with irreversible damage in
both
upper extremities and medical documentation of an inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 14.00C7); or
C. Raynaud's phenomenon, characterized by:
1. Gangrene involving at least two extremities; or
2. Ischemia with ulcerations of toes or fingers and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
a. A documented medical need (see 14.00C6) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)); or
b. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 14.00C7), and a documented medical need (see 14.00C6) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 1.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 1.00C6e(ii)); or
c. An inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 14.00C7); or
D. Repeated manifestations of systemic sclerosis (scleroderma), with at least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss) and one of the following at the marked level:
1. Limitation of activities of daily living.
2. Limitation in maintaining social functioning.
3. Limitation in completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace.
14.05
Polymyositis and dermatomyositis.
As described in 14.00D4. With:
A. Proximal limb-girdle (pelvic or shoulder) muscle weakness and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
1. A documented medical need (see 14.00C6) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)); or
2. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 14.00C7), and a documented medical need (see 14.00C6) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 1.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 1.00C6e(ii)); or
3. An inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 14.00C7); or
B. Impaired swallowing (dysphagia) with aspiration due to muscle weakness.
or
C. Impaired respiration due to intercostal and diaphragmatic muscle weakness.
or
D. Diffuse calcinosis with limitation of joint mobility or intestinal motility.
or
E. Repeated manifestations of polymyositis or dermatomyositis, with at least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss) and one of the following at the marked level:
1. Limitation of activities of daily living.
2. Limitation in maintaining social functioning.
3. Limitation in completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace.
14.06
Undifferentiated and mixed connective tissue disease.
As described in 14.00D5. With:
A. Involvement of two or more organs/body systems, with:
1. One of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity; and
2. At least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss).
or
B. Repeated manifestations of undifferentiated or mixed connective tissue disease, with at least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss) and one of the following at the marked level:
1. Limitation of activities of daily living.
2. Limitation in maintaining social functioning.
3. Limitation in completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace.
14.07
Immune deficiency disorders, excluding HIV infection.
As described in 14.00E. With:
A. One or more of the following infections. The infection(s) must either be resistant to treatment or require hospitalization or intravenous treatment three or more times in a 12-month period.
1. Sepsis; or
2. Meningitis; or
3. Pneumonia; or
4. Septic arthritis; or
5. Endocarditis; or
6. Sinusitis documented by appropriate medically acceptable imaging.
or
B. Stem cell transplantation as described under 14.00E3. Consider under a disability until at least 12 months from the date of transplantation. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
or
C. Repeated manifestations of an immune deficiency disorder, with at least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss) and one of the following at the marked level:
1. Limitation of activities of daily living.
2. Limitation in maintaining social function.
3. Limitation in completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace.
14.08 [Reserved]
14.09
Inflammatory arthritis.
As described in 14.00D6. With:
A. Persistent inflammation or persistent deformity of:
1. One or more major joints in a lower extremity (see 14.00C8) and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
a. A documented medical need (see 14.00C6) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)); or
b. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 14.00C7), and a documented medical need (see 14.00C6) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 1.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 1.00C6e(ii)); or
2. One or more major joints in each upper extremity (see 14.00C8) and medical documentation of an inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 14.00C7); or
B. Inflammation or deformity in one or more major joints of an upper or a lower extremity (see 14.00C8) with:
1. Involvement of two or more organs/body systems with one of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity; and
2. At least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss).
or
C. Ankylosing spondylitis or other spondyloarthropathies, with:
1. Ankylosis (fixation) of the dorsolumbar or cervical spine as shown by appropriate medically acceptable imaging and measured on physical examination at 45° or more of flexion from the vertical position (zero degrees); or
2. Ankylosis (fixation) of the dorsolumbar or cervical spine as shown by appropriate medically acceptable imaging and measured on physical examination at 30° or more of flexion (but less than 45°) measured from the vertical position (zero degrees), and involvement of two or more organs/body systems with one of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity.
or
D. Repeated manifestations of inflammatory arthritis, with at least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss) and one of the following at the marked level:
1. Limitation of activities of daily living.
2. Limitation in maintaining social functioning.
3. Limitation in completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace.
14.10
Sjögren's syndrome.
As described in 14.00D7. With:
A. Involvement of two or more organs/body systems, with:
1. One of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity; and
2. At least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss).
or
B. Repeated manifestations of Sjögren's syndrome, with at least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss) and one of the following at the marked level:
1. Limitation of activities of daily living.
2. Limitation in maintaining social functioning.
3. Limitation in completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace.
14.11
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
With documentation as described in 14.00F1 and one of the following:
A. Multicentric (not localized or unicentric) Castleman disease affecting multiple groups of lymph nodes or organs containing lymphoid tissue (see 14.00F3a).
OR
B. Primary central nervous system lymphoma (see 14.00F3b).
OR
C. Primary effusion lymphoma (see 14.00F3c).
OR
D. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (see 14.00F3d).
OR
E. Pulmonary Kaposi sarcoma (see 14.00F3e).
OR
F. Absolute CD4 count of 50 cells/mm
3
or less (see 14.00F4).
OR
G. Absolute CD4 count of less than 200 cells/mm
3
or CD4 percentage of less than 14 percent,
and
one of the following (values do not have to be measured on the same date) (see 14.00F5):
1. BMI measurement of less than 18.5; or
2. Hemoglobin measurement of less than 8.0 grams per deciliter (g/dL).
OR
H. Complication(s) of HIV infection requiring at least three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and at least 30 days apart (see 14.00F6). Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, including hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization.
OR
I. Repeated (as defined in 14.00I3) manifestations of HIV infection, including those listed in 14.11A-H, but without the requisite findings for those listings (for example, Kaposi sarcoma not meeting the criteria in 14.11E), or other manifestations (including, but not limited to, cardiovascular disease (including myocarditis, pericardial effusion, pericarditis, endocarditis, or pulmonary arteritis), diarrhea, distal sensory polyneuropathy, glucose intolerance, gynecologic conditions (including cervical cancer or pelvic inflammatory disease, see 14.00F7), hepatitis, HIV-associated dementia, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS), infections (bacterial, fungal, parasitic, or viral), lipodystrophy (lipoatrophy or lipohypertrophy), malnutrition, muscle weakness, myositis, neurocognitive or other mental limitations not meeting the criteria in 12.00, oral hairy leukoplakia, osteoporosis, pancreatitis, peripheral neuropathy) resulting in significant, documented symptoms or signs (for example, but not limited to, fever, headaches, insomnia, involuntary weight loss, malaise, nausea, night sweats, pain, severe fatigue, or vomiting) and one of the following at the marked level:
1. Limitation of activities of daily living.
2. Limitation in maintaining social functioning.
3. Limitation in completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace.

# Part B
Medical criteria for the evaluation of impairments of children under age 18 (where criteria in part A do not give appropriate consideration to the particular disease process in childhood).
Sec.
100.00 Low Birth Weight and Failure to Thrive.
101.00 Musculoskeletal Disorders.
102.00 Special Senses and Speech.
103.00 Respiratory Disorders.
104.00 Cardiovascular System.
105.00 Digestive Disorders
106.00 Genitourinary Disorders.
107.00 Hematological Disorders.
108.00 Skin Disorders
109.00 Endocrine Disorders.
110.00 Congenital Disorders That Affect Multiple Body Systems.
111.00 Neurological Disorders.
112.00 Mental Disorders.
113.00 Cancer (Malignant Neoplastic Diseases)
114.00 Immune System Disorders.

# 100.00 Low Birth Weight and Failure to Thrive
A.
What conditions do we evaluate under these listings?
We evaluate low birth weight (LBW) in infants from birth to attainment of age 1 and failure to thrive (FTT) in infants and toddlers from birth to attainment of age 3.
B.
How do we evaluate disability based on LBW under 100.04?
In 100.04A and 100.04B, we use an infant's birth weight as documented by an original or certified copy of the infant's birth certificate or by a medical record signed by a physician.
Birth weight
means the first weight recorded after birth. In 100.04B,
gestational age
is the infant's age based on the date of conception as recorded in the medical record. If the infant's impairment meets the requirements for listing 100.04A or 100.04B, we will follow the rule in § 416.990(b)(11) of this chapter.
C.
How do we evaluate disability based on FTT under 100.05?
1.
General.
We establish FTT with or without a known cause when we have documentation of an infant's or a toddler's growth failure and developmental delay from an acceptable medical source(s) as defined in § 416.913(a) of this chapter. We require documentation of growth measurements in
100.05A and developmental delay described in 100.05B or 100.05C within the same consecutive 12-month period. The dates of developmental testing and reports may be different from the dates of growth measurements. After the attainment of age 3, we evaluate growth failure under the affected body system(s).
2.
Growth failure.
Under 100.05A, we use the appropriate table(s) under 105.08B in the digestive system to determine whether a child's growth is less than the third percentile. The child does not need to have a digestive disorder for purposes of 100.05.
a. For children from birth to attainment of age 2, we use the weight-for-length table corresponding to the child's gender (Table I or Table II).
b. For children age 2 to attainment of age 3, we use the body mass index (BMI)-for-age table corresponding to the child's gender (Table III or Table IV).
c. BMI is the ratio of a child's weight to the square of his or her height. We calculate BMI using the formulas in the digestive disorders body system (105.00).
d.
Growth measurements.
The weight-for-length measurements for children from birth to the attainment of age 2 and BMI-for-age measurements for children age 2 to attainment of age 3 that are required for this listing must be obtained within a 12-month period and at least 60 days apart. If a child attains age 2 during the evaluation period, additional measurements are not needed. Any measurements taken before the child attains age 2 can be used to evaluate the impairment under the appropriate listing for the child's age. If the child attains age 3 during the evaluation period, the measurements can be used to evaluate the impairment in the affected body system.
3.
Developmental delay.
a. Under 100.05B and C, we use reports from acceptable medical sources to establish delay in a child's development.
b. Under 100.05B, we document the severity of developmental delay with results from a standardized developmental assessment, which compares a child's level of development to the level typically expected for his or her chronological age. If the child was born prematurely, we may use the corrected chronological age (CCA) for comparison. (See § 416.924b(b) of this chapter.) CCA is the chronological age adjusted by a period of gestational prematurity. CCA = (chronological age)—(number of weeks premature). Acceptable medical sources or early intervention specialists, physical or occupational therapists, and other sources may conduct standardized developmental assessments and developmental screenings. The results of these tests and screenings must be accompanied by a statement or records from an acceptable medical source who established the child has a developmental delay.
c. Under 100.05C, when there are no results from a standardized developmental assessment in the case record, we need narrative developmental reports from the child's medical sources in sufficient detail to assess the severity of his or her developmental delay. A narrative developmental report is based on clinical observations, progress notes, and well-baby check-ups. To meet the requirements for 100.05C, the report must include: The child's developmental history; examination findings (with abnormal findings noted on repeated examinations); and an overall assessment of the child's development (that is, more than one or two isolated skills) by the medical source. Some narrative developmental reports may include results from developmental screening tests, which can identify a child who is not developing or achieving skills within expected timeframes. Although medical sources may refer to screening test results as supporting evidence in the narrative developmental report, screening test results alone cannot establish a diagnosis or the severity of developmental delay.
D.
How do we evaluate disorders that do not meet one of these listings?
1. We may find infants disabled due to other disorders when their birth weights are greater than 1200 grams but less than 2000 grams and their weight and gestational age do not meet listing 100.04. The most common disorders of prematurity and LBW include retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), chronic lung disease of infancy (CLD, previously known as bronchopulmonary dysplasia, or BPD), intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC), and periventricular leukomalacia (PVL). Other disorders include poor nutrition and growth failure, hearing disorders, seizure disorders, cerebral palsy, and developmental disorders. We evaluate these disorders under the affected body systems.
2. We may evaluate infants and toddlers with growth failure that is associated with a known medical disorder under the body system of that medical disorder, for example, the respiratory or digestive body systems.
3. If an infant or toddler has a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet the criteria of any listing, we must also consider whether the child has an impairment(s) that medically equals a listing (see § 416.926 of this chapter). If the child's impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, we will determine whether the child's impairment(s) functionally equals the listings (see § 416.926a of this chapter) considering the factors in § 416.924a of this chapter. We use the rule in § 416.994a of this chapter when we decide whether a child continues to be disabled.
100.01 Category of Impairments, Low Birth Weight and Failure to Thrive
100.04
Low birth weight in infants from birth to attainment of age 1.
A. Birth weight (see 100.00B) of less than 1200 grams.
OR
B. The following gestational age and birth weight:
Gestational age
(in weeks)
Birth weight
37-40
2000 grams or less.
36
1875 grams or less.
35
1700 grams or less.
34
1500 grams or less.
33
1325 grams or less.
32
1250 grams or less.
100.05
Failure to thrive in children from birth to attainment of age 3
(see 100.00C), documented by A and B, or A and C.
A. Growth failure as required in 1 or 2:
1.
For children from birth to attainment of age 2,
three weight-for-length measurements that are:
a. Within a consecutive 12-month period; and
b. At least 60 days apart; and
c. Less than the third percentile on the appropriate weight-for-length table in listing 105.08B1; or
2.
For children age 2 to attainment of age 3,
three BMI-for-age measurements that are:
a. Within a consecutive 12-month period; and
b. At least 60 days apart; and
c. Less than the third percentile on the appropriate BMI-for-age table in listing 105.08B2.
AND
B. Developmental delay (see 100.00C1 and C3), established by an acceptable medical source and documented by findings from one current report of a standardized developmental assessment (see 100.00C3b) that:
1. Shows development not more than two-thirds of the level typically expected for the child's age; or
2. Results in a valid score that is at least two standard deviations below the mean.
OR
C. Developmental delay (see 100.00C3), established by an acceptable medical source and documented by findings from two narrative developmental reports (see 100.00C3c) that:
1. Are dated at least 120 days apart (see 100.00C1); and
2. Indicate current development not more than two-thirds of the level typically expected for the child's age.

# 101.00 Musculoskeletal Disorders
A.
Which musculoskeletal disorders do we evaluate under these listings?
1. We evaluate disorders of the skeletal spine (vertebral column) or of the upper or lower extremities that affect musculoskeletal functioning under these listings. We use the term “skeletal” when we are referring to the structure of the bony skeleton. The
skeletal spine
refers to the bony structures, ligaments, and discs making up the spine. We refer to the skeletal spine in some musculoskeletal listings to differentiate it from the
neurological spine
(see 101.00B1). Musculoskeletal disorders may be congenital or acquired, and may include deformities, amputations, or other abnormalities. These disorders may involve the bones or major joints; or the tendons, ligaments, muscles, or other soft tissues.
2. We evaluate soft tissue injuries (including burns) or abnormalities that are under continuing surgical management (see 101.00P1). The injuries or abnormalities may affect any part of the body, including the face and skull.
3. We evaluate curvatures of the skeletal spine that affect musculoskeletal functioning under 101.15. If a curvature of the skeletal spine is under continuing surgical management (see 101.00P1), we will evaluate it under 101.21 using our rules for determining medical equivalence. See § 416.926 of this chapter.
B.
Which related disorders do we evaluate under other listings?
1. We evaluate a disorder or injury of the skeletal spine that results in damage to, and neurological dysfunction of, the spinal cord and its associated nerves (for example, paraplegia or quadriplegia) under the listings in 111.00.
2. We evaluate inflammatory arthritis (for example, rheumatoid arthritis) under the listings in 114.00.
3. We evaluate curvatures of the skeletal spine that interfere with your ability to breathe under the listings in 103.00, impair myocardial function under the listings in 104.00, or result in social withdrawal or depression under the listings in 112.00.
4. We evaluate non-healing or pathological fractures due to cancer, whether it is a primary site or metastases, under the listings in 113.00.
5. We evaluate the leg pain associated with peripheral vascular claudication under the listings in 104.00.
6. We evaluate burns that do not require continuing surgical management under the listings in 108.00.
C.
What evidence do we need to evaluate your musculoskeletal disorder?
1.
General.
We need objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source to establish that you have a medically determinable musculoskeletal disorder. We also need evidence from both medical and nonmedical sources, who can describe how you function, to assess the severity and duration of your musculoskeletal disorder. We will determine the extent and kinds of evidence we need from medical and nonmedical sources
based on the individual facts about your disorder. For our basic rules on evidence, see §§ 416.912, 416.913, and 416.920b of this chapter. For our rules on evidence about your symptoms, see § 416.929 of this chapter.
2.
Physical examination report(s).
In the report(s) of your physical examination, we require a medical source's detailed description of the orthopedic, neurologic, or other objective clinical findings appropriate to your specific musculoskeletal disorder from his or her direct observations during your physical examination. We will not accept a report of your statements about your symptoms and limitations in place of the medical source's report of objective clinical findings. We will not use findings on imaging or other diagnostic tests (see 101.00C3) as a substitute for findings on physical examination.
a. When the medical source reports that a clinical test sign(s) is positive, unless we have evidence to the contrary, we will assume that he or she performed the test properly and accept the medical source's interpretation of the test. For example, we will assume a straight-leg raising test was conducted properly (that is, in sitting and supine positions), even if the medical source does not specify the positions in which the test was performed.
b. If you use an assistive device (see 101.00C6), the report must support the medical need for the device.
c. If your musculoskeletal disorder causes a reduction in muscle strength, the report must document measurement of the strength of the muscle(s) in question. The measurement should be based on a muscle strength grading system that is considered medically acceptable based on your age and impairments. For example, a grading system of 0 to 5, with 0 indicating complete loss of strength and 5 indicating maximum strength or equivalent medically acceptable scale (see Table 1). Reduction in muscle strength is demonstrated by evidence that your muscle strength is less than active range of motion (ROM) against gravity with maximum resistance. If the reduction in muscle strength involves one or both of your hands, the report must also document measurements of grip and pinch strength.
Table 1—Grading System of Muscle Function
Grade
Function of the muscle
0—None
No visible or palpable contraction.
1—Trace
Visible or palpable contraction with no motion.
2—Poor
Active ROM with gravity eliminated.
3—Fair
Active ROM against gravity only, without resistance.
4—Good
Active ROM against gravity, moderate resistance.
5—Normal
Active ROM against gravity, maximum resistance.
3.
Imaging and other diagnostic tests.
a.
Imaging
refers to medical imaging techniques, such as x-ray, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and radionuclide scanning. For the purpose of these listings, the imaging must be consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice as the proper technique to support the evaluation of the disorder.
b. Findings on imaging must have lasted, or be expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
c. Imaging and other diagnostic tests can provide evidence of physical abnormalities; however, these abnormalities may correlate poorly with your symptoms, including pain, or with your musculoskeletal functioning. Accordingly, we will not use findings on imaging or other diagnostic tests as a substitute for findings on physical examination about your ability to function, nor can we infer severity or functional limitations based solely on such tests.
d. For our rules on purchasing imaging and other diagnostic tests, see §§ 416.919k and 416.919m of this chapter.
4.
Operative reports.
If you have had a surgical procedure, we need a copy of the operative report, including details of the findings at surgery and information about any medical complications that may have occurred. If we do not have the operative report, we need confirmatory evidence of the surgical procedure from a medical source (for example, detailed follow-up reports or notations in the medical records concerning the surgical procedure in your medical history).
5.
Effects of treatment.
a.
General.
Treatments for musculoskeletal disorders may have beneficial or adverse effects, and responses to treatment vary from person to person. We will evaluate all of the effects of treatment (including surgical treatment, medications, and therapy) on the symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings of your musculoskeletal disorder, and on your musculoskeletal functioning.
b.
Response to treatment.
To evaluate your musculoskeletal functioning in response to treatment, we need the following: A description, including the frequency of the administration, of your medications; the type and frequency of therapy you receive; and a description of your response to treatment and
any complications you experience related to your musculoskeletal disorder. The effects of treatment may be temporary or long-term. We need information over a sufficient period to determine the effects of treatment on your current musculoskeletal functioning and permit reasonable projections about your future functioning. We will determine the amount of time that constitutes a sufficient period in consultation with a medical consultant on a case by case basis. In some cases, we will need additional evidence to make an assessment about your response to treatment. Your musculoskeletal disorder may meet or medically equal one of these listings regardless of whether you were prescribed opioid medication, or whether you were prescribed opioid medication and did not follow this prescribed treatment.
6.
Assistive devices.
a.
General.
An assistive device, for the purposes of these listings, is any device that you use to improve your stability, dexterity, or mobility. An assistive device can be worn (see 101.00C6b and 101.00C6c), hand-held (see 101.00C6d), or used in a seated position (see 101.00C6e). When we use the phrase “documented medical need,” we mean that there is evidence from a medical source that supports your medical need for an assistive device (see 101.00C2b) for a continuous period of at least 12 months (see 101.00c2a). This evidence must describe any limitation(s) in your upper or lower extremity functioning and the circumstances for which you need to use the assistive device. We do not require that you have a specific prescription for the assistive device.
b.
Prosthesis(es).
A prosthesis is a wearable device, such as an artificial limb, that takes the place of an absent body part. If you have a prosthesis(es), we need evidence from a medical source documenting your ability to walk, or perform fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4), with the prosthesis(es) in place. When amputation(s) involves one or both lower extremities, it is not necessary for the medical source to evaluate your ability to walk without the prosthesis(es) in place. If you cannot use your prosthesis(es) due to complications affecting your residual limb(s), we need evidence from a medical source documenting the condition of your residual limb(s) and the medical basis for your inability to use the device(s).
c.
Orthosis(es).
An orthosis is a wearable device, such as a brace, that prevents or corrects a dysfunction or deformity by aligning or supporting the affected body part. If you have an orthosis(es), we need evidence from a medical source documenting your ability to walk, or perform fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4), with the orthosis(es) in place. If you cannot use your orthosis(es), we need evidence from a medical source documenting the medical basis for your inability to use the device(s).
d.
Hand-held assistive devices.
Hand-held assistive devices include walkers, canes, or crutches, which you hold onto with your hand(s) to support or aid you in walking. When you use a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (such as a cane) with one upper extremity to walk and you cannot use your other upper extremity for fine or gross movements (see 101.00E4), the need for the assistive device limits the use of both upper extremities. If you use a hand-held assistive device, we need evidence from a medical source describing how you walk with the device.
e.
Wheeled and seated mobility devices.
Wheeled and seated mobility devices are assistive devices that you use in a seated position, such as manual wheelchairs, motorized wheelchairs, rollators, and power operated vehicles. If you use a wheeled and seated mobility device, we need evidence from a medical source describing the type of wheeled and seated mobility device that you use and how you use the assistive device, including any customizations or modifications to the assistive device itself or for your use of the assistive device. For example, if you use a wheelchair that typically requires the use of both hands but has been customized for your use with one hand, then we will evaluate your use of the assistive device using the criteria in 101.00E3b and not 101.00E3a.
(i)
Wheeled and seated mobility devices involving the use of both hands.
Some wheeled and seated mobility devices involve the use of both hands to use the assistive device (for example, most manual wheelchairs). If you use a wheeled and seated mobility device that involves the use of both hands, then the need for the assistive device limits the use of both upper extremities.
(ii)
Wheeled and seated devices involving the use of one hand.
Some wheeled and seated mobility devices involve the use of one hand to use the assistive device (for example, most motorized wheelchairs). If you use a wheeled and seated mobility device that involves the use of one upper extremity and you cannot use your other upper extremity for fine or gross movements (see 101.00E4), then the need for the assistive device limits the use of both upper extremities.
7.
Longitudinal evidence.
a. The term
pandemic period
as used in 101.00C7c means the period beginning on April 2, 2021, and ending on May 11, 2025. The term
post-pandemic evaluation period
as used in 101.00C7c means the period beginning on May 12, 2025, and ending on May 11, 2029.
b. We generally need a longitudinal medical record to assess the severity and duration of your musculoskeletal disorder because the severity of symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings related to most musculoskeletal disorders may improve over time or
respond to treatment. Evidence over an extended period will show whether your musculoskeletal functioning is improving, worsening, or unchanging.
c. For 101.15, 101.16, 101.17, 101.18, 101.20C, 101.20D, 101.22, and 101.23, all of the required criteria must be present simultaneously, or within a close proximity of time, to satisfy the level of severity needed to meet the listing. The phrase “within a close proximity of time” means that all of the relevant criteria must appear in the medical record within a consecutive 4-month period, except for claims determined or decided during the pandemic period or post-pandemic evaluation period. For claims determined or decided during the pandemic period or post-pandemic evaluation period, all of the relevant criteria must appear in the medical record within a consecutive 12-month period. When the criterion is imaging, we mean that we could reasonably expect the findings on imaging to have been present at the date of impairment or date of onset. For listings that use the word “and” to link the elements of the required criteria, the medical record must establish the simultaneous presence, or presence within a close proximity of time, of all the required medical criteria. Once this level of severity is established, the medical record must also show that this level of severity has continued, or is expected to continue, for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
8.
Surgical treatment or physical therapy.
For some musculoskeletal disorders, a medical source may recommend surgery, or physical therapy (PT). If you have not yet had the recommended surgery or PT, we will not assume that these interventions will resolve your disorder or improve your functioning. We will assess each case on an individual basis. Depending on your response to treatment, or your medical sources' treatment plans, we may defer our findings regarding the effect of surgery or PT, until a sufficient period has passed to permit proper consideration or judgment about your future functioning. When necessary, we will follow the rules on following prescribed treatment in § 416.930 of this chapter, including consideration of your reasons for failure to follow prescribed treatment.
D.
How do we consider symptoms, including pain, under these listings?
1. Musculoskeletal disorders may cause pain or other symptoms; however, your statements about your pain or other symptoms will not alone establish that you are disabled. We will not substitute an alleged or a reported increase in the intensity of a symptom, such as pain, no matter how severe, for a medical sign or diagnostic finding present in the listing criteria. Pain is included as just one consideration in 101.15A, 101.16A, and 101.18A, but it is not required to satisfy the criteria in 101.15, 101.16, and 101.18.
2. To consider your symptom(s), we require objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source showing the existence of a medically determinable musculoskeletal impairment that we could reasonably expect to produce the symptom(s). See § 416.929 of this chapter for how we evaluate symptoms, including pain, related to your musculoskeletal disorder.
E.
How do we use the functional criteria to evaluate your musculoskeletal disorder under these listings?
1.
General.
The functional criteria for children age 3 and older are based on impairment-related physical limitations in your ability to use both upper extremities, one or both lower extremities, or a combination of one upper and one lower extremity. We will use the relevant evidence that we have to compare your musculoskeletal functioning to the functioning of children your age who do not have impairments. The required impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning must have lasted, or be expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months. We do not use the functional criteria in 101.20A, 101.20B, 101.21, or 101.24.
2.
Medical and functional criteria, birth to attainment of age 3.
The medical and functional criteria for children in this age group are in 101.24.
3.
Functional criteria, age 3 to attainment of age 18.
The functional criteria are based on impairment-related physical limitations in your ability to use both upper extremities, one or both lower extremities, or a combination of one upper and one lower extremity. A musculoskeletal disorder satisfies the functional criteria of a listing when the medical documentation shows the presence of at least one of the impairment-related limitations cited in the listing. The functional criteria require impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or can be expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months, medically documented by one of the following:
a. A documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i));
b. An inability to use one upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4), and a documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) that requires the use of your other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii));
c. An inability to use both upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used
to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4).
4.
Fine and gross movements. Fine
movements, for the purposes of these listings, involve use of your wrists, hands, and fingers; such movements include picking, pinching, manipulating, and fingering.
Gross
movements involve use of your shoulders, upper arms, forearms, and hands; such movements include handling, gripping, grasping, holding, turning, and reaching. Gross movements also include exertional abilities such as lifting, carrying, pushing, and pulling.
F.
What do we consider when we evaluate disorders of the skeletal spine resulting in compromise of a nerve root(s) (101.15)?
1.
General.
We consider musculoskeletal disorders such as skeletal dysplasias, caudal regression syndrome, tethered spinal cord syndrome, vertebral slippage (spondylolisthesis), scoliosis, and vertebral fracture or dislocation. Spinal disorders may cause cervical or lumbar spine dysfunction when abnormalities of the skeletal spine compromise nerve roots of the cervical spine, a nerve root of the lumbar spine, or a nerve root of both cervical and lumbar spines. We consider spinal nerve disorders that originate in the nervous system (for example, spinal arachnoiditis), under the neurological disorders body system, 111.00.
2.
Compromise of a nerve root(s).
Compromise of a nerve root, sometimes referred to as “nerve root impingement,” is a phrase used when a physical object, such as a tumor, herniated disc, foreign body, or arthritic spur, is pushing on the nerve root as seen on imaging or during surgery. It can occur when a musculoskeletal disorder produces irritation, inflammation, or compression of the nerve root(s) as it exits the skeletal spine between the vertebrae. Related symptoms must be associated with, or follow the path of, the affected nerve root(s).
a.
Compromise of unilateral nerve root of the cervical spine.
Compromise of a nerve root as it exits the cervical spine between the vertebrae may affect the functioning of the associated upper extremity. The physical examination reproduces the related symptoms based on radicular signs and clinical tests appropriate to the specific cervical nerve root (for example, a positive Spurling test).
b.
Compromise of bilateral nerve roots of the cervical spine.
Although uncommon, if compromise of a nerve root occurs on both sides of the cervical spinal column, functioning of both upper extremities may be limited.
c.
Compromise of a nerve root(s) of the lumbar spine.
Compromise of a nerve root as it exits the lumbar spine between the vertebrae may limit the functioning of the associated lower extremity. The physical examination reproduces the related symptoms based on radicular signs and clinical tests. When a nerve root of the lumbar spine is compromised, we require a positive straight-leg raising test (also known as a Lasègue test) in both supine and sitting positions appropriate to the specific lumbar nerve root that is compromised.
G.
What do we consider when we evaluate lumbar spinal stenosis resulting in compromise of the cauda equina (101.16)?
1.
General.
We consider how pain, sensory changes, and muscle weakness caused by compromise of the cauda equina due to lumbar spinal stenosis affect your functioning. The cauda equina is a bundle of nerve roots that descends from the lower part of the spinal cord. Lumbar spinal stenosis can compress the nerves of the cauda equina, causing sensory changes and muscle weakness that may affect your ability to stand or walk. Pain related to compromise of the cauda equina is nonradicular because it is not typically associated with a specific nerve root (as is radicular pain in the cervical or lumbar spine).
2.
Compromise of the cauda equina
due to lumbar spinal stenosis can affect your ability to walk or stand because of neurogenic claudication (also known as pseudoclaudication), a condition usually causing nonradicular pain that starts in the low back and radiates bilaterally (or less commonly, unilaterally) into the buttocks and lower extremities (or extremity). Extension of the lumbar spine, which occurs when you walk or stand, may provoke the pain of neurogenic claudication. The pain may be relieved by forward flexion of the lumbar spine or by sitting. In contrast, the leg pain associated with peripheral vascular claudication results from inadequate arterial blood flow to a lower extremity. It occurs repeatedly and consistently when a person walks a certain distance and is relieved when the person rests.
H.
What do we consider when we evaluate reconstructive surgery or surgical arthrodesis of a major weight-bearing joint (101.17)?
1.
General.
We consider reconstructive surgery or surgical arthrodesis when an acceptable medical source(s) documents the surgical procedure(s) and associated medical treatments to restore function of, or eliminate motion in, the affected major weight-bearing joint(s). Reconstructive surgery may be done in a single procedure or a series of procedures directed toward the salvage or restoration of functional use of the affected joint.
2.
Major weight-bearing joints
are the hip, knee, and ankle-foot. The ankle and foot are considered together as one major joint.
3.
Surgical arthrodesis
is the artificial fusion of the bones that form a joint, essentially eliminating the joint.
I.
What do we consider when we evaluate abnormality of a major joint(s) in any extremity (101.18)?
1.
General.
We consider musculoskeletal disorders that produce anatomical abnormalities of major joints of the extremities, which result in functional abnormalities in the upper or lower extremities (for example, chronic infections of bones and joints, and surgical arthrodesis of a joint). Abnormalities of the joints include ligamentous laxity or rupture, soft tissue contracture, or tendon rupture, and can cause muscle weakness of the affected joint(s).
a. An
anatomical
abnormality is one that is readily observable by a medical source during a physical examination (for example, subluxation or contracture), or is present on imaging (for example, joint space narrowing, bony destruction, ankylosis, or deformity).
b. A
functional
abnormality is abnormal motion or instability of the affected joint(s), including limitation of motion, excessive motion (hypermobility), movement outside the normal plane of motion for the joint (for example, lateral deviation), or fixation of the affected joint(s).
2.
Major joint of an upper extremity
refers to the shoulder, elbow, and wrist-hand. We consider the wrist and hand together as one major joint.
3.
Major joint of a lower extremity
refers to the hip, knee, and ankle-foot. We consider the ankle and hindfoot together as one major joint.
J.
What do we consider when we evaluate pathologic fractures due to any cause (101.19)?
We consider pathologic fractures of the bones in the skeletal spine, extremities, or other parts of the skeletal system. Pathologic fractures result from disorders that weaken the bones, making them vulnerable to breakage. Pathologic fractures may occur with osteoporosis, osteogenesis imperfecta or any other skeletal dysplasias, side effects of medications, and disorders of the endocrine or other body systems. Under 101.19, the fractures must have occurred on separate, distinct occasions, rather than multiple fractures occurring at the same time, but the fractures may affect the same bone(s) multiple times. There is no required time that must elapse between the fractures, but all three must occur within a 12-month period; for example, separate incidents may occur within hours or days of each other. We evaluate non-healing or complex traumatic fractures without accompanying pathology under 101.22 or 101.23.
K.
What do we consider when we evaluate amputation due to any cause (101.20)?
1.
General.
We consider amputation (the full or partial loss or absence of any extremity) due to any cause including trauma, congenital abnormality or absence, surgery for treatment of conditions such as cancer or infection, or complications of peripheral vascular disease or diabetes mellitus.
2.
Amputation of both upper extremities (101.20A).
Under 101.20A, we consider upper extremity amputations that occur at any level at or above the wrists (carpal joints), up to and including disarticulation of the shoulder (glenohumeral) joint. If you have had both upper extremities amputated at any level at or above the wrists up to and including the shoulder, your impairment satisfies the duration requirement in § 416.909 of this chapter. For amputations below the wrist, we will follow the rules described in 101.00R. We do not evaluate amputations below the wrists under 101.20A because the resulting limitation of function of the thumb(s), finger(s), or hand(s) will vary, depending on the extent of loss and corresponding effect on fine and gross movements.
3.
Hemipelvectomy or hip disarticulation (101.20B).
Under 101.20B, we consider hemipelvectomy, which involves amputation of an entire lower extremity through the sacroiliac joint, and hip disarticulation, which involves amputation of an entire lower extremity through the hip joint capsule and closure of the remaining musculature over the exposed acetabular bone. If you have had a hemipelvectomy or hip disarticulation, your impairment satisfies the duration requirement in § 416.909 of this chapter.
4.
Amputation of one upper extremity and one lower extremity (101.20C).
Under 101.20C, we consider the amputation of one upper extremity at any level at or above the wrist and one lower extremity at or above the ankle. If you have a documented medical need for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (such as a cane) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (such as a motorized wheelchair), then you must use your remaining upper extremity to hold the device, making the extremity unavailable to perform other fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4).
5.
Amputation of one lower extremity or both lower extremities with complications of the residual limb(s) (101.20D).
Under 101.20D, we consider the amputation of one lower extremity or both lower extremities at or above the ankle. We also consider the condition of your residual limb(s), whether you can wear a prosthesis(es) (see 101.00C6b), and whether you have a documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a hand-held assistive device(s) (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device (see 101.00C6e). If you have a non-healing residual limb(s) and are receiving ongoing surgical treatment expected to re-establish or improve function, and that ongoing surgical treatment has not ended, or is not expected to end, within at least 12 months of the initiation of the surgical management (see 101.00L), we evaluate your musculoskeletal disorder under 101.21.
L.
What do we consider when we evaluate soft tissue injury or abnormality under continuing surgical management (101.21)?
1.
General.
a. We consider any soft tissue injury or abnormality involving the soft tissues of the body, whether congenital or acquired, when an acceptable medical source(s) documents the need for ongoing surgical procedures and associated medical treatments to restore function of the affected body part(s) (see 101.00P1). Surgical management includes the surgery(ies) itself, as well as various post-surgical procedures, surgical complications, infections or other medical complications, related illnesses, or related treatments that delay your attainment of maximum benefit from therapy (see 101.00P2).
b. Surgical procedures and associated treatments typically take place over extended periods, which may render you unable to perform age-appropriate activity on a sustained basis. To document such inability, we must have evidence from an acceptable medical source(s) confirming that the surgical management has continued, or is expected to continue, for at least 12 months from the date of the first surgical intervention. These procedures and treatments must be directed toward saving, reconstructing, or replacing the affected part of the body to re-establish or improve its function, and not for cosmetic appearances alone.
c. Examples include malformations, third- and fourth-degree burns, crush injuries, craniofacial injuries, avulsive injuries, and amputations with complications of the residual limb(s).
d. We evaluate skeletal spine abnormalities or injuries under 101.15 or 101.16, as appropriate. We evaluate abnormalities or injuries of bones in the lower extremities under 101.17, 101.18, or 101.22. We evaluate abnormalities or injuries of bones in the upper extremities under 101.18 or 101.23.
2.
Documentation.
In addition to the objective medical evidence we need to establish your soft tissue injury or abnormality, we also need all of the following medically documented evidence about your continuing surgical management:
a. Operative reports and related laboratory findings;
b. Records of post-surgical procedures;
c. Records of any surgical or medical complications (for example, related infections or systemic illnesses);
d. Records of any prolonged post-operative recovery periods and related treatments (for example, surgeries and treatments for burns);
e. An acceptable medical source's plans for additional surgeries; and
f. Records detailing any other factors that have delayed, or that an acceptable medical source expects to delay, the saving, restoring, or replacing of the involved part for a continuous period of at least 12 months following the initiation of the surgical management.
3.
Burns.
Third- and fourth-degree burns damage or destroy nerve tissue, reducing or preventing transmission of signals through those nerves. Such burns frequently require multiple surgical procedures and related therapies to re-establish or improve function, which we evaluate under 101.21. When burns are no longer
under continuing surgical management
(see 101.00P1), we evaluate the residual impairment(s). When the residual impairment(s) affects the musculoskeletal system, as often occurs in third- and fourth-degree burns, it can result in permanent musculoskeletal tissue loss, joint contractures, or loss of extremities. We will evaluate such impairments under the relevant musculoskeletal disorders listing, for example, 101.18 or 101.20. When the residual impairment(s) involves another body system, we will evaluate the impairment(s) under the listings in the relevant body system(s).
4.
Craniofacial injuries or congenital abnormalities.
Surgeons may treat craniofacial injuries or congenital abnormalities with multiple surgical procedures. These injuries or abnormalities may affect vision, hearing, speech, and the initiation of the digestive process, including mastication. When the craniofacial injury-related or congenital abnormality-related residual impairment(s) involves another body system(s), we will evaluate the impairment(s) under the listings in the relevant body system(s).
M.
What do we consider when we evaluate non-healing or complex fractures of the femur, tibia, pelvis, or one or more of the talocrural bones (101.22)?
1.
Non-healing fracture.
A non-healing (nonunion) fracture is a fracture that has failed to unite completely. Nonunion is usually established when a minimum of 9 months has elapsed since the injury and the fracture site has shown no, or minimal, progressive signs of healing for a minimum of 3 months.
2.
Complex fracture.
A complex fracture is a fracture with one or more of the following:
a. Comminuted (broken into many pieces) bone fragments;
b. Multiple fractures in a single bone;
c. Bone loss due to severe trauma;
d. Damage to the surrounding soft tissue;
e. Severe cartilage damage to the associated joint; or
f. Dislocation of the associated joint.
3. When a complex fracture involves soft tissue damage, the treatment may involve continuing surgical management to restore or improve functioning. In such cases, we may evaluate the fracture(s) under 101.21.
N.
What do we consider when we evaluate non-healing or complex fractures of an upper extremity (101.23)?
1.
Non-healing fracture.
A non-healing (nonunion) fracture is a fracture that has failed to unite completely. Nonunion is usually established when a minimum of 9 months has elapsed since the injury and the fracture site
has shown no, or minimal, progressive signs of healing for a minimum of 3 months.
2.
Complex fracture.
A complex fracture is a fracture with one or more of the following:
a. Comminuted (broken into many pieces) bone fragments;
b. Multiple fractures in a single bone;
c. Bone loss due to severe trauma;
d. Damage to the surrounding soft tissue;
e. Severe cartilage damage to the associated joint; or
f. Dislocation of the associated joint.
3. When a complex fracture involves soft tissue damage, the treatment may involve continuing surgical management to restore or improve functioning. In such cases, we may evaluate the fracture(s) under 101.21.
O.
What do we consider when we evaluate musculoskeletal disorders of infants and toddlers from birth to attainment of age 3 with developmental motor delay (101.24)?
1.
General.
Under 101.24, we require reports from an acceptable medical source(s) to establish a delay in your motor development as a medically determinable impairment. Examples of disorders we evaluate under this listing include arthrogryposis, clubfoot, osteogenesis imperfecta, caudal regression syndrome, fracture complications, disorders affecting the hip and pelvis, and complications associated with your musculoskeletal disorder or its treatment. Some medical records may simply document your condition as “developmental motor delay.”
2.
Severity of developmental motor delay.
To evaluate the severity of your developmental motor delay, we need developmental test reports from an acceptable medical source, or from early intervention specialists, physical and occupational therapists, and other sources.
a. If there is a standardized developmental assessment in your medical record, we will use the results to evaluate your developmental motor delay under 101.24A. Such an assessment compares your level of development to the level typically expected for children of your chronological age. If you were born prematurely, we use your corrected chronological age for comparison. See § 416.924b(b) of this chapter.
b. If there is no standardized developmental assessment in your medical record, we will use narrative developmental reports from a medical source(s) to evaluate your developmental motor delay under 101.24B. These reports must provide detailed information sufficient for us to assess the severity of your motor delay. If we cannot obtain sufficient detail from narrative reports, we may purchase standardized developmental assessments.
(i) A narrative developmental report is based on clinical observations, progress notes, and well-baby check-ups, and must include your developmental history, examination findings (with abnormal findings noted on repeated examinations), and an overall assessment of your development (that is, more than one or two isolated skills) by the medical source.
(ii) Some narrative developmental reports may include results from developmental screening tests, which can show that you are not developing or achieving skills within expected timeframes. Although medical sources may refer to screening test results as supporting evidence in the narrative developmental report, screening test results alone cannot establish a medically determinable impairment or the severity of developmental motor delay.
P.
How will we determine whether your soft tissue injury or abnormality or your upper extremity fracture is no longer under continuing surgical management or you have received maximum benefit from therapy?
1. We will determine that your soft tissue injury or abnormality, or your upper extremity fracture, is no longer
under continuing surgical management,
as used in 101.21 and 101.23, when the last surgical procedure or medical treatment directed toward the re-establishment or improvement of function of the involved part has occurred.
2. We will determine that you have received
maximum benefit from therapy,
as used in 101.21, if there are no significant changes in physical findings or on appropriate imaging for any 6-month period after the last surgical procedure or medical treatment. We may also determine that you have received maximum benefit from therapy if your medical source(s) indicates that further improvement is not expected after the last surgical procedure or medical treatment.
3. When you have received maximum benefit from therapy, we will evaluate any impairment-related residual symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings (including those on imaging), any complications associated with your surgical procedures or medical treatments, and any residual limitations in your functioning (see 101.00R).
Q.
How do we evaluate your musculoskeletal disorder if there is no record of ongoing treatment?
1. Despite having a musculoskeletal disorder, you may not have received ongoing treatment, may have just begun treatment, may not have access to prescribed medical treatment, or may not have an ongoing relationship with the medical community. In any of these situations, you will not have a longitudinal medical record for us to review when we evaluate your disorder and we may ask you to attend a consultative examination to determine the severity and potential duration of your disorder. See § 416.919a(b) of this chapter.
2. In some instances, we may be able to assess the severity and duration of your musculoskeletal disorder based on your medical
record and current evidence alone. If the information in your case record is not sufficient to show that you have a musculoskeletal disorder that meets the criteria of one of the musculoskeletal disorders listings, we will follow the rules described in 101.00R.
R.
How do we evaluate musculoskeletal disorders that do not meet one of these listings?
1. These listings are only examples of musculoskeletal disorders that we consider severe enough to result in marked and severe functional limitations. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that meets the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. See § 416.926 of this chapter. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, we will determine whether it functionally equals the listings. See § 416.926a of this chapter.
3. We use the rules in § 416.994a of this chapter when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 101.01 Category of Impairments, Musculoskeletal Disorders
101.15
Disorders of the skeletal spine resulting in compromise of a nerve root(s)
(see 101.00F), documented by A, B, C,
and
D:
A. Neuro-anatomic (radicular) distribution of one or more of the following
symptoms
consistent with compromise of the affected nerve root(s):
1. Pain; or
2. Paresthesia; or
3. Muscle fatigue.
AND
B. Radicular distribution of neurological
signs
present during physical examination (see 101.00C2) or on a diagnostic test (see 101.00C3) and evidenced by 1, 2, and either 3 or 4:
1. Muscle weakness; and
2. Sign(s) of nerve root irritation, tension, or compression, consistent with compromise of the affected nerve root (see 101.00F2)
3. Sensory changes evidenced by:
a. Decreased sensation; or
b. Sensory nerve deficit (abnormal sensory nerve latency) on electrodiagnostic testing;
or
4. Decreased deep tendon reflexes.
AND
C. Findings on imaging (see 101.00C3) consistent with compromise of a nerve root(s) in the cervical or lumbosacral spine.
AND
D. Impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months, and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
1. A documented medical need (see 101.C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)); or
2. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4),
and
a documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii)); or
3. An inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4).
101.16
Lumbar spinal stenosis resulting in compromise of the cauda equina
(see 101.00G), documented by A, B, C,
and
D:
A. Symptom(s) of neurological compromise manifested as:
1. Nonradicular distribution of pain in one or both lower extremities; or
2. Nonradicular distribution of sensory loss in one or both lower extremities; or
3. Neurogenic claudication.
AND
B. Nonradicular neurological signs present during physical examination (see 101.00C2) or on a diagnostic test (see 101.00C3) and evidenced by 1 and either 2 or 3:
1. Muscle weakness.
2. Sensory changes evidenced by:
a. Decreased sensation; or
b. Sensory nerve deficit (abnormal sensory nerve latency) on electrodiagnostic testing; or
c. Areflexia, trophic ulceration, or bladder or bowel incontinence.
3. Decreased deep tendon reflexes in one or both lower extremities.
AND
C. Findings on imaging (see 101.00C3) or in an operative report (see 101.00C4) consistent with compromise of the cauda equina with lumbar spinal stenosis.
AND
D. Impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months, and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
1. A documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled
and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)); or
2. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4),
and
a documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii)).
101.17
Reconstructive surgery or surgical arthrodesis of a major weight-bearing joint
(see 101.00H), documented by A, B,
and
C:
A. History of reconstructive surgery or surgical arthrodesis of a major weight-bearing joint.
AND
B. Impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
AND
C. A documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)).
101.18
Abnormality of a major joint(s) in any extremity
(see 101.00I), documented by A, B, C,
and
D:
A. Chronic joint pain or stiffness.
AND
B. Abnormal motion, instability, or immobility of the affected joint(s).
AND
C. Anatomical abnormality of the affected joint(s) noted on:
1. Physical examination (for example, subluxation, contracture, or bony or fibrous ankylosis); or
2. Imaging (for example, joint space narrowing, bony destruction, or ankylosis or arthrodesis of the affected joint).
AND
D. Impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months, and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
1. A documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)); or
2. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4),
and
a documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii)); or
3. An inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4).
101.19
Pathologic fractures due to any cause
(see 101.00J), documented by A
and
B:
A. Pathologic fractures occurring on three separate occasions within a 12-month period.
AND
B. Impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months, and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
1. A documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)); or
2. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4),
and
a documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii)); or
3. An inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4).
101.20
Amputation due to any cause
(see 101.00K), documented by A, B, C,
or
D:
A. Amputation of both upper extremities, occurring at any level at or above the wrists (carpal joints), up to and including the shoulder (glenohumeral) joint.
OR
B. Hemipelvectomy or hip disarticulation.
OR
C. Amputation of one upper extremity, occurring at any level at or above the wrist (carpal joints), and amputation of one lower extremity, occurring at or above the ankle (talocrural joint),
and
medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
1. A documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)); or
2. A documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) requiring the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii)); or
3. The inability to use the remaining upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (101.00E4).
OR
D. Amputation of one or both lower extremities, occurring at or above the ankle (talocrural joint), with complications of the residual limb(s) that have lasted, or are expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months,
and
medical documentation of 1 and 2:
1. The inability to use a prosthesis(es); and
2. A documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)).
101.21
Soft tissue injury or abnormality under continuing surgical management
(see 101.00L), documented by A, B,
and
C:
A. Evidence confirms continuing surgical management (see 101.00P1) directed toward saving, reconstructing, or replacing the affected part of the body.
AND
B. The surgical management has been, or is expected to be, ongoing for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
AND
C. Maximum benefit from therapy (see 101.00P2) has not yet been achieved.
101.22
Non-healing or complex fracture of the femur, tibia, pelvis, or one or more of the talocrural bones
(see 101.00M), documented by A, B,
and
C:
A. Solid union not evident on imaging (see 101.00C3) and not clinically solid.
AND
B. Impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
AND
C. A documented medical need (see 101.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)).
101.23
Non-healing or complex fracture of an upper extremity
(see 101.00N), documented by A
and
B:
A. Nonunion or complex fracture, of the shaft of the humerus, radius, or ulna, under continuing surgical management (see 101.00P1) directed toward restoration of functional use of the extremity.
AND
B. Medical documentation of an inability to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 101.00E4) that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
101.24
Musculoskeletal disorders of infants and toddlers, from birth to attainment of age 3, with developmental motor delay
(see 101.00O), documented by A
or
B:
A. A standardized developmental motor assessment that:
1. Shows motor development not more than one-half of the level typically expected for the child's age; or
2. Results in a valid score that is at least three standard deviations below the mean.
OR
B. Two narrative developmental reports that:
1. Are dated at least 120 days apart; and
2. Indicate current motor development not more than one-half of the level typically expected for the child's age.

# 102.00 Special Senses and Speech
A.
How do we evaluate visual disorders?
1.
What are visual disorders?
Visual disorders are abnormalities of the eye, the optic nerve, the optic tracts, or the brain that may cause a loss of visual acuity or visual fields. A loss of visual acuity limits your ability to distinguish detail, read, do fine work, or perform other age-appropriate activities. A loss of visual fields limits your ability to perceive visual stimuli in the peripheral extent of vision.
2.
How do we define statutory blindness?
Statutory blindness is blindness as defined in sections 216(i)(1) and 1614(a)(2) of the Social Security Act (Act).
a. The Act defines blindness as central visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye with the use of a correcting lens. We use your best-corrected central visual acuity for distance in the better eye when we determine if this definition is met. (For visual acuity testing requirements, see 102.00A5.)
b. The Act also provides that an eye that has a visual field limitation such that the widest diameter of the visual field subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees is considered as having a central visual acuity of 20/200 or less. (For visual field testing requirements, see 102.00A6.)
c. You have statutory blindness only if your visual disorder meets the criteria of 102.02A, 102.02B, or 102.03A. You do not have statutory blindness if your visual disorder medically equals the criteria of 102.02A, 102.02B, or 102.03A or meets or medically equals the criteria of 102.03B, 102.03C, 102.04A, or 102.04B because your disability is based on criteria other than those in the statutory definition of blindness.
3.
What evidence do we need to establish statutory blindness under title XVI?
To establish that you have statutory blindness under title XVI, we need evidence showing only that your central visual acuity in your better eye or your visual field in your better eye meets the criteria in 102.00A2, provided that
those measurements are consistent with the other evidence in your case record. We do not need documentation of the cause of your blindness. Also, there is no duration requirement for statutory blindness under title XVI (see §§ 416.981 and 416.983 of this chapter).
4.
What evidence do we need to evaluate visual disorders, including those that result in statutory blindness under title II?
To evaluate your visual disorder, we usually need a report of an eye examination that includes measurements of your best-corrected central visual acuity (see 102.00A5) or the extent of your visual fields (see 102.00A6), as appropriate. If you have visual acuity or visual field loss, we need documentation of the cause of the loss. A standard eye examination will usually indicate the cause of any visual acuity loss. A standard eye examination can also indicate the cause of some types of visual field deficits. Some disorders, such as cortical visual disorders, may result in abnormalities that do not appear on a standard eye examination. If the standard eye examination does not indicate the cause of your vision loss, we will request the information used to establish the presence of your visual disorder. If your visual disorder does not satisfy the criteria in 102.02, 102.03, or 102.04, we will request a description of how your visual disorder affects your ability to function.
5.
How do we measure your best-corrected central visual acuity?
a.
Visual acuity testing.
When we need to measure your best-corrected central visual acuity, which is your optimal visual acuity attainable with the use of a corrective lens, we use visual acuity testing for distance that was carried out using Snellen methodology or any other testing methodology that is comparable to Snellen methodology.
(i) Your best-corrected central visual acuity for distance is usually measured by determining what you can see from 20 feet. If your visual acuity is measured for a distance other than 20 feet, we will convert it to a 20-foot measurement. For example, if your visual acuity is measured at 10 feet and is reported as 10/40, we will convert this measurement to 20/80.
(ii) A visual acuity recorded as CF (counts fingers), HM (hand motion only), LP or LPO (light perception or light perception only), or NLP (no light perception) indicates that no optical correction will improve your visual acuity. If your central visual acuity in an eye is recorded as CF, HM, LP or LPO, or NLP, we will determine that your best-corrected central visual acuity is 20/200 or less in that eye.
(iii) We will not use the results of pinhole testing or automated refraction acuity to determine your best-corrected central visual acuity. These tests provide an estimate of potential visual acuity but not an actual measurement of your best-corrected central visual acuity.
(iv) Very young children, such as infants and toddlers, cannot participate in testing using Snellen methodology or other comparable testing. If you are unable to participate in testing using Snellen methodology or other comparable testing due to your young age, we will consider clinical findings of your fixation and visual-following behavior. If both these behaviors are absent, we will consider the anatomical findings or the results of neuroimaging, electroretinogram, or visual evoked response (VER) testing when this testing has been performed.
b.
Other test charts.
(i) Children between the ages of 3 and 5 often cannot identify the letters on a Snellen or other letter test chart. Specialists with expertise in assessment of childhood vision use alternate methods for measuring visual acuity in young children. We consider alternate methods, for example, the Landolt C test or the tumbling-E test, which are used to evaluate young children who are unable to participate in testing using Snellen methodology, to be comparable to testing using Snellen methodology.
(ii) Most test charts that use Snellen methodology do not have lines that measure visual acuity between 20/100 and 20/200. Some test charts, such as the Bailey-Lovie or the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS), used mostly in research settings, have such lines. If your visual acuity is measured with one of these charts, and you cannot read any of the letters on the 20/100 line, we will determine that you have statutory blindness based on a visual acuity of 20/200 or less. For example, if your best-corrected central visual acuity for distance in the better eye is 20/160 using an ETDRS chart, we will find that you have statutory blindness. Regardless of the type of test chart used, you do not have statutory blindness if you can read at least one letter on the 20/100 line. For example, if your best-corrected central visual acuity for distance in the better eye is 20/125 + 1 using an ETDRS chart, we will find that you do not have statutory blindness because you are able to read one letter on the 20/100 line.
c.
Testing using a specialized lens.
In some instances, you may have visual acuity testing performed using a specialized lens, such as a contact lens. We will use the visual acuity measurements obtained with a specialized lens only if you have demonstrated the ability to use the specialized lens on a sustained basis. We will not use visual acuity measurements obtained with telescopic lenses.
d.
Cycloplegic refraction
is an examination of the eye performed after administering cycloplegic eye drops capable of relaxing the ability of the pupil to become smaller and temporarily paralyzing the focusing muscles.
If your case record contains the results of cycloplegic refraction, we may use the results to determine your best-corrected central visual acuity. We will not purchase cycloplegic refraction.
e.
VER testing
measures your response to visual events and can often detect dysfunction that is undetectable through other types of examinations. If you have an absent response to VER testing in your better eye, we will determine that your best-corrected central visual acuity is 20/200 or less in that eye and that your visual acuity loss satisfies the criterion in 102.02A or 102.02B4, as appropriate, when these test results are consistent with the other evidence in your case record. If you have a positive response to VER testing in an eye, we will not use that result to determine your best-corrected central visual acuity in that eye.
6.
How do we measure your visual fields?
a.
General.
We generally need visual field testing when you have a visual disorder that could result in visual field loss, such as glaucoma, retinitis pigmentosa, or optic neuropathy, or when you display behaviors that suggest a visual field loss. When we need to measure the extent of your visual field loss, we use visual field testing (also referred to as perimetry) carried out using automated static threshold perimetry performed on an acceptable perimeter. (For perimeter requirements, see 102.00A9.)
b.
Automated static threshold perimetry requirements.
(i) The test must use a white size III Goldmann stimulus and a 31.5 apostilb (asb) white background (or a 10 candela per square meter (cd/m
2
) white background). The stimuli test locations must be no more than 6 degrees apart horizontally or vertically. Measurements must be reported on standard charts and include a description of the size and intensity of the test stimulus.
(ii) We measure the extent of your visual field loss by determining the portion of the visual field in which you can see a white III4e stimulus. The “III” refers to the standard Goldmann test stimulus size III (4 mm
2
), and the “4e” refers to the standard Goldmann intensity filter (0 decibel (dB) attenuation, which allows presentation of the maximum luminance) used to determine the intensity of the stimulus.
(iii) In automated static threshold perimetry, the intensity of the stimulus varies. The intensity of the stimulus is expressed in decibels (dB). A perimeter's maximum stimulus luminance is usually assigned the value 0 dB. We need to determine the dB level that corresponds to a 4e intensity for the particular perimeter being used. We will then use the dB printout to determine which points you see at a 4e intensity level (a “seeing point”). For example:
A.
When the maximum stimulus luminance (0 dB stimulus) on an acceptable perimeter is 10,000 asb, a 10 dB stimulus is equivalent to a 4e stimulus. Any point you see at 10 dB or greater is a seeing point.
B.
When the maximum stimulus luminance (0 dB stimulus) on an acceptable perimeter is 4,000 asb, a 6 dB stimulus is equivalent to a 4e stimulus. Any point you see at 6 dB or greater is a seeing point.
C.
When the maximum stimulus luminance (0 dB stimulus) on an acceptable perimeter is 1,000 asb, a 0 dB stimulus is equivalent to a 4e stimulus. Any point you see at 0 dB or greater is a seeing point.
c.
Evaluation under 102.03A.
To determine statutory blindness based on visual field loss in your better eye (102.03A), we need the results of a visual field test that measures the central 24 to 30 degrees of your visual field; that is, the area measuring 24 to 30 degrees from the point of fixation. Acceptable tests include the Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA) 30-2, HFA 24-2, and Octopus 32.
d.
Evaluation under 102.03B.
To determine whether your visual field loss meets listing 102.03B, we use the mean deviation or defect (MD) from acceptable automated static threshold perimetry that measures the central 30 degrees of the visual field. MD is the average sensitivity deviation from normal values for all measured visual field locations. When using results from HFA tests, which report the MD as a negative number, we use the absolute value of the MD to determine whether your visual field loss meets listing 102.03B. We cannot use tests that do not measure the central 30 degrees of the visual field, such as the HFA 24-2, to determine if your impairment meets or medically equals 102.03B.
e.
Other types of perimetry.
If your case record contains visual field measurements obtained using manual or automated kinetic perimetry, such as Goldmann perimetry or the HFA “SSA Test Kinetic,” we can generally use these results if the kinetic test was performed using a white III4e stimulus projected on a white 31.5 asb (10 cd/m
2
) background. Automated kinetic perimetry, such as the HFA “SSA Test Kinetic,” does not detect limitations in the central visual field because testing along a meridian stops when you see the stimulus. If your visual disorder has progressed to the point at which it is likely to result in a significant limitation in the central visual field, such as a scotoma (see 102.00A6h), we will not use
automated
kinetic perimetry to determine the extent of your visual field loss. Instead, we will determine the extent of your visual field loss using automated static threshold perimetry or manual kinetic perimetry.
f.
Screening tests.
We will not use the results of visual field screening tests, such as confrontation tests, tangent screen tests, or automated static screening tests, to determine that your impairment meets or medically equals a listing, or functionally equals
the listings. We can consider normal results from visual field screening tests to determine whether your visual disorder is severe when these test results are consistent with the other evidence in your case record. (See § 416.924(c) of this chapter.) We will not consider normal test results to be consistent with the other evidence if the clinical findings indicate that your visual disorder has progressed to the point that it is likely to cause visual field loss, or you have a history of an operative procedure for retinal detachment.
g.
Use of corrective lenses.
You must not wear eyeglasses during visual field testing because they limit your field of vision. You may wear contact lenses to correct your visual acuity during the visual field test to obtain the most accurate visual field measurements. For this single purpose, you do not need to demonstrate that you have the ability to use the contact lenses on a sustained basis.
h.
Scotoma.
A scotoma is a field defect or non-seeing area (also referred to as a “blind spot”) in the visual field surrounded by a normal field or seeing area. When we measure your visual field, we subtract the length of any scotoma, other than the normal blind spot, from the overall length of any diameter on which it falls.
7.
How do we determine your visual acuity efficiency, visual field efficiency, and visual efficiency?
a.
General. Visual efficiency,
a calculated value of your remaining visual function, is the combination of your
visual acuity efficiency
and your
visual field efficiency
expressed as a percentage.
b.
Visual acuity efficiency.
Visual acuity efficiency is a percentage that corresponds to the best-corrected central visual acuity for distance in your better eye. See Table 1.
Table 1—Visual Acuity Efficiency
Snellen best-corrected central visual acuity for distance
English
Metric
Visual acuity efficiency (%)
(102.04A)
20/16
6/5
100
20/20
6/6
100
20/25
6/7.5
95
20/30
6/9
90
20/40
6/12
85
20/50
6/15
75
20/60
6/18
70
20/70
6/21
65
20/80
6/24
60
20/100
6/30
50
c.
Visual field efficiency.
Visual field efficiency is a percentage that corresponds to the visual field in your better eye. Under 102.03C, we require kinetic perimetry to determine your visual field efficiency percentage. We calculate the visual field efficiency percentage by adding the number of degrees you see along the eight principal meridians found on a visual field chart (0, 45, 90, 135, 180, 225, 270, and 315) in your better eye and dividing by 5. For example, in Figure 1:
A.
The diagram of the left eye illustrates a visual field, as measured with a III4e stimulus, contracted to 30 degrees in two meridians (180 and 225) and to 20 degrees in the remaining six meridians. The visual efficiency percentage of this field is: ((2 × 30) + (6 × 20)) ÷ 5 = 36 percent.
B.
The diagram of the right eye illustrates the extent of a normal visual field as measured with a III4e stimulus. The sum of the eight principal meridians of this field is 500 degrees. The visual efficiency percentage of this field is 500 ÷ 5 = 100 percent.
ER28MR13.003
d.
Visual efficiency.
Under 102.04A, we calculate the visual efficiency percentage by multiplying your visual acuity efficiency percentage (see 102.00A7b) by your visual field efficiency percentage (see 102.00A7c) and dividing by 100. For example, if your visual acuity efficiency percentage is 75 and your visual field efficiency percentage is 36, your visual efficiency percentage is: (75 × 36) ÷ 100 = 27 percent.
8.
How do we determine your visual acuity impairment value, visual field impairment value, and visual impairment value?
a.
General. Visual impairment value,
a calculated value of your loss of visual function, is the combination of your
visual acuity impairment value
and your
visual field impairment value.
b.
Visual acuity impairment value.
Your visual acuity impairment value corresponds to the best-corrected central visual acuity for distance in your better eye. See Table 2.
Table 2—Visual Acuity Impairment Value
Snellen best-corrected central visual acuity for distance
English
Metric
Visual acuity
impairment value
(102.04B)
20/16
6/5
0.00
20/20
6/6
0.00
20/25
6/7.5
0.10
20/30
6/9
0.18
20/40
6/12
0.30
20/50
6/15
0.40
20/60
6/18
0.48
20/70
6/21
0.54
20/80
6/24
0.60
20/100
6/30
0.70
c.
Visual field impairment value.
Your visual field impairment value corresponds to the visual field in your better eye. Using the MD from acceptable automated static threshold perimetry, we calculate the visual field impairment value by dividing the absolute value of the MD by 22. For example, if your MD on an HFA 30-2 is −16, your visual field impairment value is: |−16| ÷ 22 = 0.73.
d.
Visual impairment value.
Under 102.04B, we calculate the visual impairment value by adding your visual acuity impairment value (see 102.00A8b) and your visual field impairment value (see 102.00A8c). For example, if your visual acuity impairment value is 0.48 and your visual field impairment value is 0.73, your visual impairment value is: 0.48 + 0.73 = 1.21.
9.
What are our requirements for an acceptable perimeter?
We will use results from automated static threshold perimetry performed on a perimeter that:
a. Uses optical projection to generate the test stimuli.
b. Has an internal normative database for automatically comparing your performance with that of the general population.
c. Has a statistical analysis package that is able to calculate visual field indices, particularly mean deviation or mean defect.
d. Demonstrates the ability to correctly detect visual field loss and correctly identify normal visual fields.
e. Demonstrates good test-retest reliability.
f. Has undergone clinical validation studies by three or more independent laboratories with results published in peer-reviewed ophthalmic journals.
B.
How do we evaluate hearing loss?
1.
What evidence do we need?
a. We need evidence showing that you have a medically determinable impairment that causes your hearing loss and audiometric measurements of the severity of your hearing loss. We generally require both an otologic examination and audiometric testing to establish that you have a medically determinable impairment that causes your hearing loss. You should have this audiometric testing within 2 months of the otologic examination. Once we have evidence that you have a medically determinable impairment, we can use the results of later audiometric testing to assess the severity of your hearing loss without another otologic examination. We will consider your test scores together with any other relevant information we have about your hearing, including information from outside of the test setting.
b. The otologic examination must be performed by a licensed physician (medical or osteopathic doctor) or audiologist. It must include your medical history, your description of how your hearing loss affects you, and the physician's or audiologist's description of the appearance of the external ears (pinnae and external ear canals), evaluation of the tympanic membranes, and assessment of any middle ear abnormalities.
c. Audiometric testing must be performed by, or under the direct supervision of, a licensed audiologist or an otolaryngologist.
2.
What audiometric testing do we need when you do not have a cochlear implant?
a.
General.
We need either physiologic or behavioral testing (other than screening testing, see 102.00B2g) that is appropriate for your age at the time of testing.
See
102.00B2c-102.00B2f. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain the results of physiologic testing that has been done; however, we will not purchase such testing.
b.
Testing requirements.
The testing must be conducted in accordance with the most recently published standards of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). You must not wear hearing aids during the testing. Additionally, a person described in 102.00B1c must perform an otoscopic examination immediately before the audiometric testing. (An
otoscopic examination
provides a description of the appearance of your external ear canals and an evaluation of the tympanic membranes. In these rules, we use the term to include otoscopic examinations performed by physicians and otoscopic inspections performed by audiologists and others.) The otoscopic examination must show that there are no conditions that would prevent valid audiometric testing, such as fluid in the ear, ear infection, or obstruction in an ear canal. The person performing the test should also report on any other factors, such as your ability to maintain attention, that can affect the interpretation of the test results.
c.
Children from birth to the attainment of age 6 months.
(i) We need physiologic testing, such as auditory brainstem response (ABR) testing.
(ii) To determine whether your hearing loss meets 102.10A, we will average your hearing thresholds at 500, 1000, 2000, and 4000 Hertz (Hz). If you do not have a response at a particular frequency, we will use a threshold of 5 decibels (dB) over the limit of the audiometer.
d.
Children from age 6 months to the attainment of age 2.
(i) We need air conduction thresholds determined by a behavioral assessment, usually visual reinforcement audiometry (VRA). We can use ABR testing if the behavioral assessment cannot be completed or if the results are inconclusive or unreliable.
(ii) To determine whether your hearing loss meets 102.10A, we will average your hearing thresholds at 500, 1000, 2000, and 4000 Hz. If you do not have a response at a particular frequency, we will use a threshold of 5 dB over the limit of the audiometer.
(iii) For this age group, behavioral assessments are often performed in a sound field, and each ear is not tested separately. If each ear is not tested separately, we will consider the test results to represent the hearing in the better ear.
e.
Children from age 2 to the attainment of age 5.
(i) We need air conduction thresholds determined by a behavioral assessment, such as conditioned play audiometry (CPA), tangible or visually reinforced operant conditioning audiometry (TROCA, VROCA), or VRA. If you have had ABR testing, we can use the results of that testing if the behavioral assessment cannot be completed or the results are inconclusive or unreliable.
(ii) To determine whether your hearing loss meets 102.10A, we will average your hearing thresholds at 500, 1000, 2000, and 4000 Hz. If you do not have a response at a particular frequency, we will use a threshold of 5 dB over the limit of the audiometer.
(iii) For this age group, behavioral assessments are often performed in a sound field
and each ear is not tested separately. If each ear is not tested separately, we will consider the test results to represent the hearing in the better ear.
f.
Children from age 5 to the attainment of age 18.
(i) We generally need pure tone air conduction and bone conduction testing, speech reception threshold (SRT) testing (also referred to as “spondee threshold” or “ST” testing), and word recognition testing (also referred to as “word discrimination” or “speech discrimination” testing). This testing must be conducted in a sound-treated booth or room and must be in accordance with the most recently published ANSI standards. Each ear must be tested separately.
(ii) To determine whether your hearing loss meets the air and bone conduction criterion in 102.10B1 or 102.10B3, we will average your hearing thresholds at 500, 1000, 2000, and 4000 Hz. If you do not have a response at a particular frequency, we will use a threshold of 5 dB over the limit of the audiometer.
(iii) The SRT is the minimum dB level required for you to recognize 50 percent of the words on a standard list of spondee words. (Spondee words are two-syllable words that have equal stress on each syllable.) The SRT is usually within 10 dB of the average pure tone air conduction hearing thresholds at 500, 1000, and 2000 Hz. If the SRT is not within 10 dB of the average pure tone air conduction threshold, the reason for the discrepancy must be documented. If we cannot determine that there is a medical basis for the discrepancy, we will not use the results of the testing to determine whether your hearing loss meets a listing.
(iv) Word recognition testing determines your ability to recognize an age-appropriate, standardized list of phonetically balanced monosyllabic words in the absence of any visual cues. This testing must be performed in quiet. The list may be recorded or presented live, but in either case, the words should be presented at a level of amplification that will measure your maximum ability to discriminate words, usually 35 to 40 dB above your SRT. However, the amplification level used in the testing must be medically appropriate, and you must be able to tolerate it. If you cannot be tested at 35 to 40 dB above your SRT, the person who performs the test should report your word recognition testing score at your highest comfortable level of amplification.
g.
Screening testing.
Physiologic testing, such as ABR and otoacoustic emissions (OAE), and pure tone testing can be used as hearing screening tests. We will not use these tests to determine that your hearing loss meets or medically equals a listing, or to assess functional limitations due to your hearing loss, when they are used only as screening tests. We can consider normal results from hearing screening tests to determine that your hearing loss is not “severe” when these test results are consistent with the other evidence in your case record.
See
§ 416.924(c).
3.
What audiometric testing do we need when you have a cochlear implant?
a. If you have a cochlear implant, we will consider you to be disabled until age 5, or for 1 year after initial implantation, whichever is later.
b. After that period, we need word recognition testing performed with any age-appropriate version of the Hearing in Noise Test (HINT) or the Hearing in Noise Test for Children (HINT-C) to determine whether your impairment meets 102.11B. This testing must be conducted in quiet in a sound field. Your implant must be functioning properly and adjusted to your normal settings. The sentences should be presented at 60 dB HL (Hearing Level) and without any visual cues.
4.
How do we evaluate your word recognition ability if you are not fluent in English?
If you are not fluent in English, you should have word recognition testing using an appropriate word list for the language in which you are most fluent. The person conducting the test should be fluent in the language used for the test. If there is no appropriate word list or no person who is fluent in the language and qualified to perform the test, it may not be possible to measure your word recognition ability. If your word recognition ability cannot be measured, your hearing loss cannot meet 102.10B2 or 102.11B. Instead, we will consider the facts of your case to determine whether you have difficulty understanding words in the language in which you are most fluent, and if so, whether that degree of difficulty medically equals 102.10B2 or 102.11B. For example, we will consider how you interact with family members, interpreters, and other persons who speak the language in which you are most fluent.
5.
What do we mean by a marked limitation in speech or language as used in 102.10B3?
a. We will consider you to have a marked limitation in speech if:
(i) Entire phrases or sentences in your conversation are intelligible to unfamiliar listeners at least 50 percent (half) of the time but no more than 67 percent (two-thirds) of the time on your first attempt; and
(ii) Your sound production or phonological patterns (the ways in which you combine speech sounds) are atypical for your age.
b. We will consider you to have a marked limitation in language when your current and valid test score on an appropriate comprehensive, standardized test of overall language functioning is at least two standard deviations below the mean. In addition, the evidence of your daily communication functioning must be consistent with your test score. If you are not fluent in English, it may not be possible to test your language
performance. If we cannot test your language performance, your hearing loss cannot meet 102.10B3. Instead, we will consider the facts of your case to determine whether your hearing loss medically equals 102.10B3.
102.01
Category of Impairments, Special Senses and Speech
102.02
Loss of central visual acuity.
A. Remaining vision in the better eye after best correction is 20/200 or less.
OR
B. An inability to participate in visual acuity testing using Snellen methodology or other comparable testing, clinical findings that fixation and visual-following behavior are absent in the better eye, and one of the following:
1. Abnormal anatomical findings indicating a visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye (such as the presence of Stage III or worse retinopathy of prematurity despite surgery, hypoplasia of the optic nerve, albinism with macular aplasia, or bilateral optic atrophy); or
2. Abnormal neuroimaging documenting damage to the cerebral cortex which would be expected to prevent the development of a visual acuity better than 20/200 in the better eye (such as neuroimaging showing bilateral encephalomyelitis or bilateral encephalomalacia); or
3. Abnormal electroretinogram documenting the presence of Leber's congenital amaurosis or achromatopsia in the better eye; or
4. An absent response to VER testing in the better eye.
102.03
Contraction of the visual field in the better eye,
with:
A. The widest diameter subtending an angle around the point of fixation no greater than 20 degrees.
OR
B. An MD of 22 decibels or greater, determined by automated static threshold perimetry that measures the central 30 degrees of the visual field (see 102.00A6d.).
OR
C. A visual field efficiency of 20 percent or less, determined by kinetic perimetry (see 102.00A7c).
102.04
Loss of visual efficiency, or visual impairment, in the better eye:
A. A visual efficiency percentage of 20 or less after best correction (see 102.00A7d.).
OR
B. A visual impairment value of 1.00 or greater after best correction (see 102.00A8d).
102.10
Hearing loss not treated with cochlear implantation.
A. For children from birth to the attainment of age 5, an average air conduction hearing threshold of 50 decibels or greater in the better ear (see 102.00B2).
OR
B. For children from age 5 to the attainment of age 18:
1. An average air conduction hearing threshold of 70 decibels or greater in the better ear and an average bone conduction hearing threshold of 40 decibels or greater in the better ear (see 102.00B2f); or
2. A word recognition score of 40 percent or less in the better ear determined using a standardized list of phonetically balanced monosyllabic words (see 102.00B2f); or
3. An average air conduction hearing threshold of 50 decibels or greater in the better ear and a marked limitation in speech or language (see 102.00B2f and 102.00B5).
102.11
Hearing loss treated with cochlear implantation.
A. Consider under a disability until the attainment of age 5 or for 1 year after initial implantation, whichever is later.
OR
B. Upon the attainment of age 5 or 1 year after initial implantation, whichever is later, a word recognition score of 60 percent or less determined using the HINT or the HINT-C (
see
102.00B3b).

# 103.00 Respiratory Disorders
A.
Which disorders do we evaluate in this body system?
1. We evaluate respiratory disorders that result in obstruction (difficulty moving air out of the lungs) or restriction (difficulty moving air into the lungs), or that interfere with diffusion (gas exchange) across cell membranes in the lungs. Examples of such disorders and the listings we use to evaluate them include chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (103.02), chronic lung disease of infancy (also known as bronchopulmonary dysplasia, 103.02C or 103.02E), pulmonary fibrosis (103.02), asthma (103.02 or 103.03), and cystic fibrosis (103.04). We also use listings in this body system to evaluate respiratory failure resulting from an underlying chronic respiratory disorder (103.04E or 103.14) and lung transplantation (103.11).
2. We evaluate cancers affecting the respiratory system under the listings in 113.00. We evaluate the pulmonary effects of neuromuscular and autoimmune disorders under these listings or under the listings in 111.00 or 114.00, respectively.
B.
What are the symptoms and signs of respiratory disorders?
Symptoms and signs of respiratory disorders include dyspnea (shortness of breath), chest pain, coughing, wheezing, sputum production, hemoptysis (coughing up blood from the respiratory tract), use of accessory muscles of respiration, and tachypnea (rapid rate of breathing).
C.
What abbreviations do we use in this body system?
1.
BiPAP
means bi-level positive airway pressure ventilation.
2.
BTPS
means body temperature and ambient pressure, saturated with water vapor.
3.
CF
means cystic fibrosis.
4.
CFRD
means CF-related diabetes.
5.
CFTR
means CF transmembrane conductance regulator.
6.
CLD
means chronic lung disease of infancy.
7.
FEV
1
means forced expiratory volume in the first second of a forced expiratory maneuver.
8.
FVC
means forced vital capacity.
9.
L
means liter.
D.
What documentation do we need to evaluate your respiratory disorder?
1. We need
medical evidence
to document and assess the severity of your respiratory disorder. Medical evidence should include your medical history, physical examination findings, the results of imaging (see 103.00D3), spirometry (see 103.00E), other relevant laboratory tests, and descriptions of any prescribed treatment and your response to it. We may not need all of this evidence depending on your particular respiratory disorder and its effects on you.
2. If you use
supplemental oxygen,
we still need medical evidence to establish the severity of your respiratory disorder.
3.
Imaging
refers to medical imaging techniques, such as x-ray and computerized tomography. The imaging must be consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice as the proper technique to support the evaluation of the disorder.
E.
What is spirometry and what are our requirements for an acceptable test and report?
1. Spirometry, which measures how well you move air into and out of your lungs, involves at least three forced expiratory maneuvers during the same test session. A forced expiratory maneuver is a maximum inhalation followed by a forced maximum exhalation, and measures exhaled volumes of air over time. The volume of air you exhale in the first second of the forced expiratory maneuver is the FEV
1
. The total volume of air that you exhale during the entire forced expiratory maneuver is the FVC. We use your highest FEV
1
value to evaluate your respiratory disorder under 103.02A and 103.04A, and your highest FVC value to evaluate your respiratory disorder under 103.02B, regardless of whether the values are from the same forced expiratory maneuver or different forced expiratory maneuvers. We will not purchase spirometry for children who have not attained age 6.
2. We have the following requirements for spirometry under these listings:
a. You must be medically stable at the time of the test. Examples of when we would not consider you to be medically stable include when you are:
(i) Within 2 weeks of a change in your prescribed respiratory medication.
(ii) Experiencing, or within 30 days of completion of treatment for, a lower respiratory tract infection.
(iii) Experiencing, or within 30 days of completion of treatment for, an acute exacerbation (temporary worsening) of a chronic respiratory disorder. Wheezing by itself does not indicate that you are not medically stable.
b. During testing, if your FEV
1
is less than 70 percent of your predicted normal value, we require repeat spirometry after inhalation of a bronchodilator to evaluate your respiratory disorder under these listings, unless it is medically contraindicated. If you used a bronchodilator before the test and your FEV
1
is less than 70 percent of your predicted normal value, we still require repeat spirometry after inhalation of a bronchodilator unless the supervising physician determines that it is not safe for you to take a bronchodilator again (in which case we may need to reschedule the test). If you do not have post-bronchodilator spirometry, the test report must explain why. We can use the results of spirometry administered without bronchodilators when the use of bronchodilators is medically contraindicated.
c. Your forced expiratory maneuvers must be satisfactory. We consider a forced expiratory maneuver to be satisfactory when you exhale with maximum effort following a full inspiration, and when the test tracing has a sharp takeoff and rapid rise to peak flow, has a smooth contour, and either lasts for at least 6 seconds (for children age 10 and older) or for at least 3 seconds (for children who have not attained age 10), or maintains a plateau for at least 1 second.
3. The spirometry report must include the following information:
a. The date of the test and your name, age or date of birth, gender, and height without shoes. (We will assume that your recorded height on the date of the test is without shoes, unless we have evidence to the contrary.) If your spine is abnormally curved (for example, you have kyphoscoliosis), we will substitute the longest distance between your outstretched fingertips with your arms abducted 90 degrees in place of your height when this measurement is greater than your standing height without shoes.
b. Any factors, if applicable, that can affect the interpretation of the test results (for example, your cooperation or effort in doing the test).
c. Legible tracings of your forced expiratory maneuvers in a volume-time format showing your name and the date of the test for each maneuver.
4. If you have attained age 6, we may need to purchase spirometry to determine whether your disorder meets a listing, unless we can make a fully favorable determination or decision on another basis.
5. Before we purchase spirometry for a child age 6 or older, a medical consultant (see § 416.1016 of this chapter), preferably one with experience in the care of children with respiratory disorders, must review your case record to determine if we need the test. If we purchase spirometry, the medical source we designate to administer the test is solely responsible for deciding whether it is safe for you to do the test and for how to administer it.
F.
What is CLD and how do we evaluate it?
1.
CLD,
also known as bronchopulmonary dysplasia, or BPD, is scarring of the immature lung. CLD may develop as a complication of mechanical ventilation and oxygen therapy for infants with significant neonatal respiratory problems. Within the first 6 months of life, most infants with CLD are successfully weaned from mechanical ventilation, and then weaned from oxygen supplementation. We evaluate CLD under 103.02C, 103.02E, or if you are age 2 or older, under 103.03 or another appropriate listing.
2. If you have CLD, are not yet 6 months old, and need 24-hour-per-day oxygen supplementation, we will not evaluate your CLD under 103.02C until you are 6 months old. Depending on the evidence in your case record, we may make a fully favorable determination or decision under other rules before you are 6 months old.
3. We evaluate your CLD under 103.02C if you are at least 6 months old and you need 24-hour-per-day oxygen supplementation. (If you were born prematurely, we use your corrected chronological age. See § 416.924b(b) of this chapter.) We also evaluate your CLD under 103.02C if you were weaned off oxygen supplementation but needed it again by the time you were 6 months old or older.
4. We evaluate your CLD under 103.02E if you are any age from birth to the attainment of age 2 and have CLD exacerbations or complications (for example, wheezing, lower respiratory tract infections, or acute respiratory distress) that require hospitalization. For the purpose of 103.02E, we count your initial birth hospitalization as one hospitalization. The phrase “consider under a disability for 1 year from the discharge date of the last hospitalization
or
until the attainment of age 2, whichever is later” in 103.02E does not refer to the date on which your disability began, only to the date on which we must reevaluate whether your impairment(s) continues to meet a listing or is otherwise disabling.
G.
What is asthma and how do we evaluate it?
1.
Asthma
is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the lung airways that we evaluate under 103.02 or 103.03. If you have respiratory failure resulting from chronic asthma (see 103.00J), we will evaluate it under 103.14.
2. For the purposes of 103.03:
a. The phrase “consider under a disability for 1 year” explains how long your asthma can meet the requirements of the listing. It does not refer to the date on which your disability began, only to the date on which we must reevaluate whether your asthma continues to meet a listing or is otherwise disabling.
b. We determine the onset of your disability based on the facts of your case, but it will be no later than the admission date of your first of three hospitalizations that satisfy the criteria of 103.03.
H.
What is CF and how do we evaluate it?
1.
General.
We evaluate
CF,
a genetic disorder that results in abnormal salt and water transport across cell membranes in the lungs, pancreas, and other body organs, under 103.04. We need the evidence described in 103.00H2 to establish that you have CF.
2.
Documentation of CF.
We need a report signed by a physician (see § 416.913(a) of this chapter) showing both a
and
b:
a. One of the following:
(i) A positive newborn screen for CF; or
(ii) A history of CF in a sibling; or
(iii) Documentation of at least one specific CF phenotype or clinical criterion (for example, chronic sino-pulmonary disease with persistent colonization or infections with typical CF pathogens, pancreatic insufficiency, or salt-loss syndromes);
and
b. One of the following definitive laboratory tests:
(i) An elevated sweat chloride concentration equal to or greater than 60 millimoles per L; or
(ii) The identification of two CF gene mutations affecting the CFTR; or
(iii) Characteristic abnormalities in ion transport across the nasal epithelium.
c. When we have the report showing a and b, but it is not signed by a physician, we also need a report from a physician stating that you have CF.
d. When we do not have the report showing a and b, we need a report from a physician that is persuasive that a positive diagnosis of CF was confirmed by an appropriate definitive laboratory test. To be persuasive, this report must include a statement by the physician that you had the appropriate definitive laboratory test for diagnosing CF. The report must provide the test results or explain how your diagnosis was established that is consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice.
3.
CF pulmonary exacerbations.
Examples of CF pulmonary exacerbations include increased cough and sputum production, hemoptysis, increased shortness of breath, increased fatigue, and reduction in pulmonary function. Treatment usually includes intravenous antibiotics and intensified airway clearance therapy (for example, increased frequencies of chest percussion or increased use of inhaled nebulized therapies, such as bronchodilators or mucolytics).
4. For 103.04G, we require any two exacerbations or complications from the list in 103.04G1 through 103.04G4 within a 12-month period. You may have two of the same exacerbation or complication or two different ones.
a. If you have two of the acute exacerbations or complications we describe in 103.04G1 and 103.04G2, there must be at least 30 days between the two.
b. If you have one of the acute exacerbations or complications we describe in 103.04G1 and 103.04G2 and one of the chronic complications we describe in 103.04G3 and 103.04G4, the two can occur during the same time. For example, your CF meets 103.04G if you have the pulmonary hemorrhage we describe in 103.04G2 and the weight loss we describe in 103.04G3 even if the pulmonary hemorrhage occurs during the 90-day period in 103.04G3.
c. Your CF also meets 103.04G if you have both of the chronic complications in 103.04G3 and 103.04G4.
5. CF may also affect other body systems such as digestive or endocrine. If your CF, including pulmonary exacerbations and nonpulmonary complications, does not meet or medically equal a respiratory disorders listing, we may evaluate your CF-related impairments under the listings in the affected body system.
I.
How do we evaluate lung transplantation?
If you receive a lung transplant (or a lung transplant simultaneously with other organs, such as the heart), we will consider you to be disabled under 103.11 for 3 years from the date of the transplant. After that, we evaluate your residual impairment(s) by considering the adequacy of your post-transplant function, the frequency and severity of any rejection episodes you have, complications in other body systems, and adverse treatment effects. Children who receive organ transplants generally have impairments that meet our definition of disability before they undergo transplantation. The phrase “consider under a disability for 3 years” in 103.11 does not refer to the date on which your disability began, only to the date on which we must reevaluate whether your impairment(s) continues to meet a listing or is otherwise disabling. We determine the onset of your disability based on the facts of your case.
J.
What is respiratory failure and how do we evaluate it?
Respiratory failure is the inability of the lungs to perform their basic function of gas exchange. We evaluate respiratory failure under 103.04E if you have CF-related respiratory failure, or under 103.14 if you have respiratory failure due to any other
chronic
respiratory disorder. Continuous positive airway pressure does not satisfy the criterion in 103.04E or 103.14, and cannot be substituted as an equivalent finding, for invasive mechanical ventilation or noninvasive ventilation with BiPAP.
K.
How do we evaluate growth failure due to any chronic respiratory disorder?
1. To evaluate growth failure due to any chronic respiratory disorder, we require documentation of the oxygen supplementation described in 103.06A and the growth measurements in 103.06B within the same consecutive 12-month period. The dates of oxygen supplementation may be different from the dates of growth measurements.
2. Under 103.06B, we use the appropriate table(s) under 105.08B in the digestive system to determine whether a child's growth is less than the third percentile.
a. For children from birth to attainment of age 2, we use the weight-for-length table corresponding to the child's gender (Table I or Table II).
b. For children age 2 to attainment of age 18, we use the body mass index (BMI)-for-age table corresponding to the child's gender (Table III or Table IV).
c. BMI is the ratio of a child's weight to the square of his or her height. We calculate BMI using the formulas in the digestive disorders body system (105.00).
L.
How do we evaluate respiratory disorders that do not meet one of these listings?
1. These listings are only examples of common respiratory disorders that we consider severe enough to result in marked and severe functional limitations. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that meets the criteria of a listing in another body system. For example, if your CF has resulted in chronic pancreatic or hepatobiliary disease, we evaluate your impairment under the listings in 105.00.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. See § 416.926 of this chapter. Respiratory disorders may be associated with disorders in other body systems, and we consider the combined effects of multiple impairments when we determine whether they medically equal a listing. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, we will also consider whether it functionally equals the listings. See § 416.926a of this chapter. We use the rules in § 416.994a of this chapter when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 103.01 Category of Impairments, Respiratory Disorders
103.02
Chronic respiratory disorders
due to any cause except CF (for CF, see 103.04), with A, B, C, D, or E:
A. FEV
1
(see 103.00E) less than or equal to the value in Table I-A or I-B for your age,
gender, and height without shoes (see 103.00E3a).
Table I—FEV
1
Criteria for 103.02A
Table I-A
Age 6 to attainment of age 13
(for both females and males)
Height without shoes
(centimeters)
means
less than
Height without shoes
(inches)
means
less than
FEV
1
less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Table I-B
Age 13 to attainment of age 18
Height without shoes
(centimeters)
means
less than
Height without shoes
(inches)
means
less than
Females FEV
1
less than
or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Males FEV
1
less than
or equal to
(L, BTPS)
123.0
48.50
0.80
153.0
60.25
1.35
1.40
123.0 to
129.0
48.50 to
50.75
0.90
153.0 to
159.0
60.25 to
62.50
1.45
1.50
129.0 to
134.0
50.75 to
52.75
1.00
159.0 to
164.0
62.50 to
64.50
1.55
1.60
134.0 to
139.0
52.75 to
54.75
1.10
164.0 to
169.0
64.50 to
66.50
1.65
1.70
139.0 to
144.0
54.75 to
56.75
1.20
169.0 to
174.0
66.50 to
68.50
1.75
1.85
144.0 to
149.0
56.75 to
58.75
1.30
174.0 to
180.0
68.50 to
70.75
1.85
2.00
149.0 or more
58.75 or more
1.40
180.0 or more
70.75 or more
1.95
2.10
OR
B. FVC (see 103.00E) less than or equal to the value in Table II-A or II-B for your age, gender, and height without shoes (see 103.00E3a).
Table II—FVC Criteria for 103.02B
Table II-A
Age 6 to attainment of age 13
(for both females and males)
Height without shoes (centimeters)
means
less than
Height without shoes
(inches)
means
less than
FVC
less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Table II-B
Age 13 to attainment of age 18
Height without shoes
(centimeters)
means
less than
Height without shoes
(inches)
means
less than
Females
FVC
less than
or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Males
FVC
less than
or equal to
(L, BTPS)
123.0
48.50
0.85
153.0
60.25
1.65
1.65
123.0 to
129.0
48.50 to
50.75
1.00
153.0 to
159.0
60.25 to
62.50
1.70
1.80
129.0 to
134.0
50.75 to
52.75
1.10
159.0 to
164.0
62.50 to
64.50
1.80
1.95
134.0 to
139.0
52.75 to
54.75
1.30
164.0 to
169.0
64.50 to
66.50
1.95
2.10
139.0 to
144.0
54.75 to
56.75
1.40
169.0 to
174.0
66.50 to
68.50
2.05
2.25
144.0 to
149.0
56.75 to
58.75
1.55
174.0 to
180.0
68.50 to
70.75
2.20
2.45
149.0 or more
58.75 or more
1.70
180.0 or more
70.75 or more
2.30
2.55
OR
C. Hypoxemia with the need for at least 1.0 L per minute of continuous (24 hours per day) oxygen supplementation for at least 90 consecutive days.
OR
D. The presence of a tracheostomy.
1. Consider under a disability until the attainment of age 3; or
2. Upon the attainment of age 3, documented need for mechanical ventilation via a tracheostomy for at least 4 hours per day and for at least 90 consecutive days.
OR
E. For children who have not attained age 2, CLD (see 103.00F) with exacerbations or complications requiring three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and at least 30 days apart (the 12-month period must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review). Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, including hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization. (A child's initial birth hospitalization when CLD is first diagnosed counts as one hospitalization.) Consider under a disability for 1 year from the discharge date of the last hospitalization
or
until the attainment of age 2, whichever is later. After that, evaluate the impairment(s) under 103.03 or another appropriate listing.
103.03
Asthma
(see 103.00G) with exacerbations or complications requiring three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and at least 30 days apart (the 12-month period must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or
continuing disability review). Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, including hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization. Consider under a disability for 1 year from the discharge date of the last hospitalization; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s) under 103.03 or another appropriate listing.
103.04
Cystic fibrosis
(documented as described in 103.00H), with A, B, C, D, E, F, or G:
A. FEV
1
(see 103.00E) less than or equal to the value in Table III-A or Table III-B for your age, gender, and height without shoes (see 103.00E3a).
Table III—FEV
1
Criteria for 103.04A
Table III-A
Age 6 to attainment of age 13
(for both females and males)
Height without shoes (centimeters)
means
less than
Height without shoes
(inches)
means
less than
FEV
1
less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Table III-B
Age 13 to attainment of age 18
Height without shoes (centimeters)
means
less than
Height without shoes
(inches)
means
less than
Females
FEV
1
less than
or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Males
FEV
1
less than
or equal to
(L, BTPS)
123.0
48.50
1.00
153.0
60.25
1.75
1.85
123.0 to
129.0
48.50 to
50.75
1.15
153.0 to
159.0
60.25 to
62.50
1.85
2.05
129.0 to
134.0
50.75 to
52.75
1.25
159.0 to
164.0
62.50 to
64.50
1.95
2.15
134.0 to
139.0
52.75 to
54.75
1.40
164.0 to
169.0
64.50 to
66.50
2.10
2.30
139.0 to
144.0
54.75 to
56.75
1.50
169.0 to
174.0
66.50 to
68.50
2.25
2.45
144.0 to
149.0
56.75 to
58.75
1.70
174.0 to
180.0
68.50 to
70.75
2.35
2.60
149.0 or more
58.75 or more
1.80
180.0 or more
70.75 or more
2.50
2.70
OR
B. For children who have not attained age 6, findings on imaging (see 103.00D3) of thickening of the proximal bronchial airways, nodular-cystic lesions, segmental or lobular atelectasis, or consolidation,
and
documentation of one of the following:
1. Shortness of breath with activity; or
2. Accumulation of secretions as manifested by repetitive coughing; or
3. Bilateral rales or rhonchi, or reduction of breath sounds.
OR
C. Exacerbations or complications (see 103.00H3) requiring three hospitalizations of any length within a 12-month period and at least 30 days apart (the 12-month period must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review).
OR
D. Spontaneous pneumothorax, secondary to CF, requiring chest tube placement.
OR
E. Respiratory failure (see 103.00J) requiring invasive mechanical ventilation, noninvasive ventilation with BiPAP, or a combination of both treatments, for a continuous period of at least 48 hours, or for a continuous period of at least 72 hours if postoperatively.
OR
F. Pulmonary hemorrhage requiring vascular embolization to control bleeding.
OR
G. Two of the following exacerbations or complications (either two of the same or two different, see 103.00H3 and 103.00H4) within a 12-month period (the 12-month period must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review):
1. Pulmonary exacerbation requiring 10 consecutive days of intravenous antibiotic treatment.
2. Pulmonary hemorrhage (hemoptysis with more than blood-streaked sputum but not requiring vascular embolization) requiring hospitalization of any length.
3. Weight loss requiring daily supplemental enteral nutrition via a gastrostomy for at least 90 consecutive days
or
parenteral nutrition via a central venous catheter for at least 90 consecutive days.
4. CFRD requiring daily insulin therapy for at least 90 consecutive days.
103.05 [Reserved]
103.06
Growth failure due to any chronic respiratory disorder
(see 103.00K), documented by:
A. Hypoxemia with the need for at least 1.0 L per min of oxygen supplementation for at least 4 hours per day and for at least 90 consecutive days.
AND
B. Growth failure as required in 1 or 2:
1.
For children from birth to attainment of age 2,
three weight-for-length measurements that are:
a. Within a consecutive 12-month period; and
b. At least 60 days apart; and
c. Less than the third percentile on the appropriate weight-for-length table under 105.08B1; or
2.
For children age 2 to attainment of age 18,
three BMI-for-age measurements that are:
a. Within a consecutive 12-month period; and
b. At least 60 days apart; and
c. Less than the third percentile on the appropriate BMI-for-age table under 105.08B2.
103.07 [Reserved]
103.08 [Reserved]
103.09 [Reserved]
103.10 [Reserved]
103.11
Lung transplantation
(see 103.00I). Consider under a disability for 3 years from the date of the transplant; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).
103.12 [Reserved]
103.13 [Reserved]
103.14
Respiratory failure
(see 103.00J) resulting from any underlying chronic respiratory disorder except CF (for CF, see 103.04E), requiring invasive mechanical ventilation, noninvasive ventilation with BiPAP, or a combination of both treatments, for a continuous period of at least 48 hours, or for a continuous period of at least 72 hours if postoperatively,
twice
within a 12-month period and at least 30 days apart (the 12-month period must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review).

# 104.00 Cardiovascular System

# A. General
1.
What do we mean by a cardiovascular impairment?
a. We mean any disorder that affects the proper functioning of the heart or the circulatory system (that is, arteries, veins, capillaries, and the lymphatic drainage). The disorder can be congenital or acquired.
b. Cardiovascular impairment results from one or more of four consequences of heart disease:
(i) Chronic heart failure or ventricular dysfunction.
(ii) Discomfort or pain due to myocardial ischemia, with or without necrosis of heart muscle.
(iii) Syncope, or near syncope, due to inadequate cerebral perfusion from any cardiac cause, such as obstruction of flow or disturbance in rhythm or conduction resulting in inadequate cardiac output.
(iv) Central cyanosis due to right-to-left shunt, reduced oxygen concentration in the arterial blood, or pulmonary vascular disease.
c. Disorders of the veins or arteries (for example, obstruction, rupture, or aneurysm) may cause impairments of the lower extremities (peripheral vascular disease), the central nervous system, the eyes, the kidneys, and other organs. We will evaluate peripheral vascular disease under 4.11 or 4.12 in part A, and impairments of another body system(s) under the listings for that body system(s).
2.
What do we consider in evaluating cardiovascular impairments?
The listings in this section describe cardiovascular impairments based on symptoms, signs, laboratory findings, response to a regimen of prescribed treatment, and functional limitations.
3.
What do the following terms or phrases mean in these listings?
a.
Medical consultant
is an individual defined in §§ 404.1616(a) and 416.1016(a). This term does not include medical sources who provide consultative examinations for us. We use the abbreviation “MC” throughout this section to designate a medical consultant.
b.
Persistent
means that the longitudinal clinical record shows that, with few exceptions, the required finding(s) has been present, or is expected to be present, for a continuous period of at least 12 months, such that a pattern of continuing severity is established.
c.
Recurrent
means that the longitudinal clinical record shows that, within a consecutive 12-month period, the finding(s) occurs at least three times, with intervening periods of improvement of sufficient duration that it is clear that separate events are involved.
d.
Appropriate medically acceptable imaging
means that the technique used is the proper one to evaluate and diagnose the impairment and is commonly recognized as accurate for assessing the cited finding.
e.
A consecutive 12-month period
means a period of 12 consecutive months, all or part of which must occur within the period we are considering in connection with an application or continuing disability review.
f.
Currently present
means that the finding is present at the time of adjudication.
g.
Uncontrolled
means the impairment does not respond adequately to standard prescribed medical treatment.

# B. Documenting Cardiovascular Impairment
1.
What basic documentation do we need?
We need sufficiently detailed reports of history, physical examinations, laboratory studies, and any prescribed treatment and response to allow us to assess the severity and duration of your cardiovascular impairment. A longitudinal clinical record covering a period of not less than 3 months of observations and treatment is usually necessary, unless we can make a determination or decision based on the current evidence.
2.
Why is a longitudinal clinical record important?
We will usually need a longitudinal clinical record to assess the severity and expected duration of your impairment(s). If you have a listing-level impairment, you probably will have received medically prescribed treatment. Whenever there is evidence of such treatment, your longitudinal clinical record should include a description of the ongoing management and evaluation provided by your treating or other medical source. It should also include your response to this medical management, as well as information about the nature and severity of your impairment. The record will provide us with information on your functional status over an extended period of time and show whether your ability to function is improving, worsening, or unchanging.
3.
What if you have not received ongoing medical treatment?
a. You may not have received ongoing treatment or have an ongoing relationship with the medical community despite the existence of a severe impairment(s). In this situation, we will base our evaluation on the current objective medical evidence and the other evidence we have. If you do not receive treatment, you cannot show an impairment that meets the criteria of these listings. However, we may find you disabled because you have another impairment(s) that in combination with your cardiovascular impairment medically equals the severity of a listed impairment or that functionally equals the listings.
b. Unless we can decide your claim favorably on the basis of the current evidence, a longitudinal record is still important. In rare instances where there is no or insufficient longitudinal evidence, we may purchase a consultative examination(s) to help us establish the severity and duration of your impairment.
4.
When will we wait before we ask for more evidence?
a. We will wait when we have information showing that your impairment is not yet stable and the expected change in your impairment might affect our determination or decision. In these situations, we need to wait to properly evaluate the severity and duration of your impairment during a stable period. Examples of when we might wait are:
(i) If you have had a recent acute event; for example, acute rheumatic fever.
(ii) If you have recently had a corrective cardiac procedure; for example, open-heart surgery.
(iii) If you have started new drug therapy and your response to this treatment has not yet been established; for example, beta-blocker therapy for dilated congestive cardiomyopathy.
b. In these situations, we will obtain more evidence 3 months following the event before we evaluate your impairment. However, we will not wait if we have enough information
to make a determination or decision based on all of the relevant evidence in your case.
5.
Will we purchase any studies?
In appropriate situations, we will purchase studies necessary to substantiate the diagnosis or to document the severity of your impairment, generally after we have evaluated the medical and other evidence we already have. We will not purchase studies involving exercise testing if there is significant risk involved or if there is another medical reason not to perform the test. We will follow sections 4.00C6, 4.00C7, 4.00C8, and 104.00B7 when we decide whether to purchase exercise testing. We will make a reasonable effort to obtain any additional studies from a qualified medical source in an office or center experienced in pediatric cardiac assessment. (See § 416.919g.)
6.
What studies will we not purchase?
We will not purchase any studies involving cardiac catheterization, such as coronary angiography, arteriograms, or electrophysiological studies. However, if the results of catheterization are part of the existing evidence we have, we will consider them together with the other relevant evidence. See 4.00C15a in part A.
7.
Will we use exercise tolerance tests (ETTs) for evaluating children with cardiovascular impairment?
a. ETTs, though increasingly used, are still less frequently indicated in children than in adults, and can rarely be performed successfully by children under 6 years of age. An ETT may be of value in the assessment of some arrhythmias, in the assessment of the severity of chronic heart failure, and in the assessment of recovery of function following cardiac surgery or other treatment.
b. We will purchase an ETT in a childhood claim only if we cannot make a determination or decision based on the evidence we have and an MC, preferably one with experience in the care of children with cardiovascular impairments, has determined that an ETT is needed to evaluate your impairment. We will not purchase an ETT if you are less than 6 years of age. If we do purchase an ETT for a child age 12 or younger, it must be performed by a qualified medical source in a specialty center for pediatric cardiology or other facility qualified to perform exercise tests of children.
c. For full details on ETT requirements and usage, see 4.00C in part A.

# C. Evaluating Chronic Heart Failure
1.
What is chronic heart failure (CHF)?
a.
CHF
is the inability of the heart to pump enough oxygenated blood to body tissues. This syndrome is characterized by symptoms and signs of pulmonary or systemic congestion (fluid retention) or limited cardiac output. Certain laboratory findings of cardiac functional and structural abnormality support the diagnosis of CHF.
b. CHF is considered in these listings as a single category whether due to atherosclerosis (narrowing of the arteries), cardiomyopathy, hypertension, or rheumatic, congenital, or other heart disease. However, if the CHF is the result of primary pulmonary hypertension secondary to disease of the lung (cor pulmonale), we will evaluate your impairment using 3.09 in the respiratory system listings in part A.
2.
What evidence of CHF do we need?
a. Cardiomegaly or ventricular dysfunction must be present and demonstrated by appropriate medically acceptable imaging, such as chest x-ray, echocardiography (M-Mode, 2-dimensional, and Doppler), radionuclide studies, or cardiac catheterization.
(i) Cardiomegaly is present when:
(
A
) Left ventricular diastolic dimension or systolic dimension is greater than 2 standard deviations above the mean for the child's body surface area;
(
B
) Left ventricular mass is greater than 2 standard deviations above the mean for the child's body surface area; or
(
C
) Chest x-ray (6 foot PA film) is indicative of cardiomegaly if the cardiothoracic ratio is over 60 percent at 1 year of age or less, or 55 percent or greater at more than 1 year of age.
(ii) Ventricular dysfunction is present when indices of left ventricular function, such as fractional shortening or ejection fraction (the percentage of the blood in the ventricle actually pumped out with each contraction), are greater than 2 standard deviations below the mean for the child's age. (Fractional shortening, also called shortening fraction, reflects the left ventricular systolic function in the absence of segmental wall motion abnormalities and has a linear correlation with ejection fraction. In children, fractional shortening is more commonly used than ejection fraction.)
(iii) However, these measurements alone do not reflect your functional capacity, which we evaluate by considering all of the relevant evidence.
(iv) Other findings on appropriate medically acceptable imaging may include increased pulmonary vascular markings, pleural effusion, and pulmonary edema. These findings need not be present on each report, since CHF may be controlled by prescribed treatment.
b. To establish that you have
chronic
heart failure, we require that your medical history and physical examination describe characteristic symptoms and signs of pulmonary or systemic congestion or of limited cardiac output associated with abnormal findings on appropriate medically acceptable imaging. When a remediable factor, such as arrhythmia, triggers an acute episode of heart failure, you may experience restored cardiac function, and a chronic impairment may not be present.
(i) Symptoms of congestion or of limited cardiac output include easy fatigue, weakness, shortness of breath (dyspnea), cough, or chest discomfort at rest or with activity. Children with CHF may also experience shortness of breath on lying flat (orthopnea) or episodes of shortness of breath that wake them from sleep (paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea). They may also experience cardiac arrhythmias resulting in palpitations, lightheadedness, or fainting. Fatigue or exercise intolerance in an infant may be manifested by prolonged feeding time, often associated with excessive respiratory effort and sweating.
(ii) During infancy, other manifestations of chronic heart failure may include repeated lower respiratory tract infections.
(iii) Signs of congestion may include hepatomegaly, ascites, increased jugular venous distention or pressure, rales, peripheral edema, rapid shallow breathing (tachypnea), or rapid weight gain. However, these signs need not be found on all examinations because fluid retention may be controlled by prescribed treatment.
3.
How do we evaluate growth failure due to CHF?
a. To evaluate growth failure due to CHF, we require documentation of the clinical findings of CHF described in 104.00C2 and the growth measurements in 104.02C within the same consecutive 12-month period. The dates of clinical findings may be different from the dates of growth measurements.
b. Under 104.02C, we use the appropriate table(s) under 105.08B in the digestive system to determine whether a child's growth is less than the third percentile.
(i) For children from birth to attainment of age 2, we use the weight-for-length table corresponding to the child's gender (Table I or Table II).
(ii) For children age 2 to attainment of age 18, we use the body mass index (BMI)-for-age table corresponding to the child's gender (Table III or Table IV).
(iii) BMI is the ratio of a child's weight to the square of his or her height. We calculate BMI using the formulas in the digestive disorders body system (105.00).

# D. Evaluating Congenital Heart Disease
1.
What is congenital heart disease?
Congenital heart disease is any abnormality of the heart or the major blood vessels that is present at birth. Examples include:
a.
Abnormalities of cardiac septation,
including ventricular septal defect or atrioventricular canal;
b.
Abnormalities resulting in cyanotic heart disease,
including tetralogy of Fallot or transposition of the great arteries;
c.
Valvular defects or obstructions to ventricular outflow,
including pulmonary or aortic stenosis or coarctation of the aorta; and
d.
Major abnormalities of ventricular development,
including hypoplastic left heart syndrome or pulmonary tricuspid atresia with hypoplastic right ventricle.
2.
How will we evaluate symptomatic congenital heart disease?
a. Because of improved treatment methods, more children with congenital heart disease are living longer. Although some types of congenital heart disease may be corrected by surgery, many children with treated congenital heart disease continue to have problems throughout their lives (symptomatic congenital heart disease). If you have congenital heart disease that results in chronic heart failure with evidence of ventricular dysfunction or in recurrent arrhythmias, we will evaluate your impairment under 104.02 or 104.05. Otherwise, we will evaluate your impairment under 104.06.
b. For 104.06A2, we will accept pulse oximetry measurements instead of arterial O
2
, but the arterial O
2
values are preferred, if available.
c. For 104.06D, examples of impairments that in most instances will require life-saving surgery or a combination of surgery and other major interventional procedures (for example, multiple “balloon” catheter procedures) before age 1 include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Hypoplastic left heart syndrome,
(ii) Critical aortic stenosis with neonatal heart failure,
(iii) Critical coarctation of the aorta, with or without associated anomalies,
(iv) Complete atrioventricular canal defects,
(v) Transposition of the great arteries,
(vi) Tetralogy of Fallot,
(vii) Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum,
(viii) Single ventricle,
(ix) Tricuspid atresia, and
(x) Multiple ventricular septal defects.

# E. Evaluating Arrhythmias
1.
What is an arrhythmia?
An
arrhythmia
is a change in the regular beat of the heart. Your heart may seem to skip a beat or beat irregularly, very quickly (tachycardia), or very slowly (bradycardia).
2.
What are the different types of arrhythmias?
a. There are many types of arrhythmias. Arrhythmias are identified by where they occur in the heart (atria or ventricles) and by what happens to the heart's rhythm when they occur.
b. Arrhythmias arising in the cardiac atria (upper chambers of the heart) are called atrial or supraventricular arrhythmias. Ventricular arrhythmias begin in the ventricles (lower chambers). In general, ventricular arrhythmias caused by heart disease are the most serious.
3.
How do we evaluate arrhythmias using 104.05?
a. We will use 104.05 when you have arrhythmias that are not fully controlled by medication, an implanted pacemaker, or an implanted cardiac defibrillator and you have uncontrolled recurrent episodes of syncope or near syncope. If your arrhythmias are controlled, we will evaluate your underlying heart disease using the appropriate listing. For other considerations when we evaluate arrhythmias in the presence of an implanted cardiac defibrillator, see 104.00E4.
b. We consider
near syncope
to be a period of altered consciousness, since syncope is a loss of consciousness or a faint. It is not merely a feeling of light-headedness, momentary weakness, or dizziness.
c. For purposes of 104.05, there must be a documented association between the syncope or near syncope and the recurrent arrhythmia. The recurrent arrhythmia, not some other cardiac or non-cardiac disorder, must be established as the cause of the associated symptom. This documentation of the association between the symptoms and the arrhythmia may come from the usual diagnostic methods, including Holter monitoring (also called ambulatory electrocardiography) and tilt-table testing with a concurrent ECG. Although an arrhythmia may be a coincidental finding on an ETT, we will not purchase an ETT to document the presence of a cardiac arrhythmia.
4.
What will we consider when you have an implanted cardiac defibrillator and you do not have arrhythmias that meet the requirements of 104.05?
a. Implanted cardiac defibrillators are used to prevent sudden cardiac death in children who have had, or are at high risk for, cardiac arrest from life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. The largest group of children at risk for sudden cardiac death consists of children with cardiomyopathy (ischemic or non-ischemic) and reduced ventricular function. However, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias can also occur in children with little or no ventricular dysfunction. The shock from the implanted cardiac defibrillator is a unique form of treatment; it rescues a child from what may have been cardiac arrest. However, as a consequence of the shock(s), children may experience psychological distress, which we may evaluate under the mental disorders listings in 112.00ff.
b. Most implantable cardiac defibrillators have rhythm-correcting and pacemaker capabilities. In some children, these functions may result in the termination of ventricular arrhythmias without an otherwise painful shock. (The shock is like being kicked in the chest.) Implanted cardiac defibrillators may deliver inappropriate shocks, often repeatedly, in response to benign arrhythmias or electrical malfunction. Also, exposure to strong electrical or magnetic fields, such as from MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), can trigger or reprogram an implanted cardiac defibrillator, resulting in inappropriate shocks. We must consider the frequency of, and the reason(s) for, the shocks when evaluating the severity and duration of your impairment.
c. In general, the exercise limitations imposed on children with an implanted cardiac defibrillator are those dictated by the underlying heart impairment. However, the exercise limitations may be greater when the implanted cardiac defibrillator delivers an inappropriate shock in response to the increase in heart rate with exercise, or when there is exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmia.

# F. Evaluating Other Cardiovascular Impairments
1.
What is ischemic heart disease (IHD) and how will we evaluate it in children? IHD
results when one or more of your coronary arteries is narrowed or obstructed or, in rare situations, constricted due to vasospasm, interfering with the normal flow of blood to your heart muscle (ischemia). The obstruction may be the result of an embolus, a thrombus, or plaque. When heart muscle tissue dies as a result of the reduced blood supply, it is called a myocardial infarction (heart attack). Ischemia is rare in children, but when it occurs, its effects on children are the same as on adults. If you have IHD, we will evaluate it under 4.00E and 4.04 in part A.
2.
How will we evaluate hypertension?
Because
hypertension
(high blood pressure) generally causes disability through its effects on other body systems, we will evaluate it by reference to the specific body system(s) affected (heart, brain, kidneys, or eyes) when we consider its effects under the listings. We will also consider any limitations imposed by your hypertension when we consider whether you have an impairment that functionally equals the listings.
3.
What is cardiomyopathy and how will we evaluate it? Cardiomyopathy
is a disease of the heart muscle. The heart loses its ability to pump blood (heart failure), and in some instances, heart rhythm is disturbed, leading to irregular heartbeats (arrhythmias). Usually, the exact cause of the muscle damage is never found (idiopathic cardiomyopathy). There are various types of cardiomyopathy, which fall into two major categories:
Ischemic
and
nonischemic
cardiomyopathy. Ischemic cardiomyopathy typically refers to heart muscle damage that results from coronary artery disease, including heart attacks. Nonischemic cardiomyopathy includes several types: Dilated, hypertrophic, and restrictive. We will evaluate cardiomyopathy under 4.04 in part A, 104.02, 104.05, or 111.06, depending on its effects on you.
4.
How will we evaluate valvular heart disease?
We will evaluate valvular heart disease under the listing appropriate for its effect on you. Thus, we may use 4.04 in part A, 104.02, 104.05, 104.06, or an appropriate neurological listing in 111.00ff.
5.
What do we consider when we evaluate heart transplant recipients?
a. After your heart transplant, we will consider you disabled for 1 year following the surgery because there is a greater likelihood of rejection of the organ and infection during the first year.
b. However, heart transplant patients generally meet our definition of disability before they undergo transplantation. We will determine the onset of your disability based on the facts in your case.
c. We will not assume that you became disabled when your name was placed on a transplant waiting list. This is because you may be placed on a waiting list soon after diagnosis of the cardiac disorder that may eventually require a transplant. Physicians recognize that candidates for transplantation often have to wait months or even years before a suitable donor heart is found, so they place their patients on the list as soon as permitted.
d. When we do a continuing disability review to determine whether you are still disabled, we will evaluate your residual impairment(s), as shown by symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings, including any side effects of medication. We will consider any remaining symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings indicative of cardiac dysfunction in deciding whether medical improvement (as defined in § 416.994a) has occurred.
6.
How will we evaluate chronic rheumatic fever or rheumatic heart disease?
The diagnosis should be made in accordance with the current revised Jones criteria for guidance in the diagnosis of rheumatic fever. We will evaluate persistence of rheumatic fever activity under 104.13. If you have evidence of chronic heart failure or recurrent arrhythmias associated with rheumatic heart disease, we will use 104.02 or 104.05.
7.
What is hyperlipidemia and how will we evaluate it? Hyperlipidemia
is the general term for an elevation of any or all of the lipids (fats or cholesterol) in the blood; for example, hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia, and hyperlipoproteinemia. These disorders of lipoprotein metabolism and transport can cause defects throughout the body. The effects most likely to interfere with function are those produced by atherosclerosis (narrowing of the arteries) and coronary artery disease. We will evaluate your lipoprotein disorder by considering its effects on you.
8.
How will we evaluate Kawasaki disease?
We will evaluate Kawasaki disease under the listing appropriate to its effects on you, which may include major coronary artery aneurysm or heart failure. A major coronary artery aneurysm may cause ischemia or arrhythmia, which we will evaluate under 4.04 in part A or 104.05. We will evaluate chronic heart failure under 104.02.
9.
What is lymphedema and how will we evaluate it?
a.
Lymphedema
is edema of the extremities due to a disorder of the lymphatic circulation; at its worst, it is called elephantiasis. Primary lymphedema is caused by abnormal development of lymph vessels and may be present at birth (congenital lymphedema), but more often develops during the teens (lymphedema praecox). Secondary lymphedema is due to obstruction or destruction of normal lymphatic channels due to tumor, surgery, repeated infections, or parasitic infection such as filariasis. Lymphedema most commonly affects one extremity.
b. Lymphedema does not meet the requirements of 4.11 in part A, although it may medically equal the severity of that listing. We will evaluate lymphedema by considering whether the underlying cause meets or medically equals any listing or whether the lymphedema medically equals a cardiovascular listing, such as 4.11, or a musculoskeletal disorders listing, such as 101.18. If no listing is met or medically equaled, we will evaluate any functional limitations imposed by your lymphedema when we consider whether you have an impairment that functionally equals the listings.
10.
What is Marfan syndrome and how will we evaluate it?
a. Marfan syndrome is a genetic connective tissue disorder that affects multiple body systems, including the skeleton, eyes, heart, blood vessels, nervous system, skin, and lungs. There is no specific laboratory test to diagnose Marfan syndrome. The diagnosis is generally made by medical history, including family history, physical examination, including an evaluation of the ratio of arm/leg size to trunk size, a slit lamp eye examination, and a heart test(s), such as an echocardiogram. In some cases, a genetic analysis may be useful, but such analyses may not provide any additional helpful information.
b. The effects of Marfan syndrome can range from mild to severe. In most cases, the disorder progresses as you age. Most individuals with Marfan syndrome have abnormalities associated with the heart and blood vessels. Your heart's mitral valve may leak, causing a heart murmur. Small leaks may not cause symptoms, but larger ones may cause shortness of breath, fatigue, and palpitations. Another effect is that the wall of the aorta may be weakened and stretch (aortic dilation). This aortic dilation may tear, dissect, or rupture, causing serious heart problems or sometimes sudden death. We will evaluate the manifestations of your
Marfan syndrome under the appropriate body system criteria, such as 4.10 in part A, or if necessary consider the functional limitations imposed by your impairment.

# G. Other Evaluation Issues
1.
What effect does obesity have on the cardiovascular system and how will we evaluate it?
Obesity is a medically determinable impairment that is often associated with disorders of the cardiovascular system. Disturbance of this system can be a major cause of disability in children with obesity. Obesity may affect the cardiovascular system because of the increased workload the additional body mass places on the heart. Obesity may make it harder for the chest and lungs to expand. This can mean that the respiratory system must work harder to provide needed oxygen. This in turn would make the heart work harder to pump blood to carry oxygen to the body. Because the body would be working harder at rest, its ability to perform additional work would be less than would otherwise be expected. Thus, the combined effects of obesity with cardiovascular impairments can be greater than the effects of each of the impairments considered separately. We must consider any additional and cumulative effects of obesity when we determine whether you have a severe cardiovascular impairment or a listing-level cardiovascular impairment (or a combination of impairments that medically equals a listing), and when we determine whether your impairment(s) functionally equals the listings.
2.
How do we relate treatment to functional status?
In general, conclusions about the severity of a cardiovascular impairment cannot be made on the basis of type of treatment rendered or anticipated. The amount of function restored and the time required for improvement after treatment (medical, surgical, or a prescribed program of progressive physical activity) vary with the nature and extent of the disorder, the type of treatment, and other factors. Depending upon the timing of this treatment in relation to the alleged onset date of disability, we may need to defer evaluation of the impairment for a period of up to 3 months from the date treatment began to permit consideration of treatment effects, unless we can make a determination or decision using the evidence we have. See 104.00B4.
3.
How do we evaluate impairments that do not meet one of the cardiovascular listings?
a. These listings are only examples of common cardiovascular disorders that we consider severe enough to result in marked and severe functional limitations. If your severe impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system.
b. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. (See § 416.926.) If you have a severe impairment(s) that does not meet or medically equal the criteria of a listing, we will consider whether it functionally equals the listings. (See § 416.926a.) When we decide whether you continue to be disabled, we use the rules in § 416.994a.

# 104.01 Category of Impairments, Cardiovascular System
104.02.
Chronic heart failure
while on a regimen of prescribed treatment, with symptoms and signs described in 104.00C2, and with one of the following:
A. Persistent tachycardia at rest (see Table I);
OR
B. Persistent tachypnea at rest (see Table II) or markedly decreased exercise tolerance (see 104.00C2b);
OR
C. Growth failure as required in 1 or 2:
1.
For children from birth to attainment of age 2,
three weight-for-length measurements that are:
a. Within a consecutive 12-month period; and
b. At least 60 days apart; and
c. Less than the third percentile on the appropriate weight-for-length table under 105.08B1; or
2.
For children age 2 to attainment of age 18,
three BMI-for-age measurements that are:
a. Within a consecutive 12-month period; and
b. At least 60 days apart; and
c. Less than the third percentile on the appropriate BMI-for-age table under 105.08B2.
104.05
Recurrent arrhythmias,
not related to reversible causes such as electrolyte abnormalities or digitalis glycoside or antiarrhythmic drug toxicity, resulting in uncontrolled (see 104.00A3g), recurrent (see 104.00A3c) episodes of cardiac syncope or near syncope (see 104.00E3b), despite prescribed treatment (see 104.00B3 if there is no prescribed treatment), and documented by resting or ambulatory (Holter) electrocardiography, or by other appropriate medically acceptable testing, coincident with the occurrence of syncope or near syncope (see 104.00E3c).
104.06
Congenital heart disease,
documented by appropriate medically acceptable imaging (see 104.00A3d) or cardiac catheterization, with one of the following:
A. Cyanotic heart disease, with persistent, chronic hypoxemia as manifested by:
1. Hematocrit of 55 percent or greater on two evaluations 3 months or more apart within a consecutive 12-month period (see 104.00A3e); or
2. Arterial O
2
saturation of less than 90 percent in room air, or resting arterial PO
2
of 60 Torr or less; or
3. Hypercyanotic spells, syncope, characteristic squatting, or other incapacitating symptoms directly related to documented cyanotic heart disease; or
4. Exercise intolerance with increased hypoxemia on exertion.
OR
B. Secondary pulmonary vascular obstructive disease with pulmonary arterial systolic pressure elevated to at least 70 percent of the systemic arterial systolic pressure.
OR
C. Symptomatic acyanotic heart disease, with ventricular dysfunction interfering very seriously with the ability to independently initiate, sustain, or complete activities.
OR
D. For infants under 12 months of age at the time of filing, with life-threatening congenital heart impairment that will require or already has required surgical treatment in the first year of life, and the impairment is expected to be disabling (because of residual impairment following surgery, or the recovery time required, or both) until the attainment of at least 1 year of age, consider the infant to be under disability until the attainment of at least age 1; thereafter, evaluate impairment severity with reference to the appropriate listing.
104.09
Heart transplant.
Consider under a disability for 1 year following surgery; thereafter, evaluate residual impairment under the appropriate listing.
104.13
Rheumatic heart disease,
with persistence of rheumatic fever activity manifested by significant murmurs(s), cardiac enlargement or ventricular dysfunction (see 104.00C2a), and other associated abnormal laboratory findings; for example, an elevated sedimentation rate or ECG findings, for 6 months or more in a consecutive 12-month period (see 104.00A3e). Consider under a disability for 18 months from the established onset of impairment, then evaluate any residual impairment(s).

# 105.00 Digestive Disorders
A.
Which digestive disorders do we evaluate in this body system?
We evaluate digestive disorders that result in severe dysfunction of the liver, pancreas, and gastrointestinal tract (the large, muscular tube that extends from the mouth to the anus, where the movement of muscles, along with the release of hormones and enzymes, allows for the digestion of food) in this body system. Examples of these disorders and the listings we use to evaluate them include chronic liver disease (105.05), inflammatory bowel disease (105.06), and intestinal failure (105.07). We also use this body system to evaluate gastrointestinal hemorrhaging from any cause (105.02), growth failure due to any digestive disorder (105.08), liver transplantation (105.09), need for supplemental daily enteral feeding via a gastrostomy, duodenostomy, or jejunostomy due to any cause for children who have not attained age 3 (105.10), small intestine transplantation (105.11), and pancreas transplantation (105.12). We evaluate cancers affecting the digestive system under the listings in 113.00.
B.
What evidence do we need to evaluate your digestive disorder?
1.
General.
To establish that you have a digestive disorder, we need medical evidence about the existence of your digestive disorder and its severity. Medical evidence should include your medical history, physical examination findings, operative reports, and relevant laboratory findings.
2.
Laboratory findings.
We need laboratory reports such as results of imaging (see 105.00B3), endoscopy, and other diagnostic procedures. We may also need clinical laboratory and pathology results.
3.
Imaging
refers to medical imaging techniques, such as x-ray, ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, and computerized tomography. The imaging must be consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice as a proper technique to support the evaluation of the disorder.
C.
What is chronic liver disease (CLD), and how do we evaluate it under 105.05?
1.
General.
CLD is loss of liver function with cell necrosis (cell death), inflammation, or scarring of the liver that persists for more than 6 months. Common causes of CLD in children include chronic infection with hepatitis B virus or hepatitis C virus, autoimmune hepatitis, and metabolic disease.
a. We will evaluate your signs of CLD, such as jaundice, changes in size of the liver and spleen, ascites, peripheral edema, and altered mental status. We will also evaluate your symptoms of CLD, such as pruritus (itching), fatigue, nausea, loss of appetite, and sleep disturbances when we assess the severity of your impairment(s) and how it affects your ability to function. In the absence of evidence of a chronic liver impairment, episodes of acute liver disease do not meet the requirements of 105.05.
b.
Laboratory findings
of your CLD may include decreased serum albumin, increased International Normalized Ratio (INR), arterial deoxygenation (hypoxemia), increased serum creatinine, oliguria (reduced urine output), or sodium retention. Another laboratory finding that may be included in the evidence is a liver biopsy. If you have had a liver biopsy, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain the results; however, we will not purchase a liver biopsy.
2.
Manifestations of CLD.
a.
Gastrointestinal hemorrhaging
(105.05A), as a consequence of cirrhosis and high pressure in the liver's portal venous system, may occur from varices (dilated veins in the esophagus or the stomach) or from portal hypertensive gastropathy (abnormal mucosal changes in the stomach). When gastrointestinal hemorrhaging is due to a cause other than CLD, we evaluate it under 105.02. The phrase “consider under a disability for 1 year” in 105.02 and 105.05A does not refer to the date on which your disability began, only to the date on which we must reevaluate whether your impairment(s) continues to meet a listing or is otherwise disabling. We determine the onset of your disability based on the facts of your case.
b.
Ascites or hydrothorax
(105.05B) is a pathologic accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity (ascites) or pleural space (hydrothorax). Ascites or hydrothorax may be diagnosed by removing some of the fluid with needle aspiration (paracentesis or thoracentesis), physical examination, or imaging. The most common causes of ascites are portal hypertension and low serum albumin resulting from CLD. We evaluate other causes of ascites and hydrothorax that are unrelated to CLD, such as congestive heart failure and cancer, under the listings in the affected body systems.
c.
Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP)
(105.05C) is an acute bacterial infection of peritoneal fluid and is most commonly associated with CLD. SBP is diagnosed by laboratory analysis of peritoneal fluid (obtained by paracentesis) that contains a neutrophil count (also called absolute neutrophil count) of at least 250 cells/mm
3
. 105.05C is satisfied with one evaluation documenting peritoneal infection. We evaluate other causes of peritonitis that are unrelated to CLD, such as tuberculosis, malignancy, and perforated bowel, under the listings in the affected body systems.
d.
Hepatorenal syndrome
(105.05D) is renal failure associated with CLD in the absence of underlying kidney pathology. Findings associated with hepatorenal syndrome include elevation of serum creatinine, sodium retention with low urinary sodium excretion, and oliguria. We evaluate renal dysfunction with known underlying kidney pathology, such as glomerulonephritis, tubular necrosis, and renal infections, under the listings in 106.00.
e.
Hepatopulmonary syndrome
(105.05E) is arterial deoxygenation due to intrapulmonary vascular dilation and arteriovenous shunting associated with CLD. Clinical findings of hepatopulmonary syndrome include platypnea (shortness of breath relieved when lying down) and orthodeoxia (low arterial blood oxygen while in the upright position), when presenting in the context of CLD. We evaluate pulmonary dysfunction with known underlying respiratory pathology, such as asthma, pneumonia, and pulmonary infections, under the listings in 103.00.
(i) Under 105.05E1, we require a resting arterial blood gas (ABG) measurement obtained while you are breathing room air; that is, without oxygen supplementation. The ABG report must include the P
a
O
2
value, your name, the date of the test, and either the altitude or both the city and State of the test site.
(ii) We will not purchase the specialized imaging techniques described in 105.05E2; however, if you have had the test(s) at a time relevant to your claim, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain the report.
f.
Hepatic encephalopathy
(105.05F), also known as portosystemic encephalopathy, is a recurrent or chronic neuropsychiatric disorder associated with CLD.
(i) Under 105.05F2, we require documentation of a mental impairment associated with hepatic encephalopathy. A mental impairment can include abnormal behavior, changes in mental status, or an altered state of consciousness. Reports of abnormal behavior may show that you are experiencing delusions, paranoia, or hallucinations. Reports of changes in mental status may show change in sleep patterns, personality or mood changes, poor concentration, or poor judgment or cognitive dysfunction (for example, impaired memory, poor problem-solving ability, or attention deficits). Reports of altered state of consciousness may show that you are experiencing confusion, delirium, or stupor.
(ii) Signs and laboratory findings that document the severity of hepatic encephalopathy when not attributable to other causes may include a “flapping tremor” (asterixis), characteristic abnormalities found on an electroencephalogram (EEG), or abnormal serum albumin or coagulation values. We will not purchase an EEG; however, if you have had this test at a time relevant to your claim, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain the report for the purpose of establishing whether your impairment meets the criteria of 105.05F.
(iii) We will not evaluate acute encephalopathy under 105.05F if it results from conditions other than CLD. For example, we will evaluate acute encephalopathy caused by vascular events under the listings in 111.00 and acute encephalopathy caused by cancer under the listings in 113.00.
3.
SSA Chronic Liver Disease (SSA CLD) and SSA Chronic Liver Disease-Pediatric (SSA CLD-P) scores
(105.05G). Listing 105.05G1 requires two SSA CLD scores, each requiring three or four laboratory values. Listing 105.05G2 requires one SSA CLD-P score, which requires four parameters (three laboratory values and growth failure). The “date of the SSA CLD score” is the date of the earliest of the three or four laboratory values used for its calculation. The “date of the SSA CLD-P
score” is the date of the earliest of the three laboratory values used for its calculation. For 105.05G1, the date of the second SSA CLD score must be at least 60 days after the date of the first SSA CLD score and both scores must be within the required 12-month period. If you have the two SSA CLD scores required by 105.05G1, we will find that your impairment meets the criteria of the listing from at least the date of the first SSA CLD score.
a.
SSA CLD score.
(i) If you are age 12 or older, we will calculate the SSA CLD score using a formula that includes up to four laboratory values: Serum creatinine (mg/dL), total bilirubin (mg/dL), INR, and under certain conditions, serum sodium (mmol/L). The SSA CLD score calculation contains at least one, and sometimes two, parts, as described in (a) and (b).
(a) The initial calculation is:
SSA CLD
i
=
9.57 × [log
e
(serum creatinine mg/dL)]
+ 3.78 × [log
e
(serum total bilirubin mg/dL)]
+ 11.2 × [log
e
(INR)]
+ 6.43
rounded to the nearest whole integer.
(b) If the value from the initial calculation is 11 or below, the SSA CLD score will be the SSA CLD
i
value. If the value from the initial calculation is greater than 11, the SSA CLD score will be re-calculated as:
SSA CLD =
SSA CLD
i
+ 1.32 × (137 − serum sodium mmol/L)
− [0.033 × SSA CLD
i
× (137 − serum sodium mmol/L)]
(c) We round the results of your SSA CLD score calculation to the nearest whole integer to arrive at your SSA CLD score.
(ii) For any SSA CLD score calculation, all of the required laboratory values (serum creatinine, serum total bilirubin, INR, and serum sodium) must have been obtained within a continuous 30-day period.
(a) We round values for serum creatinine (mg/dL), serum total bilirubin (mg/dL), or INR less than 1.0 up to 1.0 to calculate your SSA CLD score.
(b) We round values for serum creatinine (mg/dL) greater than 4.0 down to 4.0 to calculate your SSA CLD score.
(c) If there are multiple laboratory values within the 30-day interval for serum creatinine (mg/dL), serum total bilirubin (mg/dL), or INR, we use the
highest
value to calculate your SSA CLD score. We will not use any INR values derived from testing done while you are on anticoagulant treatment in our SSA CLD calculation.
(d) If there are multiple laboratory values within the 30-day interval for serum sodium (mmol/L), we use the
lowest
value to calculate your SSA CLD score.
(e) If you are in renal failure or on renal dialysis within a week of any serum creatinine test in the period used for the SSA CLD calculation, we will use a serum creatinine value of 4.0, which is the maximum serum creatinine level allowed in the calculation, to calculate your SSA CLD score.
(f) If your serum sodium is less than 125 mmol/L, we will set your serum sodium to 125 mmol/L for purposes of calculation of the SSA CLD score. If your serum sodium is higher than 137 mmol/L, we will set your serum sodium to 137 mmol/L for purposes of calculation of the SSA CLD score.
(iii) When we indicate “log
e
” (also abbreviated “ln”) in the formula for the SSA CLD score calculation, we mean the “base e logarithm” or “natural logarithm” of the numerical laboratory value, not the “base 10 logarithm” or “common logarithm” (log) of the laboratory value, and not the actual laboratory value. For example, if a person has laboratory values of serum creatinine 1.4 mg/dL, serum total bilirubin 1.3 mg/dL, INR 1.32, and serum sodium 119 mmol/L, we compute the SSA CLD score as follows:
SSA CLD
i
=
9.57 × [log
e
(serum creatinine 1.4 mg/dL) = 0.336]
+ 3.78 × [log
e
(serum total bilirubin 1.3 mg/dL) = 0.262]
+ 11.2 × [log
e
(INR 1.32) = .278]
+ 6.43
= 3.22 + 0.99 + 3.11 + 6.43
= 13.75, which we round to an SSA CLD
i
score of 14.
Because the SSA CLD
i
score is over 11, we then move to the second step of calculating the SSA CLD:
SSA CLD =
14
+ 1.32 × (137−serum sodium 125 mmol/L)
−[0.033 × SSA CLD
i
14 × (137−serum sodium 125 mmol/L)
= 14 + 15.84−5.54
= 24.3, which we round to an SSA CLD score of 24.
b.
SSA CLD-P score
(i) We calculate the SSA CLD-P score using a formula that includes four parameters: Serum total bilirubin (mg/dL), INR, serum albumin (g/dL), and whether you have growth failure. The formula for the SSA CLD-P score calculation is:
4.80 × [log
e
(serum total bilirubin mg/dL)]
+ 18.57 × [log
e
(INR)]
−6.87 × [log
e
(serum albumin g/dL)]
+ 6.67 if you have growth failure (
−2 standard deviations for weight or height)
(ii) When we indicate “log
e
” in the formula for the SSA CLD-P score calculation, we mean the “base
e
logarithm” or “natural logarithm” (log
e
) of a numerical laboratory value, not the “base 10 logarithm” or “common logarithm” (log) of the laboratory value, and not the actual laboratory value. For example, if a female child is 4.0 years old, has growth failure, and has laboratory
values of serum total bilirubin 2.2 mg/dL, INR 1.0, and serum albumin 3.5 g/dL, we compute the SSA CLD-P score as follows:
4.80 × [log
e
(serum total bilirubin 2.2 mg/dL) = 0.788]
+ 18.57 × [log
e
(INR 1.0) = 0]
−6.87 × [log
e
(serum albumin 3.5 g/dL) = 1.253]
+ 6.67
= 3.78 + 0−8.61 + 6.67
= 1.84, which we round to an SSA CLD-P score of 2.
(iii) For an SSA CLD-P score calculation, all of the required laboratory values (serum total bilirubin, INR, and serum albumin) must have been obtained within a continuous 30-day period. We round any of the required laboratory values less than 1.0 up to 1.0 to calculate your SSA CLD-P score. If there are multiple laboratory values within the 30-day interval for any given laboratory test, we use the
highest
serum total bilirubin and INR values and the
lowest
serum albumin value to calculate the SSA CLD-P score. We will not use any INR values derived from testing done while you are on anticoagulant treatment in our SSA CLD-P calculation. We will not purchase INR values for children who have not attained age 12. If there is no INR value for a child under 12 within the applicable period, we will use an INR value of 1.1 to calculate the SSA CLD-P score. We round the results of your SSA CLD-P score calculation to the nearest whole integer to arrive at your SSA CLD-P score.
(iv) The weight and length/height measurements used for the calculation must be obtained within the same 30-day period as the laboratory values.
4.
Extrahepatic biliary atresia
(105.05H) presents itself in the first 2 months of life with persistent jaundice. To satisfy 105.05H, the diagnosis of extrahepatic biliary atresia must be confirmed by liver biopsy or intraoperative cholangiogram that shows obliteration of the extrahepatic biliary tree. Biliary atresia is usually treated surgically by portoenterostomy (for example, Kasai procedure). If this surgery is not performed in the first months of life or is not completely successful, liver transplantation is indicated. If you have received a liver transplant, we will evaluate your impairment under 105.09. The phrase “consider under a disability for 1 year” in 105.05H does not refer to the date on which your disability began, only to the date on which we must reevaluate whether your impairment(s) continues to meet a listing or is otherwise disabling. We determine the onset of your disability based on the facts of your case.
D.
What is inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and how do we evaluate it under 105.06?
1.
IBD
is a group of inflammatory conditions of the small intestine and colon. The most common IBD disorders are Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Remissions and exacerbations of variable duration are a hallmark of IBD.
2. We evaluate your signs and symptoms of IBD, such as diarrhea, fecal incontinence, rectal bleeding, abdominal pain, fatigue, fever, nausea, vomiting, arthralgia, abdominal tenderness, palpable abdominal mass (usually inflamed loops of bowel), and perianal disease (for example, fissure, fistulas, abscesses, or anal canal stenosis), when we assess the severity of your impairment(s). You may require supplemental daily nutrition due to IBD. There are two forms of supplemental daily nutrition we consider under 105.06B5: enteral nutrition (delivered directly to a part of your digestive system) via a gastrostomy, duodenostomy, or jejunostomy, and parenteral nutrition delivered via a central venous catheter. Enteral tube feedings delivered via nasal or oral tubes do not satisfy the requirement in 105.06B5.
3. Surgical diversion of the intestinal tract, including ileostomy and colostomy, does not very seriously interfere with age-appropriate functioning if you are able to maintain adequate nutrition and function of the stoma. However, if you are not able to maintain adequate nutrition, we will evaluate your impairment under 105.08.
4. IBD may be associated with significant extraintestinal manifestations in a variety of body systems. These include, but are not limited to, involvement of the eye (for example, uveitis, episcleritis, or iritis); hepatobiliary disease (for example, gallstones or primary sclerosing cholangitis); urologic disease (for example, kidney stones or obstructive hydronephrosis); skin involvement (for example, erythema nodosum or pyoderma gangrenosum); or non-destructive inflammatory arthritis. You may also have associated thromboembolic disorders or vascular disease. These manifestations may not correlate with the severity of your IBD. If your impairment does not meet any of the criteria of 105.06, we will consider the effects of your extraintestinal manifestations in determining whether you have an impairment(s) that meets or medically equals another listing, and when we determine whether your impairment(s) functionally equals the listings.
5. Examples of complications of IBD that may result in hospitalization include abscesses, intestinal perforation, toxic megacolon, infectious colitis, pyoderma gangrenosum, ureteral obstruction, primary sclerosing cholangitis, and hypercoagulable state (which may lead to thromboses or embolism).
E.
What is intestinal failure, and how do we evaluate it under 105.07?
1.
Intestinal failure
is a condition resulting in gut function below the minimum necessary for the absorption of macronutrients
or water and electrolytes, resulting in a requirement for intravenous supplementation (
i.e.,
parenteral nutrition) to maintain health. Examples of conditions that may result in intestinal failure include short bowel syndrome, extensive small bowel mucosal disease, and chronic motility disorders.
2.
Short bowel syndrome
is a malabsorption disorder that occurs when ischemic vascular insults (caused, for example, by volvulus or necrotizing enterocolitis), trauma, or IBD complications require(s) surgical resection of any amount of the small intestine, resulting in chronic malnutrition.
3.
Extensive small bowel mucosal disease
means that the mucosal surface of the small bowel does not efficiently absorb nutrients or loses nutrients. Common causes of small bowel mucosal disease include microvillous inclusion disease and tufting enteropathy.
4.
Chronic motility disorder
refers to a chronic disorder of the propulsion of gut content without fixed obstructions, causing intolerance to oral nutrition and inadequate nutritional intake. This type of disorder may also be known as a chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction (CIPO), because the gut dysfunction mimics that of an obstructed intestine, but without evidence of an actual obstruction. Primary CIPO may have an unknown underlying cause. Chronic motility disorders may also result from congenital, neuromuscular, or autoimmune conditions, such as gastroschisis, omphalocele, long segment Hirschprung's disease, Crohn's disease, and mitochondrial disorders.
5. For short bowel syndrome, we require a copy of the operative report that includes details of the surgical findings, or postoperative imaging indicating a resection of the small intestine. If we cannot get one of these reports, we need other medical reports that include details of the surgical findings. For other chronic motility disorders or extensive small bowel mucosal disease, we need medical reports that include details of your intestinal dysfunction. For any impairment evaluated under 105.07, we also need medical documentation that you are dependent on daily parenteral nutrition to provide most of your nutritional requirements.
F.
How do we evaluate growth failure due to any digestive disorder under 105.08?
1. To evaluate growth failure due to any digestive disorder, we require documentation of the laboratory findings of chronic nutritional deficiency described in 105.08A and the growth measurements in 105.08B within the same consecutive 12-month period. The dates of laboratory findings may be different from the dates of growth measurements. Impairments other than digestive disorders that cause weight loss should be evaluated under the appropriate body system. For instance, weight loss as a result of chronic kidney disease should be evaluated under our rules for genitourinary disorders (see 106.00), and weight loss as the result of an eating disorder should be evaluated under our rules for mental disorders (see 112.00). However, if you develop a digestive disorder as the result of your other impairment, we will evaluate the acquired digestive disorder under our rules for digestive disorders.
2. Under 105.08B, we evaluate a child's growth failure by using the appropriate table for age and gender.
a. For children from birth to attainment of age 2, we use the weight-for-length table (see Table I or Table II).
b. For children age 2 to attainment of age 18, we use the body mass index (BMI)-for-age table (see Table III or Table IV).
c. BMI is the ratio of your weight to the square of your height. We calculate BMI using one of the following formulas:
English Formula
BMI = [Weight in Pounds/(Height in Inches × Height in Inches)] × 703
Metric Formulas
BMI = Weight in Kilograms/(Height in Meters × Height in Meters)
BMI = [Weight in Kilograms/(Height in Centimeters × Height in Centimeters)] × 10,000
G.
How do we evaluate digestive organ transplantation?
If you receive a liver (105.09), small intestine (105.11), or pancreas (105.12) transplant, we will consider you disabled under the listing for 1 year from the date of the transplant. After that, we evaluate your residual impairment(s) by considering the adequacy of your post-transplant function, the frequency and severity of any rejection episodes you have, complications in other body systems, and adverse treatment effects. People who receive digestive organ transplants generally have impairments that meet our definition of disability before they undergo transplantation. The phrase “consider under a disability for 1 year” in 105.09, 105.11, and 105.12 does not refer to the date on which your disability began, only to the date on which we must reevaluate whether your impairment(s) continues to meet a listing or is otherwise disabling. We determine the onset of your disability based on the facts of your case.
H.
How do we evaluate the need for supplemental daily enteral feeding via a gastrostomy, duodenostomy, or jejunostomy?
We evaluate the need for supplemental daily enteral feeding via a gastrostomy, duodenostomy, or jejunostomy in children who have not attained age 3 under 105.10 regardless of the medical reason for the stoma. Enteral tube feedings delivered via nasal or oral tubes do not satisfy the requirement in 105.10. After a child attains age 3, we evaluate growth failure due to any digestive disorder under 105.08, IBD
requiring supplemental daily enteral or parenteral nutrition under 105.06, or other medical or developmental disorders under another digestive disorders listing or under a listing in an affected body system(s).
I.
How do we evaluate esophageal stricture or stenosis?
Esophageal stricture or stenosis (narrowing) from congenital atresia (absence or abnormal closure of a tubular body organ) or destructive esophagitis may result in malnutrition or the need for gastrostomy placement, which we evaluate under 105.08 or 105.10. Esophageal stricture or stenosis may also result in complications such as pneumonias due to frequent aspiration, or difficulty in maintaining nutritional status short of listing level severity. While these individual complications usually do not meet the listing criteria, a combination of your impairments may medically equal a listing or functionally equal the listings.
J.
How do we evaluate your digestive disorder if there is no record of ongoing treatment?
If there is no record of ongoing treatment despite the existence of a severe impairment(s), we will assess the severity and duration of your digestive disorder based on the current medical and other evidence in your case record. If there is no record of ongoing treatment, you may not be able to show an impairment that meets a digestive disorders listing, but your impairment may medically equal a listing, or be disabling based on our rules for functional equivalence.
K.
How do we evaluate your digestive disorder if there is evidence establishing a substance use disorder?
If we find that you are disabled and there is medical evidence in your case record establishing that you have a substance use disorder, we will determine whether your substance use disorder is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability. See § 416.935 of this chapter. Digestive disorders resulting from drug or alcohol use are often chronic in nature and will not necessarily improve with cessation in drug or alcohol use.
L.
How do we evaluate digestive disorders that do not meet one of these listings?
1. These listings are only examples of common digestive disorders that we consider severe enough to result in marked and severe functional limitations. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. See § 416.926 of this chapter. Digestive disorders may be associated with disorders in other body systems, and we consider the combined effects of multiple impairments when we determine whether they medically equal a listing. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, we will also consider whether it functionally equals the listings. See § 416.926a of this chapter. We use the rules in § 416.994a of this chapter when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.
105.01 Category of Impairments, Digestive Disorders
105.02
Gastrointestinal hemorrhaging from any cause, requiring three blood transfusions
of at least 10 cc of blood/kg of body weight per transfusion, within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 30 days apart. Consider under a disability for 1 year following the last documented transfusion; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).
105.03-105.04 [Reserved]
105.05
Chronic liver disease (CLD)
(see 105.00C) with A, B, C, D, E, F, G, or H:
A. Hemorrhaging from esophageal, gastric, or ectopic varices, or from portal hypertensive gastropathy (see 105.00C2a), documented by imaging (see 105.00B3); resulting in 1 and 2:
1. Hemodynamic instability indicated by signs such as pallor (pale skin), diaphoresis (profuse perspiration), rapid pulse, low blood pressure, postural hypotension (pronounced fall in blood pressure when arising to an upright position from lying down), or syncope (fainting); and
2. Requiring hospitalization for transfusion of at least 10 cc of blood/kg of body weight. Consider under a disability for 1 year following the documented transfusion; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).

# OR
B. Ascites or hydrothorax not attributable to other causes (see 105.00C2b), present on two evaluations within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 60 days apart. Each evaluation must document the ascites or hydrothorax by 1, 2, or 3:
1. Paracentesis; or
2. Thoracentesis; or
3. Imaging or physical examination with a or b:
a. Serum albumin of 3.0 g/dL or less; or
b. INR of at least 1.5.

# OR
C. Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (see 105.00C2c) documented by peritoneal fluid containing a neutrophil count of at least 250 cells/mm
3
.

# OR
D. Hepatorenal syndrome (see 105.00C2d) documented by 1, 2, or 3:
1. Serum creatinine elevation of at least 2 mg/dL; or
2. Oliguria with 24-hour urine output less than 1 mL/kg/hr; or
3. Sodium retention with urine sodium less than 10 mEq per liter.

# OR
E. Hepatopulmonary syndrome (see 105.00C2e) documented by 1 or 2:
1. Arterial P
a
O
2
measured by an ABG test, while at rest, breathing room air, less than or equal to:
a. 60 mm Hg, at test sites less than 3,000 feet above sea level; or
b. 55 mm Hg, at test sites from 3,000 through 6,000 feet above sea level; or
c. 50 mm Hg, at test sites over 6,000 feet above sea level; or
2. Intrapulmonary arteriovenous shunting as shown on contrast-enhanced echocardiography or macroaggregated albumin lung perfusion scan.

# OR
F. Hepatic encephalopathy (see 105.00C2f) with documentation of abnormal behavior, cognitive dysfunction, changes in mental status, or altered state of consciousness (for example, confusion, delirium, stupor, or coma), present on two evaluations within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 60 days apart and either 1 or 2:
1. History of transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) or other surgical portosystemic shunt; or
2. One of the following on at least two evaluations at least 60 days apart within the same consecutive 12-month period as in F:
a. Asterixis or other fluctuating physical neurological abnormalities; or
b. EEG demonstrating triphasic slow wave activity; or
c. Serum albumin of 3.0 g/dL or less; or
d. INR of 1.5 or greater.

# OR
G. SSA CLD or SSA CLD-P scores (see 105.00C3):
1. For children age 12 or older, two SSA CLD scores of at least 20 within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 60 days apart. Consider under a disability from at least the date of the first score; or
2. For children who have not attained age 12, one SSA CLD-P score of at least 11.

# OR
H. Extrahepatic biliary atresia as diagnosed on liver biopsy or intraoperative cholangiogram (see 105.00C4). Consider under a disability for 1 year following diagnosis; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).
105.06
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
(see 105.00D) documented by endoscopy, biopsy, imaging, or operative findings
and
demonstrated by A or B:
A. Obstruction of stenotic areas (not adhesions) in the small intestine or colon with proximal dilatation, confirmed by imaging or in surgery, requiring two hospitalizations for intestinal decompression or for surgery, within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 60 days apart.

# OR
B. Two of the following occurring within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 60 days apart:
1. Anemia with hemoglobin less than 10.0 g/dL, present on at least two evaluations at least 60 days apart; or
2. Serum albumin of 3.0 g/dL or less, present on at least two evaluations at least 60 days apart; or
3. Clinically documented tender abdominal mass palpable on physical examination with abdominal pain or cramping; or
4. Perianal disease with a draining abscess or fistula; or
5. Need for supplemental daily enteral nutrition via a gastrostomy, duodenostomy, or jejunostomy, or daily parenteral nutrition via a central venous catheter (see 105.10 for children who have not attained age 3).
105.07
Intestinal failure
(see 105.00E) due to short bowel syndrome, chronic motility disorders, or extensive small bowel mucosal disease, resulting in dependence on daily parenteral nutrition via a central venous catheter for at least 12 months.
105.08
Growth failure due to any digestive disorder
(see 105.00F), documented by A and B:
A. Chronic nutritional deficiency present on two evaluations within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 60 days apart documented by 1 or 2:
1. Anemia with hemoglobin less than 10.0 g/dL; or
2. Serum albumin of 3.0 g/dL or less.

# AND
B. Growth failure as required in 1 or 2:
1.
For children from birth to attainment of age 2,
three weight-for-length measurements that are:
a. Within a consecutive 12-month period; and
b. At least 60 days apart; and
c. Less than the third percentile values in Table I or Table II; or
Table I—Males Birth to Attainment of Age 2
[Third percentile values for weight-for-length]
Length
(centimeters)
Weight
(kilograms)
Length
(centimeters)
Weight
(kilograms)
Length
(centimeters)
Weight
(kilograms)
45.0
1.597
64.5
6.132
84.5
10.301
45.5
1.703
65.5
6.359
85.5
10.499
46.5
1.919
66.5
6.584
86.5
10.696
47.5
2.139
67.5
6.807
87.5
10.895
48.5
2.364
68.5
7.027
88.5
11.095
49.5
2.592
69.5
7.245
89.5
11.296
50.5
2.824
70.5
7.461
90.5
11.498
51.5
3.058
71.5
7.674
91.5
11.703
52.5
3.294
72.5
7.885
92.5
11.910
53.5
3.532
73.5
8.094
93.5
12.119
54.5
3.771
74.5
8.301
94.5
12.331
55.5
4.010
75.5
8.507
95.5
12.546
56.5
4.250
76.5
8.710
96.5
12.764
57.5
4.489
77.5
8.913
97.5
12.987
58.5
4.728
78.5
9.113
98.5
13.213
59.5
4.966
79.5
9.313
99.5
13.443
60.5
5.203
80.5
9.512
100.5
13.678
61.5
5.438
81.5
9.710
101.5
13.918
62.5
5.671
82.5
9.907
102.5
14.163
63.5
5.903
83.5
10.104
103.5
14.413
Table II—Females Birth to Attainment of Age 2
[Third percentile values for weight-for-length]
Length
(centimeters)
Weight
(kilograms)
Length
(centimeters)
Weight
(kilograms)
Length
(centimeters)
Weight
(kilograms)
45.0
1.613
64.5
5.985
84.5
10.071
45.5
1.724
65.5
6.200
85.5
10.270
46.5
1.946
66.5
6.413
86.5
10.469
47.5
2.171
67.5
6.625
87.5
10.670
48.5
2.397
68.5
6.836
88.5
10.871
49.5
2.624
69.5
7.046
89.5
11.074
50.5
2.852
70.5
7.254
90.5
11.278
51.5
3.081
71.5
7.461
91.5
11.484
52.5
3.310
72.5
7.667
92.5
11.691
53.5
3.538
73.5
7.871
93.5
11.901
54.5
3.767
74.5
8.075
94.5
12.112
55.5
3.994
75.5
8.277
95.5
12.326
56.5
4.220
76.5
8.479
96.5
12.541
57.5
4.445
77.5
8.679
97.5
12.760
58.5
4.669
78.5
8.879
98.5
12.981
59.5
4.892
79.5
9.078
99.5
13.205
60.5
5.113
80.5
9.277
100.5
13.431
61.5
5.333
81.5
9.476
101.5
13.661
62.5
5.552
82.5
9.674
102.5
13.895
63.5
5.769
83.5
9.872
103.5
14.132
2.
For children age 2 to attainment of age 18,
three BMI-for-age measurements that are:
a. Within a consecutive 12-month period; and
b. At least 60 days apart; and
c. Less than the third percentile value in Table III or Table IV.
Table III—Males Age 2 to Attainment of Age 18
[Third percentile values for BMI-for-age]
Age
(yrs. and mos.)
BMI
Age
(yrs. and mos.)
BMI
Age
(yrs. and mos.)
BMI
2.0 to 2.1
14.5
10.11 to 11.2
14.3
14.9 to 14.10
16.1
2.2 to 2.4
14.4
11.3 to 11.5
14.4
14.11 to 15.0
16.2
2.5 to 2.7
14.3
11.6 to 11.8
14.5
15.1 to 15.3
16.3
2.8 to 2.11
14.2
11.9 to 11.11
14.6
15.4 to 15.5
16.4
3.0 to 3.2
14.1
12.0 to 12.1
14.7
15.6 to 15.7
16.5
3.3 to 3.6
14.0
12.2 to 12.4
14.8
15.8 to 15.9
16.6
3.7 to 3.11
13.9
12.5 to 12.7
14.9
15.10 to 15.11
16.7
4.0 to 4.5
13.8
12.8 to 12.9
15.0
16.0 to 16.1
16.8
4.6 to 5.0
13.7
12.10 to 13.0
15.1
16.2 to 16.3
16.9
5.1 to 6.0
13.6
13.1 to 13.2
15.2
16.4 to 16.5
17.0
6.1 to 7.6
13.5
13.3 to 13.4
15.3
16.6 to 16.8
17.1
7.7 to 8.6
13.6
13.5 to 13.7
15.4
16.9 to 16.10
17.2
8.7 to 9.1
13.7
13.8 to 13.9
15.5
16.11 to 17.0
17.3
9.2 to 9.6
13.8
13.10 to 13.11
15.6
17.1 to 17.2
17.4
9.7 to 9.11
13.9
14.0 to 14.1
15.7
17.3 to 17.5
17.5
10.0 to 10.3
14.0
14.2 to 14.4
15.8
17.6 to 17.7
17.6
10.4 to 10.7
14.1
14.5 to 14.6
15.9
17.8 to 17.9
17.7
10.8 to 10.10
14.2
14.7 to 14.8
16.0
17.10 to 17.11
17.8
Table IV—Females Age 2 to Attainment of Age 18
[Third percentile values for BMI-for-age]
Age
(yrs. and mos.)
BMI
Age
(yrs. and mos.)
BMI
Age
(yrs. and mos.)
BMI
2.0 to 2.2
14.1
10.8 to 10.10
14.0
14.3 to 14.5
15.6
2.3 to 2.6
14.0
10.11 to 11.2
14.1
14.6 to 14.7
15.7
2.7 to 2.10
13.9
11.3 to 11.5
14.2
14.8 to 14.9
15.8
2.11 to 3.2
13.8
11.6 to 11.7
14.3
14.10 to 15.0
15.9
3.3 to 3.6
13.7
11.8 to 11.10
14.4
15.1 to 15.2
16.0
3.7 to 3.11
13.6
11.11 to 12.1
14.5
15.3 to 15.5
16.1
4.0 to 4.4
13.5
12.2 to 12.4
14.6
15.6 to 15.7
16.2
4.5 to 4.11
13.4
12.5 to 12.6
14.7
15.8 to 15.10
16.3
5.0 to 5.9
13.3
12.7 to 12.9
14.8
15.11 to 16.0
16.4
5.10 to 7.6
13.2
12.10 to 12.11
14.9
16.1 to 16.3
16.5
7.7 to 8.4
13.3
13.0 to 13.2
15.0
16.4 to 16.6
16.6
8.5 to 8.10
13.4
13.3 to 13.4
15.1
16.7 to 16.9
16.7
8.11 to 9.3
13.5
13.5 to 13.7
15.2
16.10 to 17.0
16.8
9.4 to 9.8
13.6
13.8 to 13.9
15.3
17.1 to 17.3
16.9
9.9 to 10.0
13.7
13.10 to 14.0
15.4
17.4 to 17.7
17.0
10.1 to 10.4
13.8
14.1 to 14.2
15.5
17.8 to 17.11
17.1
10.5 to 10.7
13.9
105.09
Liver transplantation
(see 105.00G). Consider under a disability for 1 year from the date of the transplant; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).
105.10
Need for supplemental daily enteral feeding via a gastrostomy, duodenostomy, or jejunostomy
(see 105.00H) due to any cause, for children who have not attained age 3; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).
105.11
Small intestine transplantation
(see 105.00G). Consider under a disability for 1 year from the date of the transplant; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).
105.12
Pancreas transplantation
(see 105.00G). Consider under a disability for 1 year from the date of the transplant; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).

# 106.00 Genitourinary Disorders

# A. Which disorders do we evaluate under these listings?
We evaluate genitourinary disorders resulting in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Examples of such disorders include chronic glomerulonephritis, hypertensive nephropathy, diabetic nephropathy, chronic obstructive uropathy, and hereditary nephropathies. We also evaluate nephrotic syndrome due to glomerular dysfunction, and congenital genitourinary disorders, such as ectopic ureter, exstrophic urinary bladder, urethral valves, and Eagle-Barrett syndrome (prune belly syndrome), under these listings.

# B. What evidence do we need?
1. We need evidence that documents the signs, symptoms, and laboratory findings of your CKD. This evidence should include reports of clinical examinations, treatment records, and documentation of your response to treatment. Laboratory findings, such as serum creatinine or serum albumin levels, may document your kidney function. We generally need evidence covering a period of at least 90 days unless we can make a fully favorable determination or decision without it.
2.
Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR).
The eGFR is an estimate of the filtering capacity of the kidneys that takes into account serum creatinine concentration and other variables, such as your age, gender, and body size. If your medical evidence includes eGFR findings, we will consider them when we evaluate your CKD under 106.05.
3.
Kidney or bone biopsy.
If you have had a kidney or bone biopsy, we need a copy of the pathology report. When we cannot get a copy of the pathology report, we will accept a statement from an acceptable medical source verifying that a biopsy was performed and describing the results.

# C. What other factors do we consider when we evaluate your genitourinary disorder?
1.
Chronic hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis.
a. Dialysis is a treatment for CKD that uses artificial means to remove toxic metabolic byproducts from the blood. Hemodialysis uses an artificial kidney machine to clean waste products from the blood; peritoneal dialysis uses a dialyzing solution that is introduced into and removed from the abdomen (peritoneal cavity) either continuously or intermittently. Under 106.03, your ongoing dialysis must have lasted or be expected to last for a continuous period of at least 12 months. To satisfy the requirement in 106.03, we will accept a report from an acceptable medical source that describes your CKD and your current dialysis, and indicates that your dialysis will be ongoing.
b. If you are undergoing chronic hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis, your CKD may meet our definition of disability before you started dialysis. We will determine the onset of your disability based on the facts in your case record.
2.
Kidney transplant.
a. If you receive a kidney transplant, we will consider you to be disabled under 106.04 for 1 year from the date of transplant. After that, we will evaluate your residual impairment(s) by considering your post-transplant function, any rejection episodes you have had, complications in other body systems, and any adverse effects related to ongoing treatment.
b. If you received a kidney transplant, your CKD may meet our definition of disability before you received the transplant. We will determine the onset of your disability based on the facts in your case record.
3.
Anasarca
(generalized massive edema or swelling). Under 106.06B, we need a description of the extent of edema, including pretibial (in front of the tibia), periorbital (around the eyes), or presacral (in front of the sacrum) edema. We also need a description of any ascites, pleural effusion, or pericardial effusion.
4.
Congenital genitourinary disorder.
Procedures such as diagnostic cystoscopy or circumcision do not satisfy the requirement for urologic surgical procedures in 106.07.
5.
Growth failure due to any chronic renal disease.
a. To evaluate growth failure due to any chronic renal disease, we require documentation of the laboratory findings described in 106.08A and the growth measurements in 106.08B within the same consecutive 12-month period. The dates of laboratory findings may be different from the dates of growth measurements.
b. Under 106.08B, we use the appropriate table(s) under 105.08B in the digestive system
to determine whether a child's growth is less than the third percentile.
(i) For children from birth to attainment of age 2, we use the weight-for-length table corresponding to the child's gender (Table I or Table II).
(ii) For children age 2 to attainment of age 18, we use the body mass index (BMI)-for-age table corresponding to the child's gender (Table III or Table IV).
(iii) BMI is the ratio of a child's weight to the square of his or her height. We calculate BMI using the formulas in the digestive disorders body system (105.00).
6.
Complications of CKD.
The hospitalizations in 106.09 may be for different complications of CKD. Examples of complications from CKD that may result in hospitalization include stroke, congestive heart failure, hypertensive crisis, or acute kidney failure requiring a short course of hemodialysis. If the CKD complication occurs during a hospitalization that was initially for a co-occurring condition, we will evaluate it under our rules for determining medical equivalence. (See § 416.926 of this chapter.) We will evaluate co-occurring conditions, including those that result in hospitalizations, under the listings for the affected body system or under our rules for medical equivalence.

# D. How do we evaluate disorders that do not meet one of the genitourinary listings?
1. The listed disorders are only examples of common genitourinary disorders that we consider severe enough to result in marked and severe functional limitations. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. (See § 416.926 of this chapter.) Genitourinary disorders may be associated with disorders in other body systems, and we consider the combined effects of multiple impairments when we determine whether they medically equal a listing. If your impairment(s) does not medically equal a listing, we will also consider whether it functionally equals the listings. (See § 416.926a of this chapter.) We use the rules in § 416.994a of this chapter when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 106.01 Category of Impairments, Genitourinary Disorders
106.03
Chronic kidney disease,
with chronic hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis (see 106.00C1).
106.04
Chronic kidney disease,
with kidney transplant. Consider under a disability for 1 year following the transplant; thereafter, evaluate the residual impairment (see 106.00C2).
106.05
Chronic kidney disease,
with impairment of kidney function, with one of the following documented on at least two occasions at least 90 days apart during a consecutive 12-month period:
A. Serum creatinine of 3 mg/dL or greater;
OR
B. Creatinine clearance of 30 ml/min/1.73m
2
or less;
OR
C. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 30 ml/min/1.73m
2
or less.
106.06
Nephrotic syndrome,
with A and B:
A. Laboratory findings as described in 1 or 2, documented on at least two occasions at least 90 days apart during a consecutive 12-month period:
1. Serum albumin of 3.0 g/dL or less, or
2. Proteinuria of 40 mg/m
2
/hr or greater;
AND
B. Anasarca (see 106.00C3) persisting for at least 90 days despite prescribed treatment.
106.07
Congenital genitourinary disorder
(see 106.00C4) requiring urologic surgical procedures at least three times in a consecutive 12-month period, with at least 30 days between procedures. Consider under a disability for 1 year following the date of the last surgery; thereafter, evaluate the residual impairment.
106.09
Complications of chronic kidney disease
(see 106.00C5) requiring at least three hospitalizations within a consecutive 12-month period and occurring at least 30 days apart. Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, including hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization.
106.08
Growth failure due to any chronic renal disease
(see 106.00C5), with:
A. Serum creatinine of 2 mg/dL or greater, documented at least two times within a consecutive 12-month period with at least 60 days between measurements.
AND
B. Growth failure as required in 1 or 2:
1.
For children from birth to attainment of age 2,
three weight-for-length measurements that are:
a. Within a consecutive 12-month period; and
b. At least 60 days apart; and
c. Less than the third percentile on the appropriate weight-for-length table under 105.08B1; or
2.
For children age 2 to attainment of age 18,
three BMI-for-age measurements that are:
a. Within a consecutive 12-month period; and
b. At least 60 days apart; and
c. Less than the third percentile on the appropriate BMI-for-age table under 105.08B2.

# 107.00 Hematological Disorders

# A. What hematological disorders do we evaluate under these listings?
1. We evaluate non-malignant (non-cancerous) hematological disorders, such as hemolytic anemias (107.05), disorders of thrombosis and hemostasis (107.08), and disorders of bone marrow failure (107.10). These disorders disrupt the normal development and function of white blood cells, red blood cells, platelets, and clotting-factor proteins (factors).
2. We evaluate malignant (cancerous) hematological disorders, such as lymphoma, leukemia, and multiple myeloma, under the appropriate listings in 113.00, except for two lymphomas associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. We evaluate primary central nervous system lymphoma associated with HIV infection under 114.11B, and primary effusion lymphoma associated with HIV infection under 114.11C.

# B. What evidence do we need to document that you have a hematological disorder?
We need the following evidence to document that you have a hematological disorder:
1. A laboratory report of a definitive test that establishes a hematological disorder, signed by a physician; or
2. A laboratory report of a definitive test that establishes a hematological disorder that is not signed by a physician and a report from a physician that states you have the disorder; or
3. When we do not have a laboratory report of a definitive test, a persuasive report from a physician that a diagnosis of your hematological disorder was confirmed by appropriate laboratory analysis or other diagnostic method(s). To be persuasive, this report must state that you had the appropriate definitive laboratory test or tests for diagnosing your disorder and provide the results, or explain how your diagnosis was established by other diagnostic method(s) consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice.
4. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain the results of appropriate laboratory testing you have had. We will not purchase complex, costly, or invasive tests, such as tests of clotting-factor proteins, and bone marrow aspirations.

# C. What are hemolytic anemias, and how do we evaluate them under 107.05?
1.
Hemolytic anemias, both congenital and acquired,
are disorders that result in premature destruction of red blood cells (RBCs). Hemolytic anemias include abnormalities of hemoglobin structure (hemoglobinopathies), abnormal RBC enzyme content and function, and RBC membrane (envelope) defects that are congenital or acquired. The diagnosis of hemolytic anemia is based on hemoglobin electrophoresis or analysis of the contents of the RBC (enzymes) and membrane. Examples of congenital hemolytic anemias include sickle cell disease, thalassemia, and their variants, and hereditary spherocytosis. Acquired hemolytic anemias may result from autoimmune disease (for example, systemic lupus erythematosus) or mechanical devices (for example, heart valves, intravascular patches).
2. The hospitalizations in 107.05B do not all have to be for the same complication of the hemolytic anemia. They may be for three different complications of the disorder. Examples of complications of hemolytic anemia that may result in hospitalization include dactylitis, osteomyelitis, painful (vaso-occlusive) crisis, pulmonary infections or infarctions, acute chest syndrome, pulmonary hypertension, chronic heart failure, gallbladder disease, hepatic (liver) failure, renal (kidney) failure, nephrotic syndrome, aplastic crisis, and strokes. We will count the hours you receive emergency treatment in a comprehensive sickle cell disease center immediately before the hospitalization if this treatment is comparable to the treatment provided in a hospital emergency department.
3. For 107.05C, we do not require hemoglobin to be measured during a period in which you are free of pain or other symptoms of your disorder. We will accept hemoglobin measurements made while you are experiencing complications of your hemolytic anemia.
4. 107.05D refers to the most serious type of beta thalassemia major in which the bone marrow cannot produce sufficient numbers of normal RBCs to maintain life. The only available treatments for beta thalassemia major are life-long RBC transfusions (sometimes called hypertransfusion) or bone marrow transplantation. For purposes of 107.05D, we do not consider prophylactic RBC transfusions to prevent strokes or other complications in sickle cell disease and its variants to be of equal significance to life-saving RBC transfusions for beta thalassemia major. However, we will consider the functional limitations associated with prophylactic RBC transfusions and any associated side effects (for example, iron overload) under functional equivalence and any affected body system(s). We will also evaluate strokes and resulting complications under 111.00 and 112.00.

# D. What are disorders of thrombosis and hemostasis, and how do we evaluate them under 107.08?
1.
Disorders of thrombosis and hemostasis
include both clotting and bleeding disorders, and may be congenital or acquired. These disorders are characterized by abnormalities
in blood clotting that result in hypercoagulation (excessive blood clotting) or hypocoagulation (inadequate blood clotting). The diagnosis of a thrombosis or hemostasis disorder is based on evaluation of plasma clotting-factor proteins (factors) and platelets. Protein C or protein S deficiency and Factor V Leiden are examples of hypercoagulation disorders. Hemophilia, von Willebrand disease, and thrombocytopenia are examples of hypocoagulation disorders. Acquired excessive blood clotting may result from blood protein defects and acquired inadequate blood clotting (for example, acquired hemophilia A) may be associated with inhibitor autoantibodies.
2. The hospitalizations in 107.08 do not all have to be for the same complication of a disorder of thrombosis and hemostasis. They may be for three different complications of the disorder. Examples of complications that may result in hospitalization include anemias, thromboses, embolisms, and uncontrolled bleeding requiring multiple factor concentrate infusions or platelet transfusions. We will also consider any surgery that you have, even if it is not related to your hematological disorder, to be a complication of your disorder of thrombosis and hemostasis if you require treatment with clotting-factor proteins (for example, factor VIII or IX) or anticoagulant medication to control bleeding or coagulation in connection with your surgery. We will count the hours you receive emergency treatment in a comprehensive hemophilia treatment center immediately before the hospitalization if this treatment is comparable to the treatment provided in a hospital emergency department.

# E. What are disorders of bone marrow failure, and how do we evaluate them under 107.10?
1.
Disorders of bone marrow failure
may be congenital or acquired, characterized by bone marrow that does not make enough healthy RBCs, platelets, or granulocytes (specialized types of white blood cells); there may also be a combined failure of these bone marrow-producing cells. The diagnosis is based on peripheral blood smears and bone marrow aspiration or bone marrow biopsy, but not peripheral blood smears alone. Examples of these disorders are myelodysplastic syndromes, aplastic anemia, granulocytopenia, and myelofibrosis. Acquired disorders of bone marrow failure may result from viral infections, chemical exposure, or immunologic disorders.
2. The hospitalizations in 107.10A do not all have to be for the same complication of bone marrow failure. They may be for three different complications of the disorder. Examples of complications that may result in hospitalization include uncontrolled bleeding, anemia, and systemic bacterial, viral, or fungal infections.
3. For 107.10B, the requirement of life-long RBC transfusions to maintain life in myelodysplastic syndromes or aplastic anemias has the same meaning as it does for beta thalassemia major. (See 107.00C4.)

# F. How do we evaluate bone marrow or stem cell transplantation under 107.17?
We will consider you to be disabled for 12 months from the date of bone marrow or stem cell transplantation, or we may consider you to be disabled for a longer period if you are experiencing any serious post-transplantation complications, such as graft-versus-host (GVH) disease, frequent infections after immunosuppressive therapy, or significant deterioration of organ systems. We do not restrict our determination of the onset of disability to the date of the transplantation in 107.17. We may establish an earlier onset of disability due to your transplantation if evidence in your case record supports such a finding.

# G. How do we consider your symptoms, including your pain, severe fatigue, and malaise?
Your symptoms, including pain, severe fatigue, and malaise, may be important factors in our determination whether your hematological disorder meets or medically equals a listing, or in our determination whether you otherwise have marked and severe functional limitations. We cannot consider your symptoms unless you have medical signs or laboratory findings showing the existence of a medically determinable impairment(s) that could reasonably be expected to produce the symptoms. If you have such an impairment(s), we will evaluate the intensity, persistence, and functional effects of your symptoms using the rules throughout 107.00 and in our other regulations. (See sections 416.921 and 416.929 of this chapter.) Additionally, when we assess the credibility of your complaints about your symptoms and their functional effects, we will not draw any inferences from the fact that you do not receive treatment or that you are not following treatment without considering all of the relevant evidence in your case record, including any explanations you provide on why you are not receiving or following treatment.

# H. How do we evaluate episodic events in hematological disorders?
Some of the listings in this body system require a specific number of events within a consecutive 12-month period. (See 107.05, 107.08, and 107.10A.) When we use such criteria, a consecutive 12-month period means a period of 12 consecutive months, all or part of which must occur within the period we are
considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review. These events must occur at least 30 days apart to ensure that we are evaluating separate events.

# I. How do we evaluate hematological disorders that do not meet one of these listings?
1. These listings are only common examples of hematological disorders that we consider severe enough to result in marked and severe functional limitations. If your disorder does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must consider whether you have a disorder that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system. For example, we will evaluate hemophilic joint deformity under 101.00; polycythemia vera under 103.00, 104.00, or 111.00; chronic iron overload resulting from repeated RBC transfusion (transfusion hemosiderosis) under 103.00, 104.00, or 105.00; and the effects of intracranial bleeding or stroke under 111.00 or 112.00.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. (See section 416.926 of this chapter.) Hematological disorders may be associated with disorders in other body systems, and we consider the combined effects of multiple impairments when we determine whether they medically equal a listing. If your impairment(s) does not medically equal a listing, we will also consider whether it functionally equals the listings. (See section 416.926a of this chapter.) We use the rules in § 416.994a of this chapter when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.
107.01 Category of Impairments, Hematological Disorders
107.05
Hemolytic anemias,
including sickle cell disease, thalassemia, and their variants (see 107.00C), with:
A. Documented painful (vaso-occlusive) crises requiring parenteral (intravenous or intramuscular) narcotic medication, occurring at least six times within a 12-month period with at least 30 days between crises.
OR
B. Complications of hemolytic anemia requiring at least three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and occurring at least 30 days apart. Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, which can include hours in a hospital emergency department or comprehensive sickle cell disease center immediately before the hospitalization (see 107.00C2).
OR
C. Hemoglobin measurements of 7.0 grams per deciliter (g/dL) or less, occurring at least three times within a 12-month period with at least 30 days between measurements.
OR
D. Beta thalassemia major requiring life-long RBC transfusions at least once every 6 weeks to maintain life (see 107.00C4).
107.08
Disorders of thrombosis and hemostasis,
including hemophilia and thrombocytopenia (see 107.00D), with complications requiring at least three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and occurring at least 30 days apart. Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, which can include hours in a hospital emergency department or comprehensive hemophilia treatment center immediately before the hospitalization (see 107.00D2).
107.10
Disorders of bone marrow failure,
including myelodysplastic syndromes, aplastic anemia, granulocytopenia, and myelofibrosis (see 107.00E), with:
A. Complications of bone marrow failure requiring at least three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and occurring at least 30 days apart. Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, which can include hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization (see 107.00E2).
OR
B. Myelodysplastic syndromes or aplastic anemias requiring life-long RBC transfusions at least once every 6 weeks to maintain life (see 107.00E3).
107.17
Hematological disorders treated by bone marrow or stem cell transplantation
(see 107.00F). Consider under a disability for at least 12 consecutive months from the date of transplantation. After that, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.

# 108.00 Skin Disorders
A.
Which skin disorders do we evaluate under these listings?
We use these listings to evaluate skin disorders that result from hereditary, congenital, or acquired pathological processes. We evaluate genetic photosensitivity disorders (108.07), burns (108.08), and chronic conditions of the skin or mucous membranes such as ichthyosis, bullous disease, dermatitis, psoriasis, and hidradenitis suppurativa (108.09) under these listings.
B.
What are our definitions for the following terms used in this body system?
1.
Assistive device(s):
An assistive device, for the purposes of these listings, is any device used to improve stability, dexterity, or mobility. An assistive device can be hand-held, such as a cane(s), a crutch(es), or a walker; used in a seated position, such as a wheelchair, rollator, or power operated vehicle; or worn, such as a prosthesis or an orthosis.
2.
Chronic skin lesions:
Chronic skin lesions can have recurrent exacerbations (see 108.00B7). They can occur despite prescribed medical treatment. These chronic skin lesions can develop on any part of your body,
including upper extremities, lower extremities, palms of your hands, soles of your feet, the perineum, inguinal (groin) region, and axillae (underarms). Chronic skin lesions may result in functional limitations as described in 108.00D2.
3.
Contractures:
Contractures are permanent fibrous scar tissue resulting in tightening and thickening of skin that prevents normal movement of the damaged area. They can develop on any part of your musculoskeletal system, including upper extremities, lower extremities, palms of your hands, soles of your feet, the perineum, inguinal (groin) region, and axillae (underarms). Contractures may result in functional limitations as described in 108.00D2.
4.
Documented medical need:
When we use the term “documented medical need,” we mean that there is evidence (see § 416.913 of this chapter) from your medical source(s) in the medical record that supports your need for an assistive device (see 108.00B1) for a continuous period of at least 12 months. The evidence must include documentation from your medical source(s) describing any limitation(s) in your upper or lower extremity functioning that supports your need for the assistive device and describing the circumstances for which you need it. The evidence does not have to include a specific prescription for the device.
5.
Fine and gross movements:
Fine movements, for the purposes of these listings, involve use of your wrists, hands, and fingers; such movements include picking, pinching, manipulating, and fingering. Gross movements involve use of your shoulders, upper arms, forearms, and hands; such movements include handling, gripping, grasping, holding, turning, and reaching. Gross movements also include exertional activities such as lifting, carrying, pushing, and pulling. Evaluation of fine and gross movements is dependent on your age.
6.
Surgical management:
For the purposes of these listings, surgical management includes the surgery(ies) itself, as well as various post-surgical procedures, surgical complications, infections or other medical complications, related illnesses, or related treatments that delay a person's attainment of maximum benefit from surgery.
7.
Exacerbation:
For the purposes of these listings, exacerbation means an increase in the signs or symptoms of the skin disorder. Exacerbation may also be referred to as flare, flare-up, or worsening of the skin disorder.
C.
What evidence do we need to evaluate your skin disorder?
1. To establish the presence of a skin disorder as a medically determinable impairment, we need objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source (AMS) who has examined you for the disorder.
2. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain your medical history, treatment records, and relevant laboratory findings, but we will not purchase genetic testing.
3. When we evaluate the presence and severity of your skin disorder(s), we generally need information regarding:
a. The onset, duration, and frequency of exacerbations (see 108.00B7);
b. The prognosis of your skin disorder;
c. The location, size, and appearance of lesions and contractures;
d. Any available history of familial incidence;
e. Your exposure to toxins, allergens or irritants; seasonal variations; and stress factors;
f. Your ability to function outside of a highly protective environment (see 108.00E4);
g. Laboratory findings (for example, a biopsy obtained independently of Social Security disability evaluation or results of blood tests);
h. Evidence from other medically acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice; and
i. Statements you or others make about your disorder(s), your restrictions, and your daily activities.
D.
How do we evaluate the severity of skin disorders?
1.
General.
We evaluate the severity of skin disorders based on the site(s) of your chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3), functional limitations caused by your signs and symptoms (including pain) (see 108.00D2), and how your prescribed treatment affects you. We consider the frequency and severity of your exacerbations (see 108.00B7), how quickly they resolve, and how you function between exacerbations (see 108.00B7), to determine whether your skin disorder meets or medically equals a listing (see 108.00D3). If there is no record of ongoing medical treatment for your disorder, we will follow the guidelines in 108.00D6. We will determine the extent and kinds of evidence we need from medical and non-medical sources based on the individual facts about your disorder. For our basic rules on evidence, see §§ 416.912, 416.913, and 416.920b of this chapter. For our rules on evaluating your symptoms, see § 416.929 of this chapter.
2.
Limitation(s) of physical functioning due to skin disorders.
a. Skin disorders may be due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3), and may cause pain or restrict movement, which can limit your ability to initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities. For example, skin lesions in the axilla may limit your ability to raise or reach with the affected arm, or lesions in the inguinal region may limit your ability to ambulate, sit, or lift and carry. To evaluate your skin disorder(s) under 108.07B, 108.08,
and 108.09, we require medically documented evidence of physical limitation(s) of functioning related to your disorder. The decrease in physical function must have lasted, or can be expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months (see § 416.909 of this chapter). Xeroderma pigmentosum is the only skin disorder that does not include functional criteria because the characteristics and severity of the disorder itself are sufficient to meet the criteria in 108.07A.
b. The functional criteria require impairment-related physical limitations in using upper or lower extremities that have lasted, or can be expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months, medically documented by one of the following:
(i) Inability to use both upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 108.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3); or
(ii) Inability to use one upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 108.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3), and a documented medical need (see 108.00B4) for an assistive device (see 108.00B1) that requires the use of the other upper extremity; or
(iii) Inability to stand up from a seated position and maintain an upright position to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) affecting at least two extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region); or
(iv) Inability to maintain an upright position while standing or walking to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) affecting both lower extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region).
3.
Frequency of exacerbations due to chronic skin lesions.
A skin disorder resulting in chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) may have frequent exacerbations (see 108.00B7) severe enough to meet a listing even if each individual skin lesion exacerbation (see 108.00B7) did not last for an extended amount of time. We will consider the frequency, severity, and duration of skin lesion exacerbations (see 108.00B7), how quickly they resolve, and how you function in the time between skin lesion exacerbations (see 108.00B7), to determine whether your skin disorder meets or medically equals a listing.
4.
Symptoms (including pain).
Your symptoms may be an important factor in our determination of whether your skin disorder(s) meets or medically equals a listing. We consider your symptoms only when you have a medically determinable impairment(s) that could reasonably be expected to produce the symptoms. See § 416.929 of this chapter.
5.
Treatment.
a.
General.
Treatments for skin disorders may have beneficial or adverse effects, and responses to treatment vary from person to person. Your skin disorder's response to treatment may vary due to treatment resistance or side effects that can result in functional limitations. We will evaluate all of the effects of treatment (including surgical treatment, medications, and therapy) on the symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings of your skin disorder, and on your ability to function.
b.
Despite adherence to prescribed medical treatment for 3 months.
Under 108.09, we require that your symptoms persist “despite adherence to prescribed medical treatment for 3 months.” This requirement means that you must have taken prescribed medication(s) or followed other medical treatment prescribed by a medical source for 3 consecutive months. Treatment or effects of treatment may be temporary. In most cases, sufficient time must elapse to allow us to evaluate your response to treatment, including any side effects. For our purposes, “sufficient time” means a period of at least 3 months. If your treatment has not lasted for at least 3 months, we will follow the rules in 108.00D6a. The 3 months adherence to prescribed medical treatment must be within the period of at least 12 months that we use to evaluate severity.
c.
Treatment with PUVA (psoralen and ultraviolet A (UVA) light) or biologics.
If you receive additional treatment with PUVA or biologics to treat your skin disorder(s), we will defer adjudication of your claim for 6 months from the start of treatment with PUVA or biologics to evaluate the effectiveness of these treatments unless we can make a fully favorable determination or decision on another basis.
6.
No record of ongoing treatment.
a. Despite having a skin disorder, you may not have received ongoing treatment, may have just begun treatment, may not have access to prescribed medical treatment, or may not have an ongoing relationship with the medical community. In any of these situations, you will not have a longitudinal medical record for us to review when we evaluate your disorder. In some instances, we may be able to assess the severity and duration of your skin disorder based on your medical record and current evidence alone. We may ask you to attend a consultative examination to determine the severity and potential duration of your skin disorder (see § 416.919a of this chapter).
b. If, for any reason, you have not received treatment, your skin disorder cannot meet the criteria for 108.09. If the information in your case record is not sufficient to show that you have a skin disorder that meets the criteria of one of the skin disorders listings, we will follow the rules in 108.00I.
E.
How do we evaluate genetic photosensitivity disorders under 108.07?
Genetic photosensitivity disorders are disorders of the skin caused by an increase in the sensitivity of the skin to sources of ultraviolet light, including sunlight.
1.
Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) (108.07A).
XP is a genetic photosensitivity disorder with lifelong hypersensitivity to all forms of ultraviolet light. Laboratory testing confirms the diagnosis by documenting abnormalities in the body's ability to repair DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) mutations after ultraviolet light exposure. Your skin disorder meets the requirements of 108.07A if you have clinical and laboratory findings supporting a diagnosis of XP (see 108.00E3).
2.
Other genetic photosensitivity disorders (108.07B).
The effects of other genetic photosensitivity disorders may vary and may not persist over time. To meet the requirements of 108.07B, a genetic photosensitivity disorder other than XP must be established by clinical and laboratory findings (see 108.00C) and must result either in chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) that result in functional limitations (108.00D2), or must result in the inability to function outside of a highly protective environment (see 108.00E4). Some genetic photosensitivity disorders can have very serious effects on other body systems, especially special senses and speech, neurological, mental, and cancer. We will evaluate your disorder(s) under the listings in 102.00, 111.00, 112.00, or 113.00, as appropriate.
3.
What evidence do we need to document that you have XP or another genetic photosensitivity disorder?
We will make a reasonable effort to obtain evidence of your disorder(s), but we will not purchase genetic testing. When the results of genetic tests are part of the existing evidence in your case record, we will evaluate the test results with all other relevant evidence. We need the following clinical and laboratory findings to document that you have XP or another genetic photosensitivity disorder:
a. A laboratory report of a definitive genetic test documenting appropriate chromosomal changes, including abnormal DNA repair or another DNA abnormality specific to your type of photosensitivity disorder, signed by an AMS; or
b. A laboratory report of a definitive test that is not signed by an AMS, and a report from an AMS stating that you have undergone definitive genetic laboratory studies documenting appropriate chromosomal changes, including abnormal DNA repair or another DNA abnormality specific to your type of photosensitivity disorder; or
c. If we do not have a laboratory report of a definitive test, we need documentation from an AMS that an appropriate laboratory analysis or other diagnostic method(s) confirms a positive diagnosis of your skin disorder. This documentation must state that you had the appropriate definitive laboratory test(s) for diagnosing your disorder and provide the results, or explain how another diagnostic method(s), consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice, established your diagnosis.
4.
Inability to function outside of a highly protective environment
means that you must avoid exposure to ultraviolet light (including sunlight passing through windows and light from similar unshielded light sources), wear protective clothing and eyeglasses, and use opaque broad-spectrum sunscreens in order to avoid skin cancer or other serious effects.
F.
How do we evaluate burns under 108.08?
1. Electrical, chemical, or thermal burns frequently affect other body systems; for example, musculoskeletal, special senses and speech, respiratory, cardiovascular, genitourinary, neurological, or mental. We evaluate burns in the same way we evaluate other disorders that can affect the skin and other body systems, using the listing for the predominant feature of your disorder. For example, if your soft tissue injuries resulting from burns are under surgical management (as defined in 108.00B6), we will evaluate your disorder under the listings in 101.00.
2. We evaluate burns resulting in chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) that have been documented by an AMS to have reached maximum therapeutic benefit and therefore are no longer receiving surgical management, under 108.08. To be disabling, these burns must result in functional limitation(s) (see 108.00D2) that has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
G.
How do we evaluate chronic conditions of the skin or mucous membranes under 108.09?
We evaluate skin disorders that result in chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) under 108.09. These disorders must result in chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) that continue to persist despite adherence to prescribed medical treatment for 3 months (see 108.00D5b) and cause functional limitations (see 108.00D2). Examples of skin disorders evaluated under this listing are ichthyosis, bullous diseases (such as pemphigus, epidermolysis bullosa, and dermatitis herpetiformis), chronic skin infections, dermatitis, psoriasis, and hidradenitis suppurativa.
H.
How do we evaluate disorders in other body systems that affect the skin?
When your disorder(s) in another body system affects your skin, we first evaluate the predominant
feature of your disorder(s) under the appropriate body system. Examples of disorders in other body systems that affect the skin include the following:
1.
Tuberous sclerosis.
The predominant functionally limiting features of tuberous sclerosis are seizures and intellectual disorder or other mental disorders. We evaluate these features under the listings in 111.00 or 112.00, as appropriate.
2.
Malignant tumors of the skin.
Malignant tumors of the skin (for example, malignant melanomas) are cancers, or malignant neoplastic diseases, that we evaluate under the listings in 113.00.
3.
Immune system disorders.
We evaluate skin manifestations of immune system disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, psoriasis, and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection under the listings in 114.00.
4.
Head or facial disfigurement or deformity, and other physical deformities caused by skin disorders.
A head or facial disfigurement or deformity may result in loss of your sight, hearing, speech, or ability to chew. In addition to head and facial disfigurement and deformity, other physical deformities may result in associated psychological problems (for example, depression). We evaluate the effects of head or facial disfigurement or deformity, or other physical deformities caused by skin disorders under the listings in 101.00, 102.00, 105.00, or 112.00, as appropriate.
5.
Porphyria.
We evaluate erythropoietic protoporphyria under the listings in 107.00.
6.
Hemangiomas.
We evaluate hemangiomas associated with thrombocytopenia and hemorrhage (for example, Kasabach-Merritt syndrome) involving coagulation defects under the listings in 107.00. When hemangiomas impinge on vital structures or interfere with functioning, we evaluate their primary effects under the listings in the appropriate body system.
I.
How do we evaluate skin disorders that do not meet one of these listings?
1. These listings are only examples of common skin disorders that we consider severe enough to result in marked and severe limitations. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. See § 416.926 of this chapter. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, we will also consider whether your impairment(s) functionally equals the listings. See § 416.926a of this chapter. We use the rules in § 416.994a of this chapter when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.
108.01 Category of Impairments, Skin Disorders
108.02-108.06 [Reserved]
108.07
Genetic photosensitivity disorders,
established as described in 108.00E. The requirements of this listing are met if either paragraph A or paragraph B is satisfied.
A. Xeroderma pigmentosum (see 108.00E1).

# OR
B. Other genetic photosensitivity disorders (see 108.00E2) with either 1 or 2:
1. Chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) that cause an inability to function outside of a highly protective environment (see 108.00E4); or
2. Chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) causing chronic pain or other physical limitation(s) that result in impairment-related functional limitations (see 108.00D2), as evidenced by:
a. Inability to use both upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 108.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3); or
b. Inability to use one upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 108.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3), and a documented medical need (see 108.00B4) for an assistive device (see 108.00B1) that requires the use of the other upper extremity; or
c. Inability to stand up from a seated position and maintain an upright position to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) affecting at least two extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region); or
d. Inability to maintain an upright position while standing or walking to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) affecting both lower extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region).
108.08
Burns
(see 108.00F). Burns that do not require continuing surgical management (see 108.00B6), or that have been documented by an acceptable medical source to have reached maximum therapeutic benefit and are no longer receiving surgical management, resulting in chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) causing chronic pain or other physical limitation(s) that result in impairment-related functional limitations (see 108.00D2), as evidenced by:
A. Inability to use both upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 108.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3).

# OR
B. Inability to use one upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 108.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3), and a documented medical need (see 108.00B4) for an assistive device (see 108.00B1) that requires the use of the other upper extremity.

# OR
C. Inability to stand up from a seated position and maintain an upright position to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) affecting at least two extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region).

# OR
D. Inability to maintain an upright position while standing or walking to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) affecting both lower extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region).
108.09
Chronic conditions of the skin or mucous membranes
(see 108.00G) resulting in:
A. Chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) causing chronic pain or other physical limitation(s) that persist despite adherence to prescribed medical treatment for 3 months (see 108.00D5b).

# AND
B. Impairment-related functional limitations (see 108.00D2) demonstrated by 1, 2, 3, or 4:
1. Inability to use both upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 108.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3); or
2. Inability to use one upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 108.00B5) due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3), and a documented medical need (see 108.00B4) for an assistive device (see 108.00B1) that requires the use of the other upper extremity; or
3. Inability to stand up from a seated position and maintain an upright position to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) affecting at least two extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region); or
4. Inability to maintain an upright position while standing or walking to the extent needed to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities due to chronic skin lesions (see 108.00B2) or contractures (see 108.00B3) affecting both lower extremities (including when the limitations are due to involvement of the perineum or the inguinal region).

# 109.00 Endocrine Disorders
A.
What is an endocrine disorder?
An endocrine disorder is a medical condition that causes a hormonal imbalance. When an endocrine gland functions abnormally, producing either too much of a specific hormone (hyperfunction) or too little (hypofunction), the hormonal imbalance can cause various complications in the body. The major glands of the endocrine system are the pituitary, thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, and pancreas.
B.
How do we evaluate the effects of endocrine disorders?
The only listing in this body system addresses children from birth to the attainment of age 6 who have diabetes mellitus (DM) and require daily insulin. We evaluate other impairments that result from endocrine disorders under the listings for other body systems. For example:
1.
Pituitary gland disorders
can disrupt hormone production and normal functioning in other endocrine glands and in many body systems. The effects of pituitary gland disorders vary depending on which hormones are involved. For example, when pituitary growth hormone deficiency in growing children limits bone maturation and results in pathological short stature, we evaluate this linear growth impairment under 100.00. When pituitary hypofunction affects water and electrolyte balance in the kidney and leads to diabetes insipidus, we evaluate the effects of recurrent dehydration under 106.00.
2.
Thyroid gland disorders
affect the sympathetic nervous system and normal metabolism. We evaluate thyroid-related changes in linear growth under 100.00; thyroid-related changes in blood pressure and heart rate that cause cardiac arrhythmias or other cardiac dysfunction under 104.00; thyroid-related weight loss under 105.00; and cognitive limitations, mood disorders, and anxiety under 112.00.
3.
Parathyroid gland disorders
affect calcium levels in bone, blood, nerves, muscle, and
other body tissues. We evaluate parathyroid-related osteoporosis and fractures under 101.00; abnormally elevated calcium levels in the blood (hypercalcemia) that lead to cataracts under 102.00; kidney failure under 106.00; and recurrent abnormally low blood calcium levels (hypocalcemia) that lead to increased excitability of nerves and muscles, such as tetany and muscle spasms, under 111.00.
4.
Adrenal gland disorders
affect bone calcium levels, blood pressure, metabolism, and mental status. We evaluate adrenal-related linear growth impairments under 100.00; adrenal-related osteoporosis with fractures that compromises the ability to walk or to use the upper extremities under 101.00; adrenal-related hypertension that worsens heart failure or causes recurrent arrhythmias under 104.00; adrenal-related weight loss under 105.00; and mood disorders under 112.00.
5.
Diabetes mellitus and other pancreatic gland disorders
disrupt the production of several hormones, including insulin, that regulate metabolism and digestion. Insulin is essential to the absorption of glucose from the bloodstream into body cells for conversion into cellular energy. The most common pancreatic gland disorder is
diabetes mellitus
(DM). There are two major types of DM: type 1 and type 2. Both type 1 and type 2 DM are chronic disorders that can have serious, disabling complications that meet the duration requirement. Type 1 DM—previously known as “juvenile diabetes” or “insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus” (IDDM)—is an absolute deficiency of insulin secretion that commonly begins in childhood and continues throughout adulthood. Treatment of type 1 DM always requires lifelong daily insulin. With type 2 DM—previously known as “adult-onset diabetes mellitus” or “non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus” (NIDDM)—the body's cells resist the effects of insulin, impairing glucose absorption and metabolism. Type 2 is less common than type 1 DM in children, but physicians are increasingly diagnosing type 2 DM before age 18. Treatment of type 2 DM generally requires lifestyle changes, such as increased exercise and dietary modification, and sometimes insulin in addition to other medications. While both type 1 and type 2 DM are usually controlled, some children do not achieve good control for a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, hypoglycemia unawareness, other disorders that can affect blood glucose levels, inability to manage DM due to a mental disorder, or inadequate treatment.
a.
Hyperglycemia.
Both types of DM cause hyperglycemia, which is an abnormally high level of blood glucose that may produce acute and long-term complications. Acute complications of hyperglycemia include diabetic ketoacidosis. Long-term complications of chronic hyperglycemia include many conditions affecting various body systems but are rare in children.
b.
Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA).
DKA is an acute, potentially life-threatening complication of DM in which the chemical balance of the body becomes dangerously hyperglycemic and acidic. It results from a severe insulin deficiency, which can occur due to missed or inadequate daily insulin therapy or in association with an acute illness. It usually requires hospital treatment to correct the acute complications of dehydration, electrolyte imbalance, and insulin deficiency. You may have serious complications resulting from your treatment, which we evaluate under the affected body system. For example, we evaluate cardiac arrhythmias under 104.00, intestinal necrosis under 105.00, and cerebral edema and seizures under 111.00. Recurrent episodes of DKA in adolescents may result from mood or eating disorders, which we evaluate under 112.00.
c.
Hypoglycemia.
Children with DM may experience episodes of hypoglycemia, which is an abnormally low level of blood glucose. Most children age 6 and older recognize the symptoms of hypoglycemia and reverse them by consuming substances containing glucose; however, some do not take this step because of hypoglycemia unawareness. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to complications, including seizures or loss of consciousness, which we evaluate under 111.00, or altered mental status, cognitive deficits, and permanent brain damage, which we evaluate under 112.00.
C.
How do we evaluate DM in children?
Listing 109.08 is only for children with DM who have not attained age 6 and who require daily insulin. For all other children (that is, children with DM who are age 6 or older and require daily insulin, and children of any age with DM who do not require daily insulin), we follow our rules for determining whether the DM is severe, alone or in combination with another impairment, whether it meets or medically equals the criteria of a listing in another body system, or functionally equals the listings under the criteria in § 416.926a of this chapter, considering the factors in § 416.924a of this chapter. The management of DM in children can be complex and variable from day to day, and all children with DM require some level of adult supervision. For example, if a child age 6 or older has a medical need for 24-hour-a-day adult supervision of insulin treatment, food intake, and physical activity to ensure survival, we will find that the child's impairment functionally equals the listings based on the example in § 416.926a(m)(2) of this chapter.
D.
How do we evaluate other endocrine disorders that do not have effects that meet or medically equal the criteria of any listing in other body systems?
If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing in
another body system, we will consider whether your impairment(s) functionally equals the listings under the criteria in § 416.926a, considering the factors in § 416.924a. When we decide whether you continue to be disabled, we use the rules in § 416.994a.
109.01
Category of Impairments, Endocrine
109.08
Any type of diabetes mellitus in a child who requires daily insulin and has not attained age 6.
Consider under a disability until the attainment of age 6. Thereafter, evaluate the diabetes mellitus according to the rules in 109.00B5 and C.

# 110.00 Congenital Disorders That Affect Multiple Body Systems
A.
Which disorders do we evaluate under this body system?
We evaluate non-mosaic Down syndrome and catastrophic congenital disorders under this body system.
B.
What is non-mosaic Down syndrome?
Non-mosaic Down syndrome is a genetic disorder. Most children with non-mosaic Down syndrome have three copies of chromosome 21 in all of their cells (chromosome 21 trisomy); some have an extra copy of chromosome 21 attached to a different chromosome in all of their cells (chromosome 21 translocation). Virtually all children with non-mosaic Down syndrome have characteristic facial or other physical features, delayed physical development, and intellectual disability. Children with non-mosaic Down syndrome may also have congenital heart disease, impaired vision, hearing problems, and other disorders. We evaluate non-mosaic Down syndrome under 110.06. If you have non-mosaic Down syndrome documented as described in 110.00C, we consider you disabled from birth.

# C.
What evidence do we need to document non-mosaic Down syndrome under 110.06?
1. Under 110.06A, we will find you disabled based on laboratory findings.
a. To find that your disorder meets 110.06A, we need a copy of the laboratory report of karyotype analysis, which is the definitive test to establish non-mosaic Down syndrome. We will not purchase karyotype analysis. We will not accept a fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) test because it does not distinguish between the mosaic and non-mosaic forms of Down syndrome.
b. If a physician (see §§ 404.1513(a)(1) and 416.913(a)(1) of this chapter) has not signed the laboratory report of karyotype analysis, the evidence must also include a physician's statement that you have Down syndrome.
c. For purposes of 110.06A, we do not require evidence stating that you have the distinctive facial or other physical features of Down syndrome.
2. If we do not have a laboratory report of karyotype analysis documenting that you have non-mosaic Down syndrome, we may find you disabled under 110.06B or 110.06C.
a. Under 110.06B, we need a physician's report stating: (i) your karyotype diagnosis or evidence that documents your type of Down syndrome that is consistent with prior karyotype analysis (for example, reference to a diagnosis of “trisomy 21”) and (ii) that you have the distinctive facial or other physical features of Down syndrome. We do not require a detailed description of the facial or other physical features of the disorder. However, we will not find that your disorder meets 110.06B if we have evidence—such as evidence of functioning inconsistent with the diagnosis—that indicates that you do not have non-mosaic Down syndrome.
b. If we do not have evidence of prior karyotype analysis (you did not have testing, or you had testing but we do not have information from a physician about the test results), we will find that your disorder meets 110.06C if we have: (i) a physician's report stating that you have the distinctive facial or other physical features of Down syndrome and (ii) evidence that your functioning is consistent with a diagnosis of non-mosaic Down syndrome. This evidence may include medical or nonmedical information about your physical and mental abilities, including information about your development, education, work history, or the results of psychological testing. However, we will not find that your disorder meets 110.06C if we have evidence—such as evidence of functioning inconsistent with the diagnosis—that indicates that you do not have non-mosaic Down syndrome.
D.
What are catastrophic congenital disorders?
Some catastrophic congenital disorders, such as anencephaly, cyclopia, chromosome 13 trisomy (Patau syndrome or trisomy D), and chromosome 18 trisomy (Edwards' syndrome or trisomy E), are usually expected to result in early death. Others such as cri du chat syndrome (chromosome 5p deletion syndrome) and the infantile onset form of Tay-Sachs disease interfere very seriously with development. We evaluate catastrophic congenital disorders under 110.08. The term “very seriously” in 110.08 has the same meaning as in the term “extreme” in § 416.926a(e)(3) of this chapter.
E.
What evidence do we need under 110.08?
We need one of the following to determine if your disorder meets 110.08A or B:
1. A laboratory report of the definitive test that documents your disorder (for example, genetic analysis or evidence of biochemical abnormalities) signed by a physician.
2. A laboratory report of the definitive test that documents your disorder that is not signed by a physician
and
a report from a physician stating that you have the disorder.
3. A report from a physician stating that you have the disorder with the typical clinical features of the disorder and that you had
definitive testing that documented your disorder. In this case, we will find that your disorder meets 110.08A or B unless we have evidence that indicates that you do not have the disorder.
4. If we do not have the definitive laboratory evidence we need under E1, E2, or E3, we will find that your disorder meets 110.08A or B if we have: (i) a report from a physician stating that you have the disorder and that you have the typical clinical features of the disorder,
and
(ii) other evidence that supports the diagnosis. This evidence may include medical or nonmedical information about your development and functioning.
5. For obvious catastrophic congenital anomalies that are expected to result in early death, such as anencephaly and cyclopia, we need evidence from a physician that demonstrates that the infant has the characteristic physical features of the disorder. In these rare cases, we do not need laboratory testing or any other evidence that confirms the disorder.
F.
How do we evaluate mosaic Down syndrome and other congenital disorders that affect multiple body systems?
1.
Mosaic Down syndrome.
Approximately 2 percent of children with Down syndrome have the mosaic form. In mosaic Down syndrome, there are some cells with an extra copy of chromosome 21 and other cells with the normal two copies of chromosome 21. Mosaic Down syndrome can be so slight as to be undetected clinically, but it can also be profound and disabling, affecting various body systems.
2.
Other congenital disorders that affect multiple body systems.
Other congenital disorders, such as congenital anomalies, chromosomal disorders, dysmorphic syndromes, inborn metabolic syndromes, and perinatal infectious diseases, can cause deviation from, or interruption of, the normal function of the body or can interfere with development. Examples of these disorders include both the juvenile and late-onset forms of Tay-Sachs disease, trisomy X syndrome (XXX syndrome), fragile X syndrome, phenylketonuria (PKU), caudal regression syndrome, and fetal alcohol syndrome. For these disorders and other disorders like them, the degree of deviation, interruption, or interference, as well as the resulting functional limitations and their progression, may vary widely from child to child and may affect different body systems.
3.
Evaluating the effects of mosaic Down syndrome or another congenital disorder under the listings.
When the effects of mosaic Down syndrome or another congenital disorder that affects multiple body systems are sufficiently severe we evaluate the disorder under the appropriate affected body system(s), such as musculoskeletal, special senses and speech, neurological, or mental disorders. Otherwise, we evaluate the specific functional limitations that result from the disorder under our other rules described in 110.00G.
G.
What if your disorder does not meet a listing?
If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will consider whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. See § 416.926 of this chapter. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, we will consider whether it functionally equals the listings. See §§ 416.924a and 416.926a of this chapter. We use the rules in § 416.994a of this chapter when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 110.01 Category of Impairments, Congenital Disorders That Affect Multiple Body Systems
110.06
Non-mosaic Down syndrome
(chromosome 21 trisomy or chromosome 21 translocation), documented by:
A. A laboratory report of karyotype analysis signed by a physician, or both a laboratory report of karyotype analysis not signed by a physician
and
a statement by a physician that the child has Down syndrome (see 110.00C1), or
B. A physician's report stating that the child has chromosome 21 trisomy or chromosome 21 translocation consistent with karyotype analysis with the distinctive facial or other physical features of Down syndrome (see 110.00C2a), or
C. A physician's report stating that the child has Down syndrome with the distinctive facial or other physical features
and
evidence demonstrating that the child is functioning at the level of a child with non-mosaic Down syndrome (see 110.00C2b).
110.08
A catastrophic congenital disorder
(see 110.00D and 110.00E) with:
A. Death usually expected within the first months of life, or
B. Very serious interference with development or functioning.

# 111.00 Neurological Disorders
A.
Which neurological disorders do we evaluate under these listings?
We evaluate epilepsy, coma or persistent vegetative state (PVS), and neurological disorders that cause disorganization of motor function, bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction, or communication impairment. Under this body system, we evaluate the limitations resulting from the impact of the neurological disease process itself. If you have a neurological disorder(s) that affects your physical and mental functioning, we will evaluate your impairments under the rules we use to determine functional equivalence. If your neurological disorder results in only mental impairment or if you have a co-occurring mental condition
that is not caused by your neurological disorder (for example, Autism spectrum disorder), we will evaluate your mental impairment under the mental disorders body system, 112.00.
B.
What evidence do we need to document your neurological disorder?
1. We need both medical and non-medical evidence (signs, symptoms, and laboratory findings) to assess the effects of your neurological disorder. Medical evidence should include your medical history, examination findings, relevant laboratory tests, and the results of imaging. Imaging refers to medical imaging techniques, such as x-ray, computerized tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and electroencephalography (EEG). The imaging must be consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice as the proper technique to support the evaluation of the disorder. In addition, the medical evidence may include descriptions of any prescribed treatment and your response to it. We consider non-medical evidence such as statements you or others make about your impairments, your restrictions, your daily activities, or, if you are an adolescent, your efforts to work.
2. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain the results of your laboratory and imaging evidence. When the results of any of these tests are part of the existing evidence in your case record, we will evaluate the test results and all other relevant evidence. We will not purchase imaging, or other diagnostic tests or laboratory tests that are complex, may involve significant risk, or that are invasive. We will not routinely purchase tests that are expensive or not readily available.
C.
How do we consider adherence to prescribed treatment in neurological disorders
? In 111.02 (Epilepsy) and 111.12 (Myasthenia gravis), we require that limitations from these neurological disorders exist despite adherence to prescribed treatment. “Despite adherence to prescribed treatment” means that you have taken medication(s) or followed other treatment procedures for your neurological disorder(s) as prescribed by a physician for three consecutive months but your impairment continues to meet the other listing requirements despite this treatment. You may receive your treatment at a health care facility that you visit regularly, even if you do not see the same physician on each visit.
D.
What do we mean by disorganization of motor function?
1.
Disorganization of motor function
means interference, due to your neurological disorder, with movement of two extremities;
i.e.,
the lower extremities, or upper extremities (including fingers, wrists, hands, arms, and shoulders). By two extremities we mean both lower extremities, or both upper extremities, or one upper extremity and one lower extremity. All listings in this body system, except for 111.02 (Epilepsy) and 111.20 (Coma and persistent vegetative state), include criteria for disorganization of motor function that results in an extreme limitation in your ability to:
a. Stand up from a seated position; or
b. Balance while standing or walking; or
c. Use the upper extremities (e.g., fingers, wrists, hands, arms, and shoulders).
2.
Extreme limitation
means the inability to stand up from a seated position, maintain balance in a standing position and while walking, or use your upper extremities to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities. The assessment of motor function depends on the degree of interference with standing up; balancing while standing or walking; or using the upper extremities (including fingers, hands, arms, and shoulders).
a. Inability to stand up from a seated position means that once seated you are unable to stand and maintain an upright position without the assistance of another person or the use of an assistive device, such as a walker, two crutches, or two canes.
b. Inability to maintain balance in a standing position means that you are unable to maintain an upright position while standing or walking without the assistance of another person or an assistive device, such as a walker, two crutches, or two canes.
c. Inability to use your upper extremities means that you have a loss of function of both upper extremities (e.g., fingers, wrists, hands, arms, and shoulders) that very seriously limits your ability to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age- appropriate activities involving fine and gross motor movements. Inability to perform fine and gross motor movements could include not being able to pinch, manipulate, and use your fingers; or not being able to use your hands, arms, and shoulders to perform gross motor movements, such as handling, gripping, grasping, holding, turning, and reaching; or not being able to engage in exertional movements such a lifting, carrying, pushing, and pulling.
3. For children who are not yet able to balance, stand up, or walk independently, we consider their function based on assessments of limitations in the ability to perform comparable age-appropriate activities with the lower and upper extremities, given normal developmental milestones. For such children, an extreme level of limitation means developmental milestones at less than one-half of the child's chronological age.
E.
What do we mean by bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction?
The bulbar region of the brain is responsible for controlling the bulbar muscles in the throat, tongue, jaw,
and face. Bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction refers to weakness in these muscles, resulting in breathing, swallowing, and speaking impairments. Listings 111.12 (Myasthenia gravis) and 111.22 (Motor neuron disorders) include criteria for evaluating bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction. If your neurological disorder has resulted in a breathing disorder, we may evaluate that condition under the respiratory system, 103.00.
F.
What is epilepsy, and how do we evaluate it under 111.02?
1.
Epilepsy
is a pattern of recurrent and unprovoked seizures that are manifestations of abnormal electrical activity in the brain. There are various types of generalized and “focal” or partial seizures. In children, the most common potentially disabling seizure types are
generalized tonic-clonic seizures, dyscognitive seizures
(formerly complex partial seizures),
and absence seizures.
However, psychogenic nonepileptic seizures and pseudoseizures are not epileptic seizures for the purpose of 111.02. We evaluate psychogenic seizures and pseudoseizures under the mental disorders body system, 112.00.
a.
Generalized tonic-clonic seizures
are characterized by loss of consciousness accompanied by a tonic phase (sudden muscle tensing causing the child to lose postural control) followed by a clonic phase (rapid cycles of muscle contraction and relaxation, also called convulsions). Tongue biting and incontinence may occur during generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and injuries may result from falling.
b.
Dyscognitive seizures
are characterized by alteration of consciousness without convulsions or loss of muscle control. During the seizure, blank staring, change of facial expression, and automatisms (such as lip smacking, chewing or swallowing, or repetitive simple actions, such as gestures or verbal utterances) may occur. During its course, a dyscognitive seizure may progress into a generalized tonic-clonic seizure (see 111.00F1a).
c.
Absence seizures (petit mal)
are also characterized by an alteration in consciousness, but are shorter than other generalized seizures (e.g., tonic-clonic and dyscognitive) seizures, generally lasting for only a few seconds rather than minutes. They may present with blank staring, change of facial expression, lack of awareness and responsiveness, and a sense of lost time after the seizure. An aura never precedes absence seizures. Although absence seizures are brief, frequent occurrence may limit functioning. This type of seizure usually does not occur after adolescence.
d.
Febrile seizures
may occur in young children in association with febrile illnesses. We will consider seizures occurring during febrile illnesses. To meet 111.02, we require documentation of seizures during nonfebrile periods and epilepsy must be established.
2.
Description of seizure.
We require at least one detailed description of your seizures from someone, preferably a medical professional, who has observed at least one of your typical seizures. If you experience more than one type of seizure, we require a description of each type.
3.
Serum drug levels.
We do not require serum drug levels; therefore, we will not purchase them. However, if serum drug levels are available in your medical records, we will evaluate them in the context of the other evidence in your case record.
4.
Counting seizures.
The period specified in 111.02A or B cannot begin earlier than one month after you began prescribed treatment. The required number of seizures must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review. When we evaluate the frequency of your seizures, we also consider your adherence to prescribed treatment (see 111.00C). When we determine the number of seizures you have had in the specified period, we will:
a. Count multiple seizures occurring in a 24-hour period as one seizure.
b. Count status epilepticus (a continuous series of seizures without return to consciousness between seizures) as one seizure.
c. Count a dyscognitive seizure that progresses into a generalized tonic-clonic seizure as one generalized tonic-clonic seizure.
d. We do not count seizures that occur during a period when you are not adhering to prescribed treatment without good reason. When we determine that you had a good reason for not adhering to prescribed treatment, we will consider your physical, mental, educational, and communicative limitations (including any language barriers). We will consider you to have good reason for not following prescribed treatment if, for example, the treatment is very risky for you due to its consequences or unusual nature, or if you are unable to afford prescribed treatment that you are willing to accept, but for which no free community resources are available. We will follow guidelines found in our policy, such as § 416.930(c) of this chapter, when we determine whether you have a good reason for not adhering to prescribed treatment.
e. We do not count psychogenic nonepileptic seizures or pseudoseizures under 111.02.We evaluate these seizures under the mental disorders body system, 112.00.
5.
Electroencephalography (EEG) testing.
We do not require EEG test results; therefore, we will not purchase them. However, if EEG test results are available in your medical records, we will evaluate them in the context of the other evidence in your case record.
G.
What is vascular insult to the brain, and how do we evaluate it under 111.04?
1.
Vascular insult to the brain
(cerebrum, cerebellum, or brainstem), commonly referred to as stroke or cerebrovascular accident (CVA), is brain cell death caused by an interruption of blood flow within or leading to the brain, or by a hemorrhage from a ruptured blood vessel or aneurysm in the brain. If you have a vision impairment resulting from your vascular insult, we may evaluate that impairment under the special senses body system, 102.00.
2. We generally need evidence from at least 3 months after the vascular insult to determine whether you have disorganization of motor function under 111.04. In some cases, evidence of your vascular insult is sufficient to allow your claim within 3 months post-vascular insult. If we are unable to allow your claim within 3 months after your vascular insult, we will defer adjudication of the claim until we obtain evidence of your neurological disorder at least 3 months post-vascular insult.
H.
What are benign brain tumors, and how do we evaluate them under 111.05?
Benign brain tumors are noncancerous (nonmalignant) abnormal growths of tissue in or on the brain that invade healthy brain tissue or apply pressure on the brain or cranial nerves. We evaluate their effects on your functioning as discussed in 111.00D. We evaluate malignant brain tumors under the cancer body system in 113.00. If you have a vision impairment resulting from your benign brain tumor, we may evaluate that impairment under the special senses body system, 102.00.
I.
What is cerebral palsy, and how do we evaluate it under 111.07?
1.
Cerebral palsy (CP)
is a term that describes a group of static, nonprogressive disorders caused by abnormalities within the brain that disrupt the brain's ability to control movement, muscle coordination, and posture. The resulting motor deficits manifest very early in a child's development, with delayed or abnormal progress in attaining developmental milestones; deficits may become more obvious as the child grows and matures over time.
2. We evaluate your signs and symptoms, such as ataxia, spasticity, flaccidity, athetosis, chorea, and difficulty with precise movements when we determine your ability to stand up, balance, walk, or perform fine and gross motor movements. We will also evaluate your signs, such as dysarthria and apraxia of speech, and receptive and expressive language problems when we determine your ability to communicate.
3. We will consider your other impairments or signs and symptoms that develop secondary to the disorder, such as post-impairment syndrome (a combination of pain, fatigue, and weakness due to muscle abnormalities); overuse syndromes (repetitive motion injuries); arthritis; abnormalities of proprioception (perception of the movements and position of the body); abnormalities of stereognosis (perception and identification of objects by touch); learning problems; anxiety; and depression.
J.
What are spinal cord disorders, and how do we evaluate them under 111.08?
1.
Spinal cord disorders
may be congenital or caused by injury to the spinal cord. Motor signs and symptoms of spinal cord disorders include paralysis, flaccidity, spasticity, and weakness.
2.
Spinal cord disorders with complete loss of function
(111.08A) addresses spinal cord disorders that result in complete lack of motor, sensory, and autonomic function of the affected part(s) of the body.
3.
Spinal cord disorders with disorganization of motor function
(111.08B) addresses spinal cord disorders that result in less than complete loss of function of the affected part(s) of the body, reducing, but not eliminating, motor, sensory, and autonomic function.
4. When we evaluate your spinal cord disorder, we generally need evidence from at least 3 months after your symptoms began in order to evaluate your disorganization of motor function. In some cases, evidence of your spinal cord disorder may be sufficient to allow your claim within 3 months after the spinal cord disorder. If the medical evidence demonstrates total cord transection causing a loss of motor and sensory functions below the level of injury, we will not wait 3 months but will make the allowance decision immediately.
K.
What are communication impairments associated with neurological disorders, and how do we evaluate them under 111.09
?
1. Communication impairments result from medically determinable neurological disorders that cause dysfunction in the parts of the brain responsible for speech and language. Under 111.09, we must have recent comprehensive evaluation including all areas of affective and effective communication, performed by a qualified professional, to document a communication impairment associated with a neurological disorder.
2. Under 111.09A, we need documentation from a qualified professional that your neurological disorder has resulted in a speech deficit that significantly affects your ability to communicate.
Significantly affects
means that you demonstrate a serious limitation in communicating, and a person who is unfamiliar with you cannot easily understand or interpret your speech.
3. Under 111.09B, we need documentation from a qualified professional that shows that your neurological disorder has resulted in a comprehension deficit that results in ineffective verbal communication for your age. For the purposes of 111.09B,
comprehension deficit
means a deficit in receptive language. Ineffective verbal communication means that you demonstrate serious limitation in your ability to communicate orally on the same
level as other children of the same age and level of development.
4. Under 111.09C, we need documentation of a neurological disorder that has resulted in hearing loss. Your hearing loss will be evaluated under listing 102.10 or 102.11.
5. We evaluate speech deficits due to non-neurological disorders under 2.09.
L.
What are neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system, such as Juvenile-onset Huntington's disease and Friedreich's ataxia, and how do we evaluate them under 111.17?
Neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system are disorders characterized by progressive and irreversible degeneration of neurons or their supporting cells. Over time, these disorders impair many of the body's motor or cognitive and other mental functions. We consider neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system under 111.17 that we do not evaluate elsewhere in section 111.00, such as juvenile-onset Huntington's disease (HD) and Friedreich's ataxia. When these disorders result in solely cognitive and other mental functional limitations, we will evaluate the disorder under the mental disorder listings, 112.00.
M.
What is traumatic brain injury, and how do we evaluate it under 111.18?
1.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI)
is damage to the brain resulting from skull fracture, collision with an external force leading to a closed head injury, or penetration by an object that enters the skull and makes contact with brain tissue. We evaluate a TBI that results in coma or persistent vegetative state (PVS) under 111.20.
2. We generally need evidence from at least 3 months after the TBI to evaluate whether you have disorganization of motor function under 111.18. In some cases, evidence of your TBI is sufficient to determine disability. If we are unable to allow your claim within 3 months post-TBI, we will defer adjudication of the claim until we obtain evidence of your neurological disorder at least 3 months post-TBI. If a finding of disability still is not possible at that time, we will again defer adjudication of the claim until we obtain evidence at least 6 months after your TBI.
N.
What are coma and persistent vegetative state, and how do we evaluate them under 111.20?
Coma is a state of unconsciousness in which a child does not exhibit a sleep/wake cycle, and is unable to perceive or respond to external stimuli. Children who do not fully emerge from coma may progress into persistent vegetative state (PVS). PVS is a condition of partial arousal in which a child may have a low level of consciousness but is still unable to react to external stimuli. In contrast to coma, a child in a PVS retains sleep/wake cycles and may exhibit some key lower brain functions, such as spontaneous movement, opening and moving eyes, and grimacing. Coma or PVS may result from a TBI, a nontraumatic insult to the brain (such as a vascular insult, infection, or brain tumor), or a neurodegenerative or metabolic disorder. Medically induced comas should be considered under the section pertaining to the underlying reason the coma was medically induced and not under this section.
O.
What is multiple sclerosis, and how do we evaluate it under 111.21?
1.
Multiple sclerosis (MS)
is a chronic, inflammatory, degenerative disorder that damages the myelin sheath surrounding the nerve fibers in the brain and spinal cord. The damage disrupts the normal transmission of nerve impulses within the brain and between the brain and other parts of the body causing impairment in muscle coordination, strength, balance, sensation, and vision. There are several forms of MS, ranging from slightly to highly aggressive. Milder forms generally involve acute attacks (exacerbations) with partial or complete recovery from signs and symptoms (remissions). Aggressive forms generally exhibit a steady progression of signs and symptoms with few or no remissions. The effects of all forms vary from child to child.
2. We evaluate your signs and symptoms, such as flaccidity, spasticity, spasms, incoordination, imbalance, tremor, physical fatigue, muscle weakness, dizziness, tingling, and numbness when we determine your ability to stand up, balance, walk, or perform fine and gross motor movements, such as using your arms, hands, and fingers. If you have a vision impairment resulting from your MS, we may evaluate that impairment under the special senses body system, 102.00.
P.
What are motor neuron disorders, and how do we evaluate them under 111.22?
Motor neuron disorders are progressive neurological disorders that destroy the cells that control voluntary muscle activity, such as walking, breathing, swallowing, and speaking. The most common motor neuron disorders in children are progressive bulbar palsy and spinal muscular dystrophy syndromes. We evaluate the effects of these disorders on motor functioning or bulbar and neuromuscular functioning.
Q.
How do we consider symptoms of fatigue in these listings?
Fatigue is one of the most common and limiting symptoms of some neurological disorders, such as multiple sclerosis and myasthenia gravis. These disorders may result in physical fatigue (lack of muscle strength) or mental fatigue (decreased awareness or attention). When we evaluate your fatigue, we will consider the intensity, persistence, and effects of fatigue on your functioning. This may include information such as the clinical and laboratory data and other objective evidence concerning your neurological deficit, a description of fatigue considered characteristic of your disorder, and information about your functioning. We consider the effects of physical fatigue on
your ability to stand up, balance, walk, or perform fine and gross motor movements using the criteria described in 111.00D.
R.
How do we evaluate your neurological disorder when it does not meet one of these listings?
1. If your neurological disorder does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether your impairment(s) meets the criteria of a listing in another body system. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. See § 416.926 of this chapter.
2. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, we will consider whether your impairment(s) functionally equals the listings. See § 416.926a of this chapter.
3. We use the rules in § 416.994a of this chapter when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 111.01 Category of Impairments, Neurological Disorders
111.02
Epilepsy,
documented by a detailed description of a typical seizure and characterized by A or B:
A. Generalized tonic-clonic seizures (see 111.00F1a), occurring at least once a month for at least 3 consecutive months (see 111.00F4) despite adherence to prescribed treatment (see 111.00C); or
B. Dyscognitive seizures (see 111.00F1b) or absence seizures (see 111.00F1c), occurring at least once a week for at least 3 consecutive months (see 111.00F4) despite adherence to prescribed treatment (see 111.00C).
111.03 [Reserved]
111.04
Vascular insult to the brain,
characterized by disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 111.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 111.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities, persisting for at least 3 consecutive months after the insult.
111.05
Benign brain tumors,
characterized by disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 111.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 111.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities.
111.06 [Reserved]
111.07
Cerebral palsy,
characterized by disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 111.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 111.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities.
111.08
Spinal cord disorders,
characterized by A or B:
A. Complete loss of function, as described in 111.00J2, persisting for 3 consecutive months after the disorder (see 111.00J4); or
B. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 111.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 111.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities persisting for 3 consecutive months after the disorder (see 111.00J4).
111.09
Communication impairment,
associated with documented neurological disorder and one of the following:
A. Documented speech deficit that significantly affects (see 111.00K1) the clarity and content of the speech; or
B. Documented comprehension deficit resulting in ineffective verbal communication (see 111.00K2) for age; or
C. Impairment of hearing as described under the criteria in 102.10 or 102.11.
111.10 [Reserved]
111.11 [Reserved]
111.12
Myasthenia gravis,
characterized by A or B despite adherence to prescribed treatment for at least 3 months (see 111.00C):
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 111.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 111.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities; or
B. Bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction (see 111.00E), resulting in:
1. One myasthenic crisis requiring mechanical ventilation; or
2. Need for supplemental enteral nutrition via a gastrostomy or parenteral nutrition via a central venous catheter.
111.13
Muscular dystrophy,
characterized by disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 111.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 111.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities.
111.14
Peripheral neuropathy,
characterized by disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 111.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 111.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities.
111.15 [Reserved]
111.16 [Reserved]
111.17
Neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system, such as Juvenile-onset Huntington's disease and Friedreich's ataxia,
characterized by disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 111.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 111.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities.
111.18
Traumatic brain injury,
characterized by disorganization of motor function in
two extremities (see 111.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 111.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities, persisting for at least 3 consecutive months after the injury.
111.19 [Reserved]
111.20
Coma or persistent vegetative state,
persisting for at least 1 month.
111.21
Multiple sclerosis,
characterized by disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 111.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 111.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities.
111.22
Motor neuron disorders,
characterized by A or B:
A. Disorganization of motor function in two extremities (see 111.00D1), resulting in an extreme limitation (see 111.00D2) in the ability to stand up from a seated position, balance while standing or walking, or use the upper extremities; or
B. Bulbar and neuromuscular dysfunction (see 111.00E), resulting in:
1. Acute respiratory failure requiring invasive mechanical ventilation; or
2. Need for supplemental enteral nutrition via a gastrostomy or parenteral nutrition via a central venous catheter.

# 112.00 Mental Disorders
A.
How are the listings for mental disorders for children arranged, and what do they require?
1. The listings for mental disorders for children are arranged in 12 categories: neurocognitive disorders (112.02); schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic disorders (112.03); depressive, bipolar and related disorders (112.04); intellectual disorder (112.05); anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorders (112.06); somatic symptom and related disorders (112.07); personality and impulse-control disorders (112.08); autism spectrum disorder (112.10); neurodevelopmental disorders (112.11); eating disorders (112.13); developmental disorders in infants and toddlers (112.14); and trauma- and stressor-related disorders (112.15). All of these listings, with the exception of 112.14, apply to children from age three to attainment of age 18. Listing 112.14 is for children from birth to attainment of age 3.
2. Listings 112.07, 112.08, 112.10, 112.11, 112.13, and 112.14 have two paragraphs, designated A and B; your mental disorder must satisfy the requirements of both paragraphs A and B. Listings 112.02, 112.03, 112.04, 112.06, and 112.15 have three paragraphs, designated A, B, and C; your mental disorder must satisfy the requirements of both paragraphs A and B, or the requirements of both paragraphs A and C. Listing 112.05 has two paragraphs that are unique to that listing (see 112.00A3); your mental disorder must satisfy the requirements of either paragraph A or paragraph B.
a. Paragraph A of each listing (except 112.05) includes the medical criteria that must be present in your medical evidence.
b. Paragraph B of each listing (except 112.05) provides the functional criteria we assess to evaluate how your mental disorder limits your functioning. For children ages 3 to 18, these criteria represent the areas of mental functioning a child uses to perform age-appropriate activities. They are: understand, remember, or apply information; interact with others; concentrate, persist, or maintain pace; and adapt or manage oneself. (See 112.00I for a discussion of the criteria for children from birth to attainment of age 3 under 112.14.) We will determine the degree to which your medically determinable mental impairment affects the four areas of mental functioning and your ability to function age-appropriately in a manner comparable to that of other children your age who do not have impairments. (Hereinafter, the words “age-appropriately” incorporate the qualifying statement, “in a manner comparable to that of other children your age who do not have impairments.”) To satisfy the paragraph B criteria, your mental disorder must result in “extreme” limitation of one, or “marked” limitation of two, of the four areas of mental functioning. (When we refer to “paragraph B criteria” or “area[s] of mental functioning” in the introductory text of this body system, we mean the criteria in paragraph B of every listing except 112.05 and 112.14.)
c. Paragraph C of listings 112.02, 112.03, 112.04, 112.06, and 112.15 provides the criteria we use to evaluate “serious and persistent mental disorders.” To satisfy the paragraph C criteria, your mental disorder must be “serious and persistent”; that is, there must be a medically documented history of the existence of the disorder over a period of at least 2 years, and evidence that satisfies the criteria in both C1 and C2 (see 112.00G). (When we refer to “paragraph C” or “the paragraph C criteria” in the introductory text of this body system, we mean the criteria in paragraph C of listings 112.02, 112.03, 112.04, 112.06, and 112.15.)
3. Listing 112.05 has two paragraphs, designated A and B, that apply to only intellectual disorder. Each paragraph requires that you have significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning and significant deficits in current adaptive functioning.
B.
Which mental disorders do we evaluate under each listing category for children?
1.
Neurocognitive disorders (112.02).
a. These disorders are characterized in children by a clinically significant deviation in normal cognitive development or by a decline in cognitive functioning. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited
to, disturbances in memory, executive functioning (that is, higher-level cognitive processes; for example, regulating attention, planning, inhibiting responses, decision-making), visual-spatial functioning, language and speech, perception, insight, and judgment.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include major neurocognitive disorder; mental impairments resulting from medical conditions such as a metabolic disease (for example, juvenile Tay-Sachs disease), human immunodeficiency virus infection, vascular malformation, progressive brain tumor, or traumatic brain injury; or substance-induced cognitive disorder associated with drugs of abuse, medications, or toxins. (We evaluate neurological disorders under that body system (see 111.00). We evaluate cognitive impairments that result from neurological disorders under 112.02 if they do not satisfy the requirements in 111.00. We evaluate catastrophic genetic disorders under listings in 110.00, 111.00, or 112.00, as appropriate. We evaluate genetic disorders that are not catastrophic under the affected body system(s).)
c. This category does not include the mental disorders that we evaluate under intellectual disorder (112.05), autism spectrum disorder (112.10), and neurodevelopmental disorders (112.11).
2.
Schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic disorders (112.03).
a. These disorders are characterized by delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, or grossly disorganized or catatonic behavior, causing a clinically significant decline in functioning. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, inability to initiate and persist in goal-directed activities, social withdrawal, flat or inappropriate affect, poverty of thought and speech, loss of interest or pleasure, disturbances of mood, odd beliefs and mannerisms, and paranoia.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, delusional disorder, and psychotic disorder due to another medical condition.
3.
Depressive, bipolar and related disorders (112.04).
a. These disorders are characterized by an irritable, depressed, elevated, or expansive mood, or by a loss of interest or pleasure in all or almost all activities, causing a clinically significant decline in functioning. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, feelings of hopelessness or guilt, suicidal ideation, a clinically significant change in body weight or appetite, sleep disturbances, an increase or decrease in energy, psychomotor abnormalities, disturbed concentration, pressured speech, grandiosity, reduced impulse control, sadness, euphoria, and social withdrawal. Depending on a child's age and developmental stage, certain features, such as somatic complaints, irritability, anger, aggression, and social withdrawal may be more commonly present than other features.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include bipolar disorders (I or II), cyclothymic disorder, disruptive mood dysregulation disorder, major depressive disorder, persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia), and bipolar or depressive disorder due to another medical condition.
4.
Intellectual disorder (112.05).
a. This disorder is characterized by significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning and significant deficits in current adaptive functioning. Signs may include, but are not limited to, poor conceptual, social, or practical skills evident in your adaptive functioning.
b. The disorder that we evaluate in this category may be described in the evidence as intellectual disability, intellectual developmental disorder, or historically used terms such as “mental retardation.”
c. This category does not include the mental disorders that we evaluate under neurocognitive disorders (112.02), autism spectrum disorder (112.10), or neurodevelopmental disorders (112.11).
5.
Anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorders (112.06).
a. These disorders are characterized by excessive anxiety, worry, apprehension, and fear, or by avoidance of feelings, thoughts, activities, objects, places, or people. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, restlessness, difficulty concentrating, hyper-vigilance, muscle tension, sleep disturbance, fatigue, panic attacks, obsessions and compulsions, constant thoughts and fears about safety, and frequent physical complaints. Depending on a child's age and developmental stage, other features may also include refusal to go to school, academic failure, frequent stomachaches and other physical complaints, extreme worries about sleeping away from home, being overly clinging, and exhibiting tantrums at times of separation from caregivers.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include separation anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder, panic disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, agoraphobia, and obsessive-compulsive disorder.
c. This category does not include the mental disorders that we evaluate under trauma- and stressor-related disorders (112.15).
6.
Somatic symptom and related disorders (112.07).
a. These disorders are characterized by physical symptoms or deficits that are not intentionally produced or feigned, and that, following clinical investigation, cannot be fully explained by a general medical condition, another mental disorder, the direct effects of a substance, or a culturally sanctioned behavior or experience. Symptoms
and signs may include, but are not limited to, pain and other abnormalities of sensation, gastrointestinal symptoms, fatigue, abnormal motor movement, pseudoseizures, and pseudoneurological symptoms, such as blindness or deafness.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include somatic symptom disorder and conversion disorder.
7.
Personality and impulse-control disorders (112.08).
a. These disorders are characterized by enduring, inflexible, maladaptive, and pervasive patterns of behavior. Onset may occur in childhood but more typically occurs in adolescence or young adulthood. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, patterns of distrust, suspiciousness, and odd beliefs; social detachment, discomfort, or avoidance; hypersensitivity to negative evaluation; an excessive need to be taken care of; difficulty making independent decisions; a preoccupation with orderliness, perfectionism, and control; and inappropriate, intense, impulsive anger and behavioral expression grossly out of proportion to any external provocation or psychosocial stressors.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include paranoid, schizoid, schizotypal, borderline, avoidant, dependent, obsessive-compulsive personality disorders, and intermittent explosive disorder.
8.
Autism spectrum disorder (112.10).
a. These disorders are characterized by qualitative deficits in the development of reciprocal social interaction, verbal and nonverbal communication skills, and symbolic or imaginative play; restricted repetitive and stereotyped patterns of behavior, interests, and activities; and stagnation of development or loss of acquired skills. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, abnormalities and unevenness in the development of cognitive skills; unusual responses to sensory stimuli; and behavioral difficulties, including hyperactivity, short attention span, impulsivity, aggressiveness, or self-injurious actions.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include autism spectrum disorder with or without accompanying intellectual impairment, and autism spectrum disorder with or without accompanying language impairment.
c. This category does not include the mental disorders that we evaluate under neurocognitive disorders (112.02), intellectual disorder (112.05), and neurodevelopmental disorders (112.11).
9.
Neurodevelopmental disorders (112.11).
a. These disorders are characterized by onset during the developmental period, that is, during childhood or adolescence, although sometimes they are not diagnosed until adulthood. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, underlying abnormalities in cognitive processing (for example, deficits in learning and applying verbal or nonverbal information, visual perception, memory, or a combination of these); deficits in attention or impulse control; low frustration tolerance; excessive or poorly planned motor activity; difficulty with organizing (time, space, materials, or tasks); repeated accidental injury; and deficits in social skills. Symptoms and signs specific to tic disorders include sudden, rapid, recurrent, non-rhythmic, motor movement or vocalization.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include specific learning disorder, borderline intellectual functioning, and tic disorders (such as Tourette syndrome).
c. This category does not include the mental disorders that we evaluate under neurocognitive disorders (112.02), autism spectrum disorder (112.10), or personality and impulse-control disorders (112.08).
10.
Eating disorders (112.13).
a. These disorders are characterized in young children by persistent eating of nonnutritive substances or repeated episodes of regurgitation and re-chewing of food, or by persistent failure to consume adequate nutrition by mouth. In adolescence, these disorders are characterized by disturbances in eating behavior and preoccupation with, and excessive self-evaluation of, body weight and shape. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, failure to make expected weight gains; restriction of energy consumption when compared with individual requirements; recurrent episodes of binge eating or behavior intended to prevent weight gain, such as self-induced vomiting, excessive exercise, or misuse of laxatives; mood disturbances, social withdrawal, or irritability; amenorrhea; dental problems; abnormal laboratory findings; and cardiac abnormalities.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, binge-eating disorder, and avoidant/restrictive food disorder.
11.
Developmental disorders in infants and toddlers (112.14).
a. Developmental disorders are characterized by a delay or deficit in the development of age-appropriate skills, or a loss of previously acquired skills, involving motor planning and control, learning, relating and communicating, and self-regulating.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include developmental coordination disorder, separation anxiety disorder, autism spectrum disorder, and regulation disorders of sensory processing (difficulties in regulating emotions, behaviors, and motor abilities in response to sensory stimulation). Some infants and toddlers may have only a general diagnosis of “developmental delay.”
c. This category does not include eating disorders related to low birth weight and
failure to thrive, which we evaluate under that body system (100.00).
12.
Trauma- and stressor-related disorders (112.15).
a. These disorders are characterized by experiencing or witnessing a traumatic or stressful event, or learning of a traumatic event occurring to a close family member or close friend, and the psychological aftermath of clinically significant effects on functioning. Symptoms and signs may include, but are not limited to, distressing memories, dreams, and flashbacks related to the trauma or stressor; avoidant or withdrawn behavior; constriction of play and significant activities; increased frequency of negative emotional states (for example, fear, sadness) or reduced expression of positive emotions (for example, satisfaction, affection); anxiety; irritability; aggression; exaggerated startle response; difficulty concentrating; sleep disturbance; and a loss of previously acquired developmental skills.
b. Examples of disorders that we evaluate in this category include posttraumatic stress disorder, reactive attachment disorder, and other specified trauma- and stressor-related disorders (such as adjustment-like disorders with prolonged duration without prolonged duration of stressor).
c. This category does not include the mental disorders that we evaluate under anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorders (112.06), and cognitive impairments that result from neurological disorders, such as a traumatic brain injury, which we evaluate under neurocognitive disorders (112.02).
C.
What evidence do we need to evaluate your mental disorder?
1.
General.
We need objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source to establish that you have a medically determinable mental disorder. We also need evidence to assess the severity of your mental disorder and its effects on your ability to function age-appropriately. We will determine the extent and kinds of evidence we need from medical and nonmedical sources based on the individual facts about your disorder. For additional evidence requirements for intellectual disorder (112.05), see 112.00H. For our basic rules on evidence, see §§ 416.912, 416.913, and 416.920b of this chapter. For our rules on evaluating medical opinions, see §§ 416.1520c and 416.927 of this chapter. For our rules on evidence about your symptoms, see § 416.929 of this chapter.
2.
Evidence from medical sources.
We will consider all relevant medical evidence about your disorder from your physician, psychologist, and other medical sources, which include health care providers such as physician assistants, psychiatric nurse practitioners, licensed clinical social workers, and clinical mental health counselors. Evidence from your medical sources may include:
a. Your reported symptoms.
b. Your developmental, medical, psychiatric, and psychological history.
c. The results of physical or mental status examinations, structured clinical interviews, psychiatric or psychological rating scales, measures of adaptive functioning, or other clinical findings.
d. Developmental assessments, psychological testing, imaging results, or other laboratory findings.
e. Your diagnosis.
f. The type, dosage, and beneficial effects of medications you take.
g. The type, frequency, duration, and beneficial effects of therapy you receive.
h. Side effects of medication or other treatment that limit your ability to function.
i. Your clinical course, including changes in your medication, therapy, or other treatment, and the time required for therapeutic effectiveness.
j. Observations and descriptions of how you function during examinations or therapy.
k. Information about sensory, motor, or speech abnormalities, or about your cultural background (for example, language or customs) that may affect an evaluation of your mental disorder.
l. The expected duration of your symptoms and signs and their effects on your ability to function age-appropriately, both currently and in the future.
3.
Evidence from you and people who know you.
We will consider all relevant evidence about your mental disorder and your daily functioning that we receive from you and from people who know you. If you are too young or unable to describe your symptoms and your functioning, we will ask for a description from the person who is most familiar with you. We will ask about your symptoms, your daily functioning, and your medical treatment. We will ask for information from third parties who can tell us about your mental disorder, but we must have permission to do so. This evidence may include information from your family, caregivers, teachers, other educators, neighbors, clergy, case managers, social workers, shelter staff, or other community support and outreach workers. We will consider whether your statements and the statements from third parties are consistent with the medical and other evidence we have.
4.
Evidence from early intervention programs, school, vocational training, work, and work-related programs.
a.
Early intervention programs.
You may receive services in an Early Intervention Program (EIP) to help you with your developmental needs. If so, we will consider information from your Individualized Family Service Plan (IFSP) and the early intervention specialists who help you.
b.
School.
You may receive special education or related services at your preschool
or school. If so, we will try to obtain information from your school sources when we need it to assess how your mental disorder affects your ability to function. Examples of this information include your Individualized Education Programs (IEPs), your Section 504 plans, comprehensive evaluation reports, school-related therapy progress notes, information from your teachers about how you function in a classroom setting, and information from special educators, nurses, school psychologists, and occupational, physical, and speech/language therapists about any special education services or accommodations you receive at school.
c.
Vocational training, work, and work-related programs.
You may have recently participated in or may still be participating in vocational training, work-related programs, or work activity. If so, we will try to obtain information from your training program or your employer when we need it to assess how your mental disorder affects your ability to function. Examples of this information include training or work evaluations, modifications to your work duties or work schedule, and any special supports or accommodations you have required or now require in order to work. If you have worked or are working through a community mental health program, sheltered or supported work program, rehabilitation program, or transitional employment program, we will consider the type and degree of support you have received or are receiving in order to work (see 112.00D).
5.
Need for longitudinal evidence.
a.
General.
Longitudinal medical evidence can help us learn how you function over time, and help us evaluate any variations in the level of your functioning. We will request longitudinal evidence of your mental disorder when your medical providers have records concerning you and your mental disorder over a period of months or perhaps years (see § 416.912(d) of this chapter).
b.
Non-medical sources of longitudinal evidence.
Certain situations, such as chronic homelessness, may make it difficult for you to provide longitudinal medical evidence. If you have a severe mental disorder, you will probably have evidence of its effects on your functioning over time, even if you have not had an ongoing relationship with the medical community or are not currently receiving treatment. For example, family members, caregivers, teachers, neighbors, former employers, social workers, case managers, community support staff, outreach workers, or government agencies may be familiar with your mental health history. We will ask for information from third parties who can tell us about your mental disorder, but you must give us permission to do so.
c.
Absence of longitudinal evidence.
In the absence of longitudinal evidence, we will use current objective medical evidence and all other relevant evidence available to us in your case record to evaluate your mental disorder. If we purchase a consultative examination to document your disorder, the record will include the results of that examination (see § 416.914 of this chapter). We will take into consideration your medical history, symptoms, clinical and laboratory findings, and medical source opinions. If you do not have longitudinal evidence, the current evidence alone may not be sufficient or appropriate to show that you have a disorder that meets the criteria of one of the mental disorders listings. In that case, we will follow the rules in 112.00K.
6.
Evidence of functioning in unfamiliar situations or supportive situations.
a.
Unfamiliar situations.
We recognize that evidence about your functioning in unfamiliar situations does not necessarily show how you would function on a sustained basis in a school or other age-appropriate setting. In one-time, time-limited, or other unfamiliar situations, you may function differently than you do in familiar situations. In unfamiliar situations, you may appear more, or less, limited than you do on a daily basis and over time.
b.
Supportive situations.
Your ability to function in settings that are highly structured, or that are less demanding or more supportive than settings in which children your age without impairments typically function, does not necessarily demonstrate your ability to function age-appropriately.
c.
Our assessment.
We must assess your ability to function age-appropriately by evaluating all the evidence, such as reports about your functioning from third parties who are familiar with you, with an emphasis on how well you can initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities despite your impairment(s), compared to other children your age who do not have impairments.
D.
How do we consider psychosocial supports, structured settings, living arrangements, and treatment when we evaluate the functioning of children?
1.
General.
Psychosocial supports, structured settings, and living arrangements, including assistance from your family or others, may help you by reducing the demands made on you. In addition, treatment you receive may reduce your symptoms and signs and possibly improve your functioning, or may have side effects that limit your functioning. Therefore, when we evaluate the effects of your mental disorder and rate the limitation of your areas of mental functioning, we will consider the kind and extent of supports you receive, the characteristics of any structured setting in which you spend your time (compared to children your age without impairments), and the effects of any treatment. This evidence may come from reports about your functioning from third parties who are familiar with you, and other
third-party statements or information. Following are some examples of the supports you may receive:
a. You receive help from family members or other people in ways that children your age without impairments typically do not need in order to function age-appropriately. For example, an aide may accompany you on the school bus to help you control your actions or to monitor you to ensure you do not injure yourself or others.
b. You receive one-on-one assistance in your classes every day; or you have a full-time personal aide who helps you to function in your classroom; or you are a student in a self-contained classroom; or you attend a separate or alternative school where you receive special education services.
c. You participate in a special education or vocational training program, or a psychosocial rehabilitation day treatment or community support program, where you receive training in daily living and entry-level work skills.
d. You participate in a sheltered, supported, or transitional work program, or in a competitive employment setting with the help of a job coach or supervisor.
e. You receive comprehensive “24/7 wrap-around” mental health services while living in a group home or transitional housing, while participating in a semi-independent living program, or while living at home.
f. You live in a residential school, hospital, or other institution with 24-hour care.
g. You receive assistance from a crisis response team, social workers, or community mental health workers who help you meet your physical needs, and who may also represent you in dealings with government or community social services.
2.
How we consider different levels of support and structure in psychosocial rehabilitation programs.
a. Psychosocial rehabilitation programs are based on your specific needs. Therefore, we cannot make any assumptions about your mental disorder based solely on the fact that you are associated with such a program. We must know the details of the program(s) in which you are involved and the pattern(s) of your involvement over time.
b. The kinds and levels of supports and structures in psychosocial rehabilitation programs typically occur on a scale of “most restrictive” to “least restrictive.” Participation in a psychosocial rehabilitation program at the most restrictive level would suggest greater limitation of your areas of mental functioning than would participation at a less restrictive level. The length of time you spend at different levels in a program also provides information about your functioning. For example, you could begin participation at the most restrictive crisis intervention level but gradually improve to the point of readiness for a lesser level of support and structure and, if you are an older adolescent, possibly some form of employment.
3.
How we consider the help or support you receive.
a. We will consider the complete picture of your daily functioning, including the kinds, extent, and frequency of help and support you receive, when we evaluate your mental disorder and determine whether you are able to use the four areas of mental functioning age-appropriately. The fact that you have done, or currently do, some routine activities without help or support does not necessarily mean that you do not have a mental disorder or that you are not disabled. For example, you may be able to take age-appropriate care of your personal needs, or you may be old enough and able to cook, shop, and take public transportation. You may demonstrate both strengths and deficits in your daily functioning.
b. You may receive various kinds of help and support from others that enable you to do many things that, because of your mental disorder, you might not be able to do independently. Your daily functioning may depend on the special contexts in which you function. For example, you may spend your time among only familiar people or surroundings, in a simple and steady routine or an unchanging environment, or in a highly structured classroom or alternative school. However, this does not necessarily show whether you would function age-appropriately without those supports or contexts. (See 112.00H for further discussion of these issues regarding significant deficits in adaptive functioning for the purpose of 112.05.)
4.
How we consider treatment.
We will consider the effect of any treatment on your functioning when we evaluate your mental disorder. Treatment may include medication(s), psychotherapy, or other forms of intervention, which you receive in a doctor's office, during a hospitalization, or in a day program at a hospital or outpatient treatment program. With treatment, you may not only have your symptoms and signs reduced, but may also be able to function age-appropriately. However, treatment may not resolve all of the limitations that result from your mental disorder, and the medications you take or other treatment you receive for your disorder may cause side effects that limit your mental or physical functioning. For example, you may experience drowsiness, blunted affect, memory loss, or abnormal involuntary movements.
E.
What are the paragraph B criteria for children age 3 to the attainment of age 18?
1.
Understand, remember, or apply information (paragraph B1).
This area of mental functioning refers to the abilities to learn, recall, and use information to perform age-appropriate activities. Examples include: Understanding and learning terms, instructions,
procedures; following one- or two-step oral instructions to carry out a task; describing an activity to someone else; asking and answering questions and providing explanations; recognizing a mistake and correcting it; identifying and solving problems; sequencing multi-step activities; and using reason and judgment to make decisions. These examples illustrate the nature of the area of mental functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples. How you manifest this area of mental functioning and your limitations in using it depends, in part, on your age.
2.
Interact with others (paragraph B2).
This area of mental functioning refers to the abilities to relate to others age-appropriately at home, at school, and in the community. Examples include: Engaging in interactive play; cooperating with others; asking for help when needed; initiating and maintaining friendships; handling conflicts with others; stating own point of view; initiating or sustaining conversation; understanding and responding to social cues (physical, verbal, emotional); responding to requests, suggestions, criticism, correction, and challenges; and keeping social interactions free of excessive irritability, sensitivity, argumentativeness, or suspiciousness. These examples illustrate the nature of this area of mental functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples. How you manifest this area of mental functioning and your limitations in using it depends, in part, on your age.
3.
Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (paragraph B3).
This area of mental functioning refers to the abilities to focus attention on activities and stay on task age-appropriately. Examples include: Initiating and performing an activity that you understand and know how to do; engaging in an activity at home or in school at an appropriate and consistent pace; completing tasks in a timely manner; ignoring or avoiding distractions while engaged in an activity or task; changing activities without being disruptive; engaging in an activity or task close to or with others without interrupting or distracting them; sustaining an ordinary routine and regular attendance at school; and engaging in activities at home, school, or in the community without needing an unusual amount of rest. These examples illustrate the nature of this area of mental functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples. How you manifest this area of mental functioning and your limitations in using it depends, in part, on your age.
4.
Adapt or manage oneself (paragraph B4).
This area of mental functioning refers to the abilities to regulate emotions, control behavior, and maintain well-being in age-appropriate activities and settings. Examples include: Responding to demands; adapting to changes; managing your psychologically based symptoms; distinguishing between acceptable and unacceptable performance in community- or school-related activities; setting goals; making plans independently of others; maintaining personal hygiene; and protecting yourself from harm and exploitation by others. These examples illustrate the nature of this area of mental functioning. We do not require documentation of all of the examples. How you manifest this area of mental functioning and your limitations in using it depends, in part, on your age.
F.
How do we use the paragraph B criteria to evaluate mental disorders in children?
1.
General.
We use the paragraph B criteria to rate the degree of your limitations. We consider only the limitations that result from your mental disorder(s). We will determine whether you are able to use each of the paragraph B areas of mental functioning in age-appropriate activities in a manner comparable to that of other children your age who do not have impairments. We will consider, for example, the range of your activities and whether they are age-appropriate; how well you can initiate, sustain, and complete your activities; the kinds and frequency of help or supervision you receive; and the kinds of structured or supportive settings you need in order to function age-appropriately (see 112.00D).
2.
Degrees of limitation.
We evaluate the effects of your mental disorder on each of the four areas of mental functioning. To satisfy the paragraph B criteria, your mental disorder must result in extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, paragraph B areas of mental functioning. See §§ 416.925(b)(2)(ii) and 416.926a(e) of this chapter for the definitions of the terms marked and extreme as they apply to children.
3.
Rating the limitations of your areas of mental functioning.
a.
General.
We use all of the relevant medical and non-medical evidence in your case record to evaluate your mental disorder: The symptoms and signs of your disorder, the reported limitations in your activities, and any help and support you receive that is necessary for you to function. The medical evidence may include descriptors regarding the diagnostic stage or level of your disorder, such as “mild” or “moderate.” Clinicians may use these terms to characterize your medical condition. However, these terms will not always be the same as the degree of your limitation in a paragraph B area of mental functioning.
b.
Areas of mental functioning in daily activities.
You use the same four areas of mental functioning in daily activities at home, at school, and in the community. With respect to a particular task or activity, you may have trouble using one or more of the areas.
For example, you may have difficulty understanding and remembering what to do; or concentrating and staying on task long enough to do it; or engaging in the task or activity with other people; or trying to do the task without becoming frustrated and losing self-control. Information about your daily functioning in your activities at home, at school, or in your community can help us understand whether your mental disorder limits one or more of these areas; and, if so, whether it also affects your ability to function age-appropriately.
c.
Overall effect of limitations.
Limitation of an area of mental functioning reflects the overall degree to which your mental disorder interferes with that area. The degree of limitation does not necessarily reflect a specific type or number of activities, including activities of daily living, that you have difficulty doing. In addition, no single piece of information (including test results) can establish whether you have extreme or marked limitation of an area of mental functioning.
d.
Effects of support, supervision, structure on functioning.
The degree of limitation of an area of mental functioning also reflects the kind and extent of supports or supervision you receive (beyond what other children your age without impairments typically receive) and the characteristics of any structured setting where you spend your time, which enable you to function. The more extensive the support you need from others (beyond what is age-appropriate) or the more structured the setting you need in order to function, the more limited we will find you to be (see 112.00D).
e.
Specific instructions for paragraphs B1, B3, and B4.
For paragraphs B1, B3, and B4, the greatest degree of limitation of any part of the area of mental functioning directs the rating of limitation of that whole area of mental functioning.
(i) To do an age-appropriate activity, you must be able to understand
and
remember
and
apply information required by the activity. Similarly, you must be able to concentrate
and
persist
and
maintain pace in order to complete the activity, and adapt
and
manage yourself age-appropriately. Limitation in any one of these parts (understand
or
remember
or
apply; concentrate
or
persist
or
maintain pace; adapt
or
manage oneself) may prevent you from completing age-appropriate activities.
(ii) We will document the rating of limitation of the whole area of mental functioning, not each individual part. We will not add ratings of the parts together. For example, with respect to paragraph B3, if you have marked limitation in concentrating, but your limitations in persisting and maintaining pace do not rise to a marked level, we will find that you have marked limitation in the whole paragraph B3 area of mental functioning.
(iii) Marked limitation in more than one part of the same paragraph B area of mental functioning does not satisfy the requirement to have marked limitation in two paragraph B areas of mental functioning.
4.
How we evaluate mental disorders involving exacerbations and remissions.
a. When we evaluate the effects of your mental disorder, we will consider how often you have exacerbations and remissions, how long they last, what causes your mental disorder to worsen or improve, and any other relevant information. We will assess whether your mental impairment(s) causes marked or extreme limitation of the affected paragraph B area(s) of mental functioning (see 112.00F2). We will consider whether you can use the area of mental functioning age-appropriately on a sustained basis. We will not find that you function age-appropriately solely because you have a period(s) of improvement (remission), or that you are disabled solely because you have a period of worsening (exacerbation), of your mental disorder.
b. If you have a mental disorder involving exacerbations and remissions, you may be able to use the four areas of mental functioning at home, at school, or in the community for a few weeks or months. Recurrence or worsening of symptoms and signs, however, can interfere enough to render you unable to function age-appropriately.
G.
What are the paragraph C criteria, and how do we use them to evaluate mental disorders in children age 3 to the attainment of age 18?
1.
General.
The paragraph C criteria are an alternative to the paragraph B criteria under listings 112.02, 112.03, 112.04, 112.06, and 112.15. We use the paragraph C criteria to evaluate mental disorders that are “serious and persistent.” In the paragraph C criteria, we recognize that mental health interventions may control the more obvious symptoms and signs of your mental disorder.
2.
Paragraph C criteria.
a. We find a mental disorder to be “serious and persistent” when there is a medically documented history of the existence of the mental disorder in the listing category over a period of at least 2 years, and evidence shows that your disorder satisfies both C1 and C2.
b. The criterion in C1 is satisfied when the evidence shows that you rely, on an ongoing basis, upon medical treatment, mental health therapy, psychosocial support(s), or a highly structured setting(s), to diminish the symptoms and signs of your mental disorder (see 112.00D). We consider that you receive ongoing medical treatment when the medical evidence establishes that you obtain medical treatment with a frequency consistent with accepted medical practice for the type of treatment or evaluation required for your medical condition. We will consider
periods of inconsistent treatment or lack of compliance with treatment that may result from your mental disorder. If the evidence indicates that the inconsistent treatment or lack of compliance is a feature of your mental disorder, and it has led to an exacerbation of your symptoms and signs, we will not use it as evidence to support a finding that you have not received ongoing medical treatment as required by this paragraph.
c. The criterion in C2 is satisfied when the evidence shows that, despite your diminished symptoms and signs, you have achieved only marginal adjustment. “Marginal adjustment” means that your adaptation to the requirements of daily life is fragile; that is, you have minimal capacity to adapt to changes in your environment or to demands that are not already part of your daily life. We will consider that you have achieved only marginal adjustment when the evidence shows that changes or increased demands have led to exacerbation of your symptoms and signs and to deterioration in your functioning; for example, you have become unable to function outside of your home or a more restrictive setting, without substantial psychosocial supports (see 112.00D). Such deterioration may have necessitated a significant change in medication or other treatment. Similarly, because of the nature of your mental disorder, evidence may document episodes of deterioration that have required you to be hospitalized or absent from school, making it difficult for you to sustain age-appropriate activity over time.
H.
How do we document and evaluate intellectual disorder under 112.05?
1.
General.
Listing 112.05 is based on the two elements that characterize intellectual disorder for children up to age 18: Significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning and significant deficits in current adaptive functioning.
2.
Establishing significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning.
a.
Definition.
Intellectual functioning refers to the general mental capacity to learn, reason, plan, solve problems, and perform other cognitive functions. Under 112.05A, we identify significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning by the cognitive inability to function at a level required to participate in standardized intelligence testing. Our findings under 112.05A are based on evidence from an acceptable medical source. Under 112.05B, we identify significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning by an IQ score(s) on an individually administered standardized test of general intelligence that meets program requirements and has a mean of 100 and a standard deviation of 15. A qualified specialist (see 112.00H2c) must administer the standardized intelligence testing.
b.
Psychometric standards.
We will find standardized intelligence test results usable for the purposes of 112.05B1 when the measure employed meets contemporary psychometric standards for validity, reliability, normative data, and scope of measurement; and a qualified specialist has individually administered the test according to all pre-requisite testing conditions.
c.
Qualified specialist.
A “qualified specialist” is currently licensed or certified at the independent level of practice in the State where the test was performed, and has the training and experience to administer, score, and interpret intelligence tests. If a psychological assistant or paraprofessional administered the test, a supervisory qualified specialist must interpret the test findings and co-sign the examination report.
d.
Responsibility for conclusions based on testing.
We generally presume that your obtained IQ score(s) is an accurate reflection of your general intellectual functioning, unless evidence in the record suggests otherwise. Examples of this evidence include: A statement from the test administrator indicating that your obtained score is not an accurate reflection of your general intellectual functioning, prior or internally inconsistent IQ scores, or information about your daily functioning. Only qualified specialists, Federal and State agency medical and psychological consultants, and other contracted medical and psychological experts may conclude that your obtained IQ score(s) is not an accurate reflection of your general intellectual functioning. This conclusion must be well supported by appropriate clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques and must be based on relevant evidence in the case record, such as:
(i) The data obtained in testing;
(ii) Your developmental history, including when your signs and symptoms began;
(iii) Information about how you function on a daily basis in a variety of settings; and
(iv) Clinical observations made during the testing period, such as your ability to sustain attention, concentration, and effort; to relate appropriately to the examiner; and to perform tasks independently without prompts or reminders.
3.
Establishing significant deficits in adaptive functioning.
a.
Definition.
Adaptive functioning refers to how you learn and use conceptual, social, and practical skills in dealing with common life demands. It is your typical functioning at home, at school, and in the community, alone or among others. Under 112.05A, we identify significant deficits in adaptive functioning based on your dependence on others to care for your personal needs, such as eating and bathing (grossly in excess of age-appropriate dependence). We will base our conclusions about your adaptive functioning on evidence from a variety of sources (see 112.00H3b) and not on your statements alone.
Under 112.05B2, we identify significant deficits in adaptive functioning based on whether there is extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the paragraph B criteria (see 112.00E; 112.00F).
b.
Evidence.
Evidence about your adaptive functioning may come from:
(i) Medical sources, including their clinical observations;
(ii) Standardized tests of adaptive functioning (see 112.00H3c);
(iii) Third party information, such as a report of your functioning from a family member or your caregiver;
(iv) School records;
(v) A teacher questionnaire;
(vi) Reports from employers or supervisors; and
(vii) Your own statements about how you handle all of your daily activities.
c.
Standardized tests of adaptive functioning.
We do not require the results of an individually administered standardized test of adaptive functioning. If your case record includes these test results, we will consider the results along with all other relevant evidence; however, we will use the guidelines in 112.00E and F to evaluate and determine the degree of your deficits in adaptive functioning, as required under 112.05B2.
d.
Standardized developmental assessments.
We do not require the results of standardized developmental assessments, which compare your level of development to the level typically expected for your chronological age. If your case record includes test results, we will consider the results along with all other relevant evidence. However, we will use the guidelines in 112.00E and F to evaluate and determine the degree of your deficits in adaptive functioning, as required under 112.05B2.
e.
How we consider common everyday activities.
(i) The fact that you engage in common everyday activities, such as caring for your personal needs, preparing simple meals, or driving a car, will not always mean that you do not have deficits in adaptive functioning as required by 112.05B2. You may demonstrate both strengths and deficits in your adaptive functioning. However, a lack of deficits in one area does not negate the presence of deficits in another area. When we assess your adaptive functioning, we will consider all of your activities and your performance of them.
(ii) Our conclusions about your adaptive functioning rest on the quality of your daily activities and whether you do them age-appropriately. If you receive help in performing your activities, we need to know the kind, extent, and frequency of help you receive in order to perform them. We will not assume that your ability to do some common everyday activities, or to do some things without help or support, demonstrates that your mental disorder does not meet the requirements of 112.05B2. (See 112.00D regarding the factors we consider when we evaluate your functioning, including how we consider any help or support you receive.)
f.
How we consider work activity.
The fact that you have engaged in work activity, or that you work intermittently or steadily in a job commensurate with your abilities, will not always mean that you do not have deficits in adaptive functioning as required by 112.05B2. When you have engaged in work activity, we need complete information about the work, and about your functioning in the work activity and work setting, before we reach any conclusions about your adaptive functioning. We will consider all factors involved in your work history before concluding whether your impairment satisfies the criteria for intellectual disorder under 112.05B. We will consider your prior and current work history, if any, and various other factors influencing how you function. For example, we consider whether the work was in a supported setting, whether you required more supervision than other employees, how your job duties compared to others in the same job, how much time it took you to learn the job duties, and the reason the work ended, if applicable.
I.
What additional considerations do we use to evaluate developmental disorders of infants and toddlers?
1.
General.
We evaluate developmental disorders from birth to attainment of age 3 under 112.14. We evaluate your ability to acquire and maintain the motor, cognitive, social/communicative, and emotional skills that you need to function age-appropriately. When we rate your impairment-related limitations for this listing (see §§ 416.925(b)(2)(ii) and 416.926a(e) of this chapter), we consider only limitations you have because of your developmental disorder. If you have a chronic illness or physical abnormality(ies), we will evaluate it under the affected body system, for example, the cardiovascular or musculoskeletal system.
2.
Age and typical development in early childhood.
a.
Prematurity and age.
If you were born prematurely, we will use your corrected chronological age (CCA) for comparison. CCA is your chronological age adjusted by a period of gestational prematurity. CCA = (chronological age)−(number of weeks premature). If you have not attained age 1, we will correct your chronological age, using the same formula. If you are over age 1, we will decide whether to correct your chronological age, based on our judgment and all the facts of your case (see § 416.924b(b) of this chapter).
b.
Developmental assessment.
We will use the results from a standardized developmental assessment to compare your level of development with that typically expected for your
chronological age. When there are no results from a comprehensive standardized developmental assessment in the case record, we need narrative developmental reports from your medical sources in sufficient detail to assess the limitations resulting from your developmental disorder.
c.
Variation.
When we evaluate your developmental disorder, we will consider the wide variation in the range of normal or typical development in early childhood. At the end of a recognized milestone period, new skills typically begin to emerge. If your new skills begin to emerge later than is typically expected, the timing of their emergence may or may not indicate that you have a developmental delay or deficit that can be expected to last for 1 year.
3.
Evidence.
a.
Standardized developmental assessments.
We use standardized test reports from acceptable medical sources or from early intervention specialists, physical or occupational therapists, and other qualified professionals. Only the qualified professional who administers the test, Federal and State agency medical and psychological consultants, and other contracted medical and psychological experts may conclude that the assessment results are not an accurate reflection of your development. This conclusion must be well supported by appropriate clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques and must be based on relevant evidence in the case record. If the assessment results are not an accurate reflection of your development, we may purchase a new developmental assessment. If the developmental assessment is inconsistent with other information in your case record, we will follow the guidelines in § 416.920b of this chapter.
b.
Narrative developmental reports.
A narrative developmental report is based on clinical observations, progress notes, and well-baby check-ups, and includes your developmental history, examination findings (with abnormal findings noted on repeated examinations), and an overall assessment of your development (that is, more than one or two isolated skills) by the medical source. Although medical sources may refer to screening test results as supporting evidence in the narrative developmental report, screening test results alone cannot establish a diagnosis or the severity of developmental disorder.
4.
What are the paragraph B criteria for 112.14?
a.
General.
The paragraph B criteria for 112.14 are slightly different from the paragraph B criteria for the other listings. They are the developmental abilities that infants and toddlers use to acquire and maintain the skills needed to function age-appropriately. An infant or toddler is expected to use his or her developmental abilities to achieve a recognized pattern of milestones, over a typical range of time, in order to acquire and maintain the skills needed to function age-appropriately. We will find that your developmental disorder satisfies the requirements of 112.14 if it results in extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the 112.14 paragraph B criteria. (See §§ 416.925(b)(2)(ii) and 416.926a(e) of this chapter for the definitions of the terms marked and extreme as they apply to children.)
b.
Definitions of the 112.14 paragraph B developmental abilities.
(i)
Ability to plan and control motor movement.
This criterion refers to the developmental ability to plan, remember, and execute controlled motor movements by integrating and coordinating perceptual and sensory input with motor output. Using this ability develops gross and fine motor skills, and makes it possible for you to engage in age-appropriate symmetrical or alternating motor activities. You use this ability when, for example, you grasp and hold objects with one or both hands, pull yourself up to stand, walk without holding on, and go up and down stairs with alternating feet. These examples illustrate the nature of the developmental ability. We do not require documentation of all of the examples. How you manifest this developmental ability and your limitations in using it depends, in part, on your age.
(ii)
Ability to learn and remember.
This criterion refers to the developmental ability to learn by exploring the environment, engaging in trial-and-error experimentation, putting things in groups, understanding that words represent things, and participating in pretend play. Using this ability develops the skills that help you understand what things mean, how things work, and how you can make things happen. You use this ability when, for example, you show interest in objects that are new to you, imitate simple actions, name body parts, understand simple cause-and-effect relationships, remember simple directions, or figure out how to take something apart. These examples illustrate the nature of the developmental ability. We do not require documentation of all of the examples. How you manifest this developmental ability and your limitations in using it depends, in part, on your age.
(iii)
Ability to interact with others.
This criterion refers to the developmental ability to participate in reciprocal social interactions and relationships by communicating your feelings and intents through vocal and visual signals and exchanges; physical gestures and contact; shared attention and affection; verbal turn taking; and understanding and sending increasingly complex messages. Using this ability develops the social skills that make it possible for you to influence others (for example, by gesturing for a toy or saying “no” to stop an action); invite someone to interact with you (for example, by
smiling or reaching); and draw someone's attention to what interests you (for example, by pointing or taking your caregiver's hand and leading that person). You use this ability when, for example, you use vocalizations to initiate and sustain a “conversation” with your caregiver; respond to limits set by an adult with words, gestures, or facial expressions; play alongside another child; or participate in simple group activities with adult help. These examples illustrate the nature of the developmental ability. We do not require documentation of all of the examples. How you manifest this developmental ability and your limitations in using it depends, in part, on your age.
(iv)
Ability to regulate physiological functions, attention, emotion, and behavior.
This criterion refers to the developmental ability to stabilize biological rhythms (for example, by developing an age-appropriate sleep/wake cycle); control physiological functions (for example, by achieving regular patterns of feeding); and attend, react, and adapt to environmental stimuli, persons, objects, and events (for example, by becoming alert to things happening around you and in relation to you, and responding without overreacting or underreacting). Using this ability develops the skills you need to regulate yourself and makes it possible for you to achieve and maintain a calm, alert, and organized physical and emotional state. You use this ability when, for example, you recognize your body's needs for food or sleep, focus quickly and pay attention to things that interest you, cry when you are hurt but become quiet when your caregiver holds you, comfort yourself with your favorite toy when you are upset, ask for help when something frustrates you, or refuse help from your caregiver when trying to do something for yourself. These examples illustrate the nature of the developmental ability. We do not require documentation of all of the examples. How you manifest this developmental ability and your limitations in using it depends, in part, on your age.
5.
Deferral of determination.
a.
Full-term infants.
In the first few months of life, full-term infants typically display some irregularities in observable behaviors (for example, sleep cycles, feeding, responding to stimuli, attending to faces, self-calming), making it difficult to assess the presence, extent, and duration of a developmental disorder. When the evidence indicates that you may have a significant developmental delay, but there is insufficient evidence to make a determination, we will defer making a disability determination under 112.14 until you are at least 6 months old. This deferral will allow us to obtain a longitudinal medical history so that we can more accurately evaluate your developmental patterns and functioning over time. In most cases, when you are at least 6 months old, any developmental delay you may have can be better assessed, and you can undergo standardized developmental testing, if indicated.
b.
Premature infants.
When the evidence indicates that you may have a significant developmental delay, but there is insufficient evidence to make a determination, we will defer your case until you attain a CCA (see 112.00I2a) of at least 6 months in order to better evaluate your developmental delay.
c.
When we will not defer a determination.
We will not defer our determination if we have sufficient evidence to determine that you are disabled under 112.14 or any other listing, or that you have an impairment or combination of impairments that functionally equals the listings. In addition, we will not defer our determination if the evidence demonstrates that you are not disabled.
J.
How do we evaluate substance use disorders?
If we find that you are disabled and there is medical evidence in your case record establishing that you have a substance use disorder, we will determine whether your substance use disorder is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (see § 416.935 of this chapter).
K.
How do we evaluate mental disorders that do not meet one of the mental disorders listings?
1. These listings include only examples of mental disorders that we consider serious enough to result in marked and severe functional limitations. If your severe mental disorder does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we will consider whether you have an impairment(s) that meets the criteria of a listing in another body system. You may have another impairment(s) that is secondary to your mental disorder. For example, if you have an eating disorder and develop a cardiovascular impairment because of it, we will evaluate your cardiovascular impairment under the listings for the cardiovascular body system.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing (see § 416.926 of this chapter).
3. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, we will consider whether you have an impairment(s) that functionally equals the listings (see § 416.926a of this chapter).
4. Although we present these alternatives in a specific sequence above, each represents listing-level severity, and we can evaluate your claim in any order. For example, if the factors of your case indicate that the combination of your impairments may functionally equal the listings, we may start with that analysis. We use the rules in § 416.994a of this chapter, as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 112.01 Category of Impairments, Mental Disorders
112.02
Neurocognitive disorders
(see 112.00B1), for children age 3 to attainment of age 18, satisfied by A and B, or A and C:
A. Medical documentation of a clinically significant deviation in normal cognitive development or by significant cognitive decline from a prior level of functioning in
one
or more of the cognitive areas:
1. Complex attention;
2. Executive function;
3. Learning and memory;
4. Language;
5. Perceptual-motor; or
6. Social cognition.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 112.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 112.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 112.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 112.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 112.00E4).

# OR
C. Your mental disorder in this listing category is “serious and persistent;” that is, you have a medically documented history of the existence of the disorder over a period of at least 2 years, and there is evidence of both:
1. Medical treatment, mental health therapy, psychosocial support(s), or a highly structured setting(s) that is ongoing and that diminishes the symptoms and signs of your mental disorder (see 112.00G2b);
and
2. Marginal adjustment, that is, you have minimal capacity to adapt to changes in your environment or to demands that are not already part of your daily life (see 112.00G2c).
112.03
Schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic disorders
(see 112.00B2), for children age 3 to attainment of age 18, satisfied by A and B, or A and C:
A. Medical documentation of
one
or more of the following:
1. Delusions or hallucinations;
2. Disorganized thinking (speech); or
3. Grossly disorganized behavior or catatonia.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 112.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 112.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 112.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 112.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 112.00E4).

# OR
C. Your mental disorder in this listing category is “serious and persistent;” that is, you have a medically documented history of the existence of the disorder over a period of at least 2 years, and there is evidence of both:
1. Medical treatment, mental health therapy, psychosocial support(s), or a highly structured setting(s) that is ongoing and that diminishes the symptoms and signs of your mental disorder (see 112.00G2b);
and
2. Marginal adjustment, that is, you have minimal capacity to adapt to changes in your environment or to demands that are not already part of your daily life (see 112.00G2c).
112.04
Depressive, bipolar and related disorders
(see 112.00B3), for children age 3 to attainment of age 18, satisfied by A and B, or A and C:
A. Medical documentation of the requirements of paragraph 1, 2, or 3:
1. Depressive disorder, characterized by
five
or more of the following:
a. Depressed or irritable mood;
b. Diminished interest in almost all activities;
c. Appetite disturbance with change in weight (or a failure to achieve an expected weight gain);
d. Sleep disturbance;
e. Observable psychomotor agitation or retardation;
f. Decreased energy;
g. Feelings of guilt or worthlessness;
h. Difficulty concentrating or thinking; or
i. Thoughts of death or suicide.
2. Bipolar disorder, characterized by
three
or more of the following:
a. Pressured speech;
b. Flight of ideas;
c. Inflated self-esteem;
d. Decreased need for sleep;
e. Distractibility;
f. Involvement in activities that have a high probability of painful consequences that are not recognized; or
g. Increase in goal-directed activity or psychomotor agitation.
3. Disruptive mood dysregulation disorder, beginning prior to age 10, and
all
of the following:
a. Persistent, significant irritability or anger;
b. Frequent, developmentally inconsistent temper outbursts; and
c. Frequent aggressive or destructive behavior.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 112.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 112.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 112.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 112.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 112.00E4).

# OR
C. Your mental disorder in this listing category is “serious and persistent;” that is, you have a medically documented history of the existence of the disorder over a period of at least 2 years, and there is evidence of both:
1. Medical treatment, mental health therapy, psychosocial support(s), or a highly structured setting(s) that is ongoing and that diminishes the symptoms and signs of your mental disorder (see 112.00G2b);
and
2. Marginal adjustment, that is, you have minimal capacity to adapt to changes in your environment or to demands that are not already part of your daily life (see 112.00G2c).
112.05
Intellectual disorder
(see 112.00B4), for children age 3 to attainment of age 18, satisfied by A or B:
A. Satisfied by 1 and 2 (see 112.00H):
1. Significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning evident in your cognitive inability to function at a level required to participate in standardized testing of intellectual functioning; and
2. Significant deficits in adaptive functioning currently manifested by your dependence upon others for personal needs (for example, toileting, eating, dressing, or bathing) in excess of age-appropriate dependence.

# OR
B. Satisfied by 1 and 2 (see 112.00H):
1. Significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning evidenced by a or b:
a. A full scale (or comparable) IQ score of 70 or below on an individually administered standardized test of general intelligence; or
b. A full scale (or comparable) IQ score of 71-75 accompanied by a verbal or performance IQ score (or comparable part score) of 70 or below on an individually administered standardized test of general intelligence; and
2. Significant deficits in adaptive functioning currently manifested by extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning:
a. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 112.00E1); or
b. Interact with others (see 112.00E2); or
c. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 112.00E3); or
d. Adapt or manage oneself (see 112.00E4).
112.06
Anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorders
(see 112.00B5), for children age 3 to attainment of age 18, satisfied by A and B, or A and C:
A. Medical documentation of the requirements of paragraph 1, 2, 3, or 4:
1. Anxiety disorder, characterized by
one
or more of the following:
a. Restlessness;
b. Easily fatigued;
c. Difficulty concentrating;
d. Irritability;
e. Muscle tension; or
f. Sleep disturbance.
2. Panic disorder or agoraphobia, characterized by
one
or both:
a. Panic attacks followed by a persistent concern or worry about additional panic attacks or their consequences; or
b. Disproportionate fear or anxiety about at least two different situations (for example, using public transportation, being in a crowd, being in a line, being outside of your home, being in open spaces).
3. Obsessive-compulsive disorder, characterized by
one
or both:
a. Involuntary, time-consuming preoccupation with intrusive, unwanted thoughts; or;
b. Repetitive behaviors that appear aimed at reducing anxiety.
4. Excessive fear or anxiety concerning separation from those to whom you are attached.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 112.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 112.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 112.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 112.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 112.00E4).

# OR
C. Your mental disorder in this listing category is “serious and persistent;” that is, you have a medically documented history of the existence of the disorder over a period of at least 2 years, and there is evidence of both:
1. Medical treatment, mental health therapy, psychosocial support(s), or a highly structured setting(s) that is ongoing and that diminishes the symptoms and signs of your mental disorder (see 112.00G2b);
and
2. Marginal adjustment, that is, you have minimal capacity to adapt to changes in your environment or to demands that are not already part of your daily life (see 112.00G2c).
112.07
Somatic symptom and related disorders
(see 112.00B6), for children age 3 to attainment of age 18, satisfied by A and B:
A. Medical documentation of
one
or both of the following:
1. Symptoms of altered voluntary motor or sensory function that are not better explained by another medical or mental disorder; or
2. One or more somatic symptoms that are distressing, with excessive thoughts, feelings, or behaviors related to the symptoms.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 112.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 112.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 112.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 112.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 112.00E4).
112.08
Personality and impulse-control disorders
(see 112.00B7), for children age 3 to attainment of age 18, satisfied by A and B:
A. Medical documentation of a pervasive pattern of
one
or more of the following:
1. Distrust and suspiciousness of others;
2. Detachment from social relationships;
3. Disregard for and violation of the rights of others;
4. Instability of interpersonal relationships;
5. Excessive emotionality and attention seeking;
6. Feelings of inadequacy;
7. Excessive need to be taken care of;
8. Preoccupation with perfectionism and orderliness; or
9. Recurrent, impulsive, aggressive behavioral outbursts.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 112.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 112.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 112.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 112.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 112.00E4).
112.09 [Reserved]
112.10
Autism spectrum disorder
(see 112.00B8), for children age 3 to attainment of age 18), satisfied by A and B:
A. Medical documentation of
both
of the following:
1. Qualitative deficits in verbal communication, nonverbal communication, and social interaction; and
2. Significantly restricted, repetitive patterns of behavior, interests, or activities.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 112.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 112.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 112.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 112.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 112.00E4).
112.11
Neurodevelopmental disorders
(see 112.00B9), for children age 3 to attainment of age 18, satisfied by A and B:
A. Medical documentation of the requirements of paragraph 1, 2, or 3:
1.
One
or both of the following:
a. Frequent distractibility, difficulty sustaining attention, and difficulty organizing tasks; or
b. Hyperactive and impulsive behavior (for example, difficulty remaining seated, talking excessively, difficulty waiting, appearing restless, or behaving as if being “driven by a motor”).
2. Significant difficulties learning and using academic skills; or
3. Recurrent motor movement or vocalization.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 112.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 112.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 112.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 112.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 112.00E4).
112.12 [Reserved]
112.13
Eating disorders
(see 112.00B10), for children age 3 to attainment of age 18, satisfied by A and B:
A. Medical documentation of a persistent alteration in eating or eating-related behavior that results in a change in consumption or absorption of food and that significantly impairs physical or psychological health.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 112.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 112.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 112.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 112.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 112.00E4).
112.14
Developmental disorders in infants and toddlers
(see 112.00B11, 112.00I), satisfied by A and B:
A. Medical documentation of
one
or both of the following:
1. A delay or deficit in the development of age-appropriate skills; or
2. A loss of previously acquired skills.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following developmental abilities (see 112.00F):
1. Plan and control motor movement (see 112.00I4b(i)).
2. Learn and remember (see 112.00I4b(ii)).
3. Interact with others (see 112.00I4b(iii)).
4. Regulate physiological functions, attention, emotion, and behavior (see 112.00I4b(iv)).
112.15
Trauma- and stressor-related disorders
(see 112.00B11), for children age 3 to attainment of age 18, satisfied by A and B, or A and C:
A. Medical documentation of the requirements of paragraph 1 or 2:
1. Posttraumatic stress disorder, characterized by
all
of the following:
a. Exposure to actual or threatened death, serious injury, or violence;
b. Subsequent involuntary re-experiencing of the traumatic event (for example, intrusive memories, dreams, or flashbacks);
c. Avoidance of external reminders of the event;
d. Disturbance in mood and behavior (for example, developmental regression, socially withdrawn behavior); and
e. Increases in arousal and reactivity (for example, exaggerated startle response, sleep disturbance).
2. Reactive attachment disorder, characterized by
two
or all of the following:
a. Rarely seeks comfort when distressed;
b. Rarely responds to comfort when distressed; or
c. Episodes of unexplained emotional distress.

# AND
B. Extreme limitation of one, or marked limitation of two, of the following areas of mental functioning (see 112.00F):
1. Understand, remember, or apply information (see 112.00E1).
2. Interact with others (see 112.00E2).
3. Concentrate, persist, or maintain pace (see 112.00E3).
4. Adapt or manage oneself (see 112.00E4).

# OR
C. Your mental disorder in this listing category is “serious and persistent;” that is, you have a medically documented history of the existence of the disorder over a period of at least 2 years, and there is evidence of both:
1. Medical treatment, mental health therapy, psychosocial support(s), or a highly structured setting(s) that is ongoing and that diminishes the symptoms and signs of your mental disorder (see 112.00G2b);
and
2. Marginal adjustment, that is, you have minimal capacity to adapt to changes in your environment or to demands that are not already part of your daily life (see 112.00G2c).

# 113.00 Cancer (Malignant Neoplastic Diseases)
A.
What impairments do these listings cover?
We use these listings to evaluate all cancers (malignant neoplastic diseases) except certain cancers associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. We use the criteria in 114.11B to evaluate primary central nervous system lymphoma, 114.11C to evaluate primary effusion lymphoma, and 114.11E to evaluate pulmonary Kaposi sarcoma if you also have HIV infection. We evaluate all other cancers associated with HIV infection, for example, Hodgkin lymphoma or non-pulmonary Kaposi sarcoma, under this body system or under 114.11F-I in the immune system disorders body system.
B.
What do we consider when we evaluate cancer under these listings?
We will consider factors including:
1. Origin of the cancer.
2. Extent of involvement.
3. Duration, frequency, and response to anticancer therapy.
4. Effects of any post-therapeutic residuals.
C.
How do we apply these listings?
We apply the criteria in a specific listing to a cancer originating from that specific site.
D.
What evidence do we need?
1. We need medical evidence that specifies the type, extent, and site of the primary, recurrent, or metastatic lesion. When the primary site cannot be identified, we will use evidence documenting the site(s) of metastasis to evaluate the impairment under 13.27 in part A.
2. For operative procedures, including a biopsy or a needle aspiration, we generally need a copy of both the:
a. Operative note, and
b. Pathology report.
3. When we cannot get these documents, we will accept the summary of hospitalization(s) or other medical reports. This evidence should include details of the findings at surgery and, whenever appropriate, the pathological findings.
4. In some situations, we may also need evidence about recurrence, persistence, or progression of the cancer, the response to therapy, and any significant residuals. (See 113.00G.)
E.
When do we need longitudinal evidence?
1.
Cancer with distant metastases.
Most cancer of childhood consists of a local lesion with metastases to regional lymph nodes and, less often, distant metastases. We generally do not need longitudinal evidence for cancer that has metastasized beyond the regional lymph nodes because this cancer usually meets the requirements of a listing. Exceptions are for cancer with distant metastases that we expect to respond to anticancer therapy. For these exceptions, we usually need a longitudinal record of 3 months after therapy starts to determine whether the therapy achieved its intended effect, and whether this effect is likely to persist.
2.
Other cancers.
When there are no distant metastases, many of the listings require that
we consider your response to initial anticancer therapy; that is, the initial planned treatment regimen. This therapy may consist of a single modality or a combination of modalities; that is, multimodal therapy (see 113.00I3).
3.
Types of treatment.
a. Whenever the initial planned therapy is a single modality, enough time must pass to allow a determination about whether the therapy will achieve its intended effect. If the treatment fails, the failure often happens within 6 months after treatment starts, and there will often be a change in the treatment regimen.
b. Whenever the initial planned therapy is multimodal, we usually cannot make a determination about the effectiveness of the therapy until we can determine the effects of all the planned modalities. In some cases, we may need to defer adjudication until we can assess the effectiveness of therapy. However, we do not need to defer adjudication to determine whether the therapy will achieve its intended effect if we can make a fully favorable determination or decision based on the length and effects of therapy, or the residuals of the cancer or therapy (see 113.00G).
F.
How do we evaluate impairments that do not meet one of the cancer listings?
1. These listings are only examples of cancers that we consider severe enough to result in marked and severe functional limitations. If your severe impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that meets the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. (See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter.) If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, we will also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that functionally equals the listings. (See § 416.926a of this chapter.) We use the rules in § 416.994a of this chapter when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.
G.
How do we consider the effects of anticancer therapy?
1.
How we consider the effects of anticancer therapy under the listings.
In many cases, cancers meet listing criteria only if the therapy is not effective and the cancer persists, progresses, or recurs. However, as explained in the following paragraphs, we will not delay adjudication if we can make a fully favorable determination or decision based on the evidence in the case record.
2.
Effects can vary widely.
a. We consider each case on an individual basis because the therapy and its toxicity may vary widely. We will request a specific description of the therapy, including these items:
i. Drugs given.
ii. Dosage.
iii. Frequency of drug administration.
iv. Plans for continued drug administration.
v. Extent of surgery.
vi. Schedule and fields of radiation therapy.
b. We will also request a description of the complications or adverse effects of therapy, such as the following:
i. Continuing gastrointestinal symptoms.
ii. Persistent weakness.
iii. Neurological complications.
iv. Cardiovascular complications.
v. Reactive mental disorders.
3.
Effects of therapy may change.
The severity of the adverse effects of anticancer therapy may change during treatment; therefore, enough time must pass to allow us to evaluate the therapy's effect. The residual effects of treatment are temporary in most instances; however, on occasion, the effects may be disabling for a consecutive period of at least 12 months. In some situations, very serious adverse effects may interrupt and prolong multimodal anticancer therapy for a continuous period of almost 12 months. In these situations, we may determine there is an expectation that your impairment will preclude you from engaging in any age-appropriate activities for at least 12 months.
4.
When the initial anticancer therapy is effective.
We evaluate any post-therapeutic residual impairment(s) not included in these listings under the criteria for the affected body system. We must consider any complications of therapy. When the residual impairment(s) does not meet a listing, we must consider whether it medically equals a listing, or, as appropriate, functionally equals the listings.
H.
How long do we consider your impairment to be disabling?
1. In some listings, we specify that we will consider your impairment to be disabling until a particular point in time (for example, until at least 12 months from the date of transplantation). We may consider your impairment to be disabling beyond this point when the medical and other evidence justifies it.
2. When a listing does not contain such a specification, we will consider an impairment(s) that meets or medically equals a listing in this body system to be disabling until at least 3 years after onset of complete remission. When the impairment(s) has been in complete remission for at least 3 years, that is, the original tumor or a recurrence (or relapse) and any metastases have not been evident for at least 3 years, the impairment(s) will no longer meet or medically equal the criteria of a listing in this body system.
3. Following the appropriate period, we will consider any residuals, including residuals of the cancer or therapy (see 113.00G), in determining whether you are disabled. If you have a recurrence or relapse of your cancer, your impairment may meet or medically equal one of the listings in this body system again.
I.
What do we mean by the following terms?
1.
Anticancer therapy
means surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, hormones, immunotherapy, or bone marrow or stem cell transplantation. When we refer to surgery as an anticancer treatment, we mean surgical excision for treatment, not for diagnostic purposes.
2.
Metastases
means the spread of cancer cells by blood, lymph, or other body fluid. This term does not include the spread of cancer cells by direct extension of the cancer to other tissues or organs.
3.
Multimodal therapy
means anticancer therapy that is a combination of at least two types of treatment given in close proximity as a unified whole and usually planned before any treatment has begun. There are three types of treatment modalities: Surgery, radiation, and systemic drug therapy (chemotherapy, hormone therapy, and immunotherapy or biological modifier therapy). Examples of multimodal therapy include:
a. Surgery followed by chemotherapy or radiation.
b. Chemotherapy followed by surgery.
c. Chemotherapy and concurrent radiation.
4.
Persistent
means the planned initial anticancer therapy failed to achieve a complete remission of your cancer; that is, your cancer is evident, even if smaller, after the therapy has ended.
5.
Progressive
means the cancer becomes more extensive after treatment; that is, there is evidence that your cancer is growing after you have completed at least half of your planned initial anticancer therapy.
6.
Recurrent or relapse
means the cancer that was in complete remission or entirely removed by surgery has returned.
J.
Can we establish the existence of a disabling impairment prior to the date of the evidence that shows the cancer satisfies the criteria of a listing?
Yes. We will consider factors such as:
1. The type of cancer and its location.
2. The extent of involvement when the cancer was first demonstrated.
3. Your symptoms.
K.
How do we evaluate specific cancers?
1.
Lymphoma.
a. We provide criteria for evaluating lymphomas that are disseminated or have not responded to anticancer therapy in 113.05.
b. Lymphoblastic lymphoma is treated with leukemia-based protocols, so we evaluate this type of cancer under 113.06.
2.
Leukemia.
a.
Acute leukemia.
The initial diagnosis of acute leukemia, including the accelerated or blast phase of chronic myelogenous (granulocytic) leukemia, is based on definitive bone marrow examination. Additional diagnostic information is based on chromosomal analysis, cytochemical and surface marker studies on the abnormal cells, or other methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice. Recurrent disease must be documented by peripheral blood, bone marrow, or cerebrospinal fluid examination, or by testicular biopsy. The initial and follow-up pathology reports should be included.
b.
Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML).
We need a diagnosis of CML based on documented granulocytosis, including immature forms such as differentiated or undifferentiated myelocytes and myeloblasts, and a chromosomal analysis that demonstrates the Philadelphia chromosome. In the absence of a chromosomal analysis, or if the Philadelphia chromosome is not present, the diagnosis may be made by other methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice. The requirement for CML in the accelerated or blast phase is met in 113.06B if laboratory findings show the proportion of blast (immature) cells in the peripheral blood or bone marrow is 10 percent or greater.
c.
Juvenile chronic myelogenous leukemia (JCML).
JCML is a rare, Philadelphia-chromosome-negative childhood leukemia that is aggressive and clinically similar to acute myelogenous leukemia. We evaluate JCML under 113.06A.
d.
Elevated white cell count.
In cases of chronic leukemia (either myelogenous or lymphocytic), an elevated white cell count, in itself, is not a factor in determining the severity of the impairment.
3.
Malignant solid tumors.
The tumors we consider under 113.03 include the histiocytosis syndromes except for solitary eosinophilic granuloma. We do not evaluate thyroid cancer (see 113.09), retinoblastomas (see 113.12), primary central nervous system (CNS) cancers (see 113.13), neuroblastomas (see 113.21), or malignant melanoma (see 113.29) under this listing.
4.
Primary central nervous system (CNS) cancers.
We use the criteria in 113.13 to evaluate cancers that originate within the CNS (that is, brain and spinal cord cancers).
a. The CNS cancers listed in 113.13A are highly malignant and respond poorly to treatment, and therefore we do not require additional criteria to evaluate them. We do not list pituitary gland cancer (for example, pituitary gland carcinoma) in 113.13A, although this CNS cancer is highly malignant and responds poorly to treatment. We evaluate pituitary gland cancer under 113.13A and
do not require additional criteria to evaluate it.
b. We consider a CNS tumor to be malignant if it is classified as Grade II, Grade III, or Grade IV under the World Health Organization (WHO) classification of tumors of the CNS (
WHO Classification of Tumours of the Central Nervous System,
2007).
c. We evaluate benign (for example, WHO Grade I) CNS tumors under 111.05. We evaluate metastasized CNS cancers from non-CNS sites under the primary cancers (see 113.00C). We evaluate any complications of CNS cancers, such as resultant neurological or psychological impairments, under the criteria for the affected body system.
5.
Retinoblastoma.
The treatment for bilateral retinoblastoma usually results in a visual impairment. We will evaluate any resulting visual impairment under 102.02.
6.
Melanoma.
We evaluate malignant melanoma that affects the skin (cutaneous melanoma), eye (ocular melanoma), or mucosal membranes (mucosal melanoma) under 113.29. We evaluate melanoma that is not malignant that affects the skin (benign melanocytic tumor) under the listings in 108.00 or other affected body systems.
L.
How do we evaluate cancer treated by bone marrow or stem cell transplantation, including transplantation using stem cells from umbilical cord blood?
Bone marrow or stem cell transplantation is performed for a variety of cancers. We require the transplantation to occur before we evaluate it under these listings. We do not need to restrict our determination of the onset of disability to the date of transplantation (113.05 or 113.06). We may be able to establish an earlier onset date of disability due to your transplantation if the evidence in your case record supports such a finding.
1.
Acute leukemia (including all types of lymphoblastic lymphomas and JCML) or accelerated or blast phase of CML.
If you undergo bone marrow or stem cell transplantation for any of these disorders, we will consider you to be disabled until at least 24 months from the date of diagnosis or relapse, or at least 12 months from the date of transplantation, whichever is later.
2.
Lymphoma or chronic phase of CML.
If you undergo bone marrow or stem cell transplantation for any of these disorders, we will consider you to be disabled until at least 12 months from the date of transplantation.
3.
Evaluating disability after the appropriate time period has elapsed.
We consider any residual impairment(s), such as complications arising from:
a. Graft-versus-host (GVH) disease.
b. Immunosuppressant therapy, such as frequent infections.
c. Significant deterioration of other organ systems.
113.01 Category of Impairments, Cancer (Malignant Neoplastic Diseases)

# 113.01 Category of Impairments, Malignant Neoplastic Diseases
113.03
Malignant solid tumors.
Consider under a disability:
A. For 24 months from the date of initial diagnosis. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
OR
B. For 24 months from the date of recurrence of active disease. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
113.05
Lymphoma (excluding all types of lymphoblastic lymphomas—113.06).
(See 113.00K1.)
A. Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (including Burkitt's and anaplastic large cell), with either 1 or 2:
1. Bone marrow, brain, spinal cord, liver, or lung involvement at initial diagnosis. Consider under a disability for 24 months from the date of diagnosis. Thereafter, evaluate under 113.05A2, or any residual impairments(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
2. Persistent or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
OR
B. Hodgkin lymphoma, with either 1 or 2:
1. Bone marrow, brain, spinal cord, liver, or lung involvement at initial diagnosis. Consider under a disability for 24 months from the date of diagnosis. Thereafter, evaluate under 113.05B2, or any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
2. Persistent or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
OR
C. With bone marrow or stem cell transplantation. Consider under a disability until at least 12 months from the date of transplantation. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria of the affected body system.
OR
D. Mantle cell lymphoma.
113.06
Leukemia.
(See 113.00K2.)
A. Acute leukemia (including all types of lymphoblastic lymphomas and juvenile chronic myelogenous leukemia (JCML)). Consider under a disability until at least 24 months from the date of diagnosis or relapse, or at least 12 months from the date of bone marrow or stem cell transplantation, whichever is later. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
OR
B. Chronic myelogenous leukemia (except JCML), as described in 1 or 2:
1. Accelerated or blast phase (see 113.00K2b). Consider under a disability until at least 24 months from the date of diagnosis or relapse, or at least 12 months from the
date of bone marrow or stem cell transplantation, whichever is later. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
2. Chronic phase, as described in a or b:
a. Consider under a disability until at least 12 months from the date of bone marrow or stem cell transplantation. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
b. Progressive disease following initial antineoplastic therapy.
113.09
Thyroid gland.
A. Anaplastic (undifferentiated) carcinoma.
OR
B. Carcinoma with metastases beyond the regional lymph nodes progressive despite radioactive iodine therapy.
OR
C. Medullary carcinoma with metastases beyond the regional lymph nodes.
113.12
Retinoblastoma.
A. With extension beyond the orbit.
OR
B. Persistent or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
OR
C. With regional or distant metastases.
113.13
Nervous system.
(See 113.00K4.) Primary central nervous system (CNS; that is, brain and spinal cord) cancers, as described in A, B, or C:
A. Glioblastoma multiforme, ependymoblastoma, and diffuse intrinsic brain stem gliomas (see 113.00K4a).
B. Any Grade III or Grade IV CNS cancer (see 113.00K4b), including astrocytomas, sarcomas, and medulloblastoma and other primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs).
C. Any primary CNS cancer, as described in 1 or 2:
1. Metastatic.
2. Progressive or recurrent following initial anticancer therapy.
113.21
Neuroblastoma.
A. With extension across the midline.
OR
B. With distant metastases.
OR
C. Recurrent.
OR
D. With onset at age 1 year or older.
113.29
Malignant melanoma
(including skin, ocular, or mucosal melanomas), as described in either A, B, or C:
A. Recurrent (except an additional primary melanoma at a different site, which is not considered to be recurrent disease) following either 1 or 2:
1. Wide excision (skin melanoma).
2. Enucleation of the eye (ocular melanoma).
OR
B. With metastases as described in 1, 2, or 3:
1. Metastases to one or more clinically apparent nodes; that is, nodes that are detected by imaging studies (excluding lymphoscintigraphy) or by clinical evaluation (palpable).
2. If the nodes are not clinically apparent, with metastases to four or more nodes.
3. Metastases to adjacent skin (satellite lesions) or distant sites (for example, liver, lung, or brain).
OR
C. Mucosal melanoma.

# 114.00 Immune System Disorders

# A. What disorders do we evaluate under the immune system disorders listings?
1.
We evaluate immune system disorders that cause dysfunction in one or more components of your immune system.
a. The dysfunction may be due to problems in antibody production, impaired cell-mediated immunity, a combined type of antibody/cellular deficiency, impaired phagocytosis, or complement deficiency.
b. Immune system disorders may result in recurrent and unusual infections, or inflammation and dysfunction of the body's own tissues. Immune system disorders can cause a deficit in a single organ or body system that results in extreme (that is, very serious) loss of function. They can also cause lesser degrees of limitations in two or more organs or body systems, and when associated with symptoms or signs, such as severe fatigue, fever, malaise, diffuse musculoskeletal pain, or involuntary weight loss, can also result in extreme limitation. In children, immune system disorders or their treatment may also affect growth, development, and the performance of age-appropriate activities.
c. We organize the discussions of immune system disorders in three categories: Autoimmune disorders; Immune deficiency disorders, excluding human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; and HIV infection.
2.
Autoimmune disorders (114.00D).
Autoimmune disorders are caused by dysfunctional immune responses directed against the body's own tissues, resulting in chronic, multisystem impairments that differ in clinical manifestations, course, and outcome. They are sometimes referred to as rheumatic diseases, connective tissue disorders, or collagen vascular disorders. Some of the features of autoimmune disorders in children differ from the features of the same disorders in adults. The impact of the disorders or their treatment on physical, psychological, and developmental growth of pre-pubertal children may be considerable, and often differs from that of post-pubertal adolescents or adults.
3.
Immune deficiency disorders, excluding HIV infection (114.00E).
Immune deficiency disorders are characterized by recurrent or unusual infections that respond poorly to treatment, and are often associated with complications affecting other parts of the body. Immune deficiency disorders are classified as either
primary
(congenital) or
acquired.
Children with immune deficiency disorders also have an increased risk of malignancies and of having autoimmune disorders.
4.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection (114.00F).
HIV infection may be characterized by increased susceptibility to common infections as well as opportunistic infections, cancers, or other conditions listed in 114.11.

# B. What information do we need to show that you have an immune system disorder?
Generally, we need your medical history, a report(s) of a physical examination, a report(s) of laboratory findings, and in some instances, appropriate medically acceptable imaging or tissue biopsy reports to show that you have an immune system disorder. Therefore, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain your medical history, medical findings, and results of laboratory tests. We explain the information we need in more detail in the sections below.

# C. Definitions
1.
Appropriate medically acceptable imaging
includes, but is not limited to, angiography, x-ray imaging, computerized axial tomography (CAT scan) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), with or without contrast material, myelography, and radionuclear bone scans. “Appropriate” means that the technique used is the proper one to support the evaluation and diagnosis of the impairment.
2.
Constitutional symptoms or signs,
as used in these listings, means severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss.
Severe fatigue
means a frequent sense of exhaustion that results in significantly reduced physical activity or mental function.
Malaise
means frequent feelings of illness, bodily discomfort, or lack of well-being that result in significantly reduced physical activity or mental function.
3.
Disseminated
means that a condition is spread over a considerable area. The type and extent of the spread will depend on your specific disease.
4.
Dysfunction
means that one or more of the body regulatory mechanisms are impaired, causing either an excess or deficiency of immunocompetent cells or their products.
5.
Extra-articular
means “other than the joints”; for example, an organ(s) such as the heart, lungs, kidneys, or skin.
6.
Documented medical need
has the same meaning as in 101.00C6a.
7.
Fine and gross movements
has the same meaning as in 101.00E4.
8.
Major joint of an upper or a lower extremity
has the same meaning as in 101.00I2 and 101.00I3.
9.
Persistent
means that a sign(s) or symptom(s) has continued over time. The precise meaning will depend on the specific immune system disorder, the usual course of the disorder, and the other circumstances of your clinical course.
10.
Recurrent
means that a condition that previously responded adequately to an appropriate course of treatment returns after a period of remission or regression. The precise meaning, such as the extent of response or remission and the time periods involved, will depend on the specific disease or condition you have, the body system affected, the usual course of the disorder and its treatment, and the other facts of your particular case.
11.
Resistant to treatment
means that a condition did not respond adequately to an appropriate course of treatment. Whether a response is adequate or a course of treatment is appropriate will depend on the specific disease or condition you have, the body system affected, the usual course of the disorder and its treatment, and the other facts of your particular case.
12.
Severe
means medical severity as used by the medical community. The term does not have the same meaning as it does when we use it in connection with a finding at the second step of the sequential evaluation process in § 416.920 of this chapter.

# D. How do we document and evaluate the listed autoimmune disorders?
1.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (114.02).
a.
General.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic inflammatory disease that can affect any organ or body system. It is frequently, but not always, accompanied by constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, involuntary weight loss). Major organ or body system involvement can include: Respiratory (pleuritis, pneumonitis), cardiovascular (endocarditis, myocarditis, pericarditis, vasculitis), renal (glomerulonephritis), hematologic (anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia), skin (photosensitivity), neurologic (seizures), mental (anxiety, fluctuating cognition (“lupus fog”), mood disorders, organic brain syndrome, psychosis), or immune system disorders (inflammatory arthritis). Immunologically, there is an array of circulating serum auto-antibodies and pro- and anti-coagulant proteins that may occur in a highly variable pattern.
b.
Documentation of SLE.
Generally, but not always, the medical evidence will show that your SLE satisfies the criteria in the current “Criteria for the Classification of Systemic
Lupus Erythematosus” by the American College of Rheumatology found in the most recent edition of the
Primer on the Rheumatic Diseases
published by the Arthritis Foundation.
2.
Systemic vasculitis (114.03).
a.
General.
(i) Vasculitis is an inflammation of blood vessels. It may occur acutely in association with adverse drug reactions, certain chronic infections, and occasionally, malignancies. More often, it is chronic and the cause is unknown. Symptoms vary depending on which blood vessels are involved. Systemic vasculitis may also be associated with other autoimmune disorders; for example, SLE or dermatomyositis.
(ii) Children can develop the vasculitis of Kawasaki disease, of which the most serious manifestation is formation of coronary artery aneurysms and related complications. We evaluate heart problems related to Kawasaki disease under the criteria in the cardiovascular listings (104.00). Children can also develop the vasculitis of anaphylactoid purpura (Henoch-Schoenlein purpura), which may cause intestinal and renal disorders. We evaluate intestinal and renal disorders related to vasculitis of anaphylactoid purpura under the criteria in the digestive (105.00) or genitourinary (106.00) listings. Other clinical patterns include, but are not limited to, polyarteritis nodosa, Takayasu's arteritis (aortic arch arteritis), and Wegener's granulomatosis.
b.
Documentation of systemic vasculitis.
Angiography or tissue biopsy confirms a diagnosis of systemic vasculitis when the disease is suspected clinically. When you have had angiography or tissue biopsy for systemic vasculitis, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain reports of the results of that procedure. However, we will not purchase angiography or tissue biopsy.
3.
Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) (114.04).
a.
General.
Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) constitutes a spectrum of disease in which thickening of the skin is the clinical hallmark. Raynaud's phenomenon, often medically severe and progressive, is present frequently and may be the peripheral manifestation of a vasospastic abnormality in the heart, lungs, and kidneys. The CREST syndrome (calcinosis, Raynaud's phenomenon, esophageal dysmotility, sclerodactyly, and telangiectasia) is a variant that may slowly progress over years to the generalized process, systemic sclerosis.
b.
Diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis.
In diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis (also known as diffuse scleroderma), major organ or systemic involvement can include the gastrointestinal tract, lungs, heart, kidneys, and muscle in addition to skin or blood vessels. Although arthritis can occur, joint dysfunction results primarily from soft tissue/cutaneous thickening, fibrosis, and contractures.
c.
Localized scleroderma (linear scleroderma and morphea).
(i) Localized scleroderma (linear scleroderma and morphea) is more common in children than systemic scleroderma. To assess the severity of the impairment, we need a description of the extent of involvement of linear scleroderma and the location of the lesions. For example, linear scleroderma involving the arm but not crossing any joints is not as functionally limiting as sclerodactyly (scleroderma localized to the fingers). Linear scleroderma of a lower extremity involving skin thickening and atrophy of underlying muscle or bone can result in contractures and leg length discrepancy. In such cases, we may evaluate your impairment under the musculoskeletal listings (101.00).
(ii) When there is isolated morphea of the face causing facial disfigurement from unilateral hypoplasia of the mandible, maxilla, zygoma, or orbit, adjudication may be more appropriate under the criteria in the affected body system, such as special senses and speech (102.00) or mental disorders (112.00).
(iii) Chronic variants of these syndromes include disseminated morphea, Shulman's disease (diffuse fasciitis with eosinophilia), and eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (often associated with toxins such as toxic oil or contaminated tryptophan), all of which can impose medically severe musculoskeletal dysfunction and may also lead to restrictive pulmonary disease. We evaluate these variants of the disease under the criteria in the musculoskeletal listings (101.00) or respiratory system listings (103.00).
d.
Documentation of systemic sclerosis (scleroderma).
Documentation involves differentiating the clinical features of systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) from other autoimmune disorders. However, there may be an overlap.
4.
Polymyositis and dermatomyositis (114.05).
a.
General.
(i) Polymyositis and dermatomyositis are related disorders that are characterized by an inflammatory process in striated muscle, occurring alone or in association with other autoimmune disorders. The most common manifestations are symmetric weakness, and less frequently, pain and tenderness of the proximal limb-girdle (shoulder or pelvic) musculature. There may also be involvement of the cervical, cricopharyngeal, esophageal, intercostal, and diaphragmatic muscles.
(ii) Polymyositis occurs rarely in children; the more common presentation in children is dermatomyositis with symmetric proximal muscle weakness and characteristic skin findings. The clinical course of dermatomyositis can be more severe when it is accompanied by systemic vasculitis rather than just localized to striated muscle. Late
in the disease, some children with dermatomyositis develop calcinosis of the skin and subcutaneous tissues, muscles, and joints. We evaluate the involvement of other organs/body systems under the criteria for the listings in the affected body system.
b.
Documentation of polymyositis and dermatomyositis.
Generally, but not always, polymyositis is associated with elevated serum muscle enzymes (creatine phosphokinase (CPK), aminotransferases, and aldolase), and characteristic abnormalities on electromyography and muscle biopsy. In children, the diagnosis of dermatomyositis is supported largely by medical history, findings on physical examination that include the characteristic skin findings, and elevated serum muscle enzymes. Muscle inflammation or vasculitis depicted on MRI is additional evidence supporting the diagnosis of childhood dermatomyositis. When you have had electromyography, muscle biopsy, or MRI for polymyositis or dermatomyositis, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain reports of the results of that procedure. However, we will not purchase electromyography, muscle biopsy, or MRI.
c.
Additional information about how we evaluate polymyositis and dermatomyositis under the listings.
(i) In newborn and younger infants (birth to attainment of age 1), we consider muscle weakness that affects motor skills, such as head control, reaching, grasping, taking solids, or self-feeding, under 114.05A. In older infants and toddlers (age 1 to attainment of age 3), we also consider muscle weakness affecting your ability to roll over, sit, crawl, or walk under 114.05A.
(ii) If you are of preschool age through adolescence (age 3 to attainment of age 18), weakness of your pelvic girdle muscles that results in your inability to rise independently from a squatting or sitting position or to climb stairs may be an indication that you are unable to walk without assistance. Weakness of your shoulder girdle muscles may result in your inability to perform lifting, carrying, and reaching overhead, and also may seriously affect your ability to perform activities requiring fine movements. We evaluate these limitations under 114.05A.
5.
Undifferentiated and mixed connective tissue disease (114.06).
a.
General.
This listing includes syndromes with clinical and immunologic features of several autoimmune disorders, but which do not satisfy the criteria for any of the specific disorders described. For example, you may have clinical features of SLE and systemic vasculitis, and the serologic (blood test) findings of rheumatoid arthritis. The most common pattern of undifferentiated autoimmune disorders in children is mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD).
b.
Documentation of undifferentiated and mixed connective tissue disease.
Undifferentiated connective tissue disease is diagnosed when clinical features and serologic (blood test) findings, such as rheumatoid factor or antinuclear antibody (consistent with an autoimmune disorder) are present but do not satisfy the criteria for a specific disease. Children with MCTD have laboratory findings of extremely high antibody titers to extractable nuclear antigen (ENA) or ribonucleoprotein (RNP) without high titers of anti-dsDNA or anti-SM antibodies. There are often clinical findings suggestive of SLE or childhood dermatomyositis. Many children later develop features of scleroderma.
6.
Inflammatory arthritis (114.09).
a.
General.
The spectrum of inflammatory arthritis includes a vast array of disorders that differ in cause, course, and outcome. Clinically, inflammation of major joints in an upper or a lower extremity may be the dominant manifestation causing difficulties with walking or fine and gross movements; there may be joint pain, swelling, and tenderness. The arthritis may affect other joints, or cause less limitation in walking or fine and gross movements. However, in combination with extra-articular features, including constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, and involuntary weight loss), inflammatory arthritis may result in an extreme limitation.
b.
Inflammatory arthritis involving the axial spine (spondyloarthropathy).
In children, inflammatory arthritis involving the axial spine may be associated with disorders such as:
(i) Reactive arthropathies;
(ii) Juvenile ankylosing spondylitis;
(iii) Psoriatic arthritis;
(iv) SEA syndrome (seronegative enthesopathy arthropathy syndrome);
(v) Behçet's disease; and
(vi) Inflammatory bowel disease.
c.
Inflammatory arthritis involving the peripheral joints.
In children, inflammatory arthritis involving peripheral joints may be associated with disorders such as:
(i) Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis;
(ii) Sjöogren's syndrome;
(iii) Psoriatic arthritis;
(iv) Crystal deposition disorders (gout and pseudogout);
(v) Lyme disease; and
(vi) Inflammatory bowel disease.
d.
Documentation of inflammatory arthritis.
Generally, but not always, the diagnosis of inflammatory arthritis is based on the clinical features and serologic findings described in the most recent edition of the
Primer on the Rheumatic Diseases
published by the Arthritis Foundation.
e.
How we evaluate inflammatory arthritis under the listings.
(i) Listing-level severity in 114.09A and 114.09C1 is shown by the presence of an impairment-related physical limitation of functioning. In 114.09C1, if you have the required
ankylosis (fixation) of your cervical or dorsolumbar spine, we will find that you have a listing-level impairment-related physical limitation in your ability to see in front of you, above you, and to the side, even though you might not require bilateral upper limb assistance.
(ii) Listing-level severity in 114.09B and 114.09C2 is shown by inflammatory arthritis that involves various combinations of complications (such as inflammation or deformity, extra-articular features, repeated manifestations, and constitutional symptoms and signs) of one or more major joints in an upper or a lower extremity (see 114.00C8) or other joints. Extra-articular impairments may also meet listings in other body systems.
(iii) Extra-articular features of inflammatory arthritis may involve any body system; for example: Musculoskeletal (heel enthesopathy), ophthalmologic (iridocyclitis, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, uveitis), pulmonary (pleuritis, pulmonary fibrosis or nodules, restrictive lung disease), cardiovascular (aortic valve insufficiency, arrhythmias, coronary arteritis, myocarditis, pericarditis, Raynaud's phenomenon, systemic vasculitis), renal (amyloidosis of the kidney), hematologic (chronic anemia, thrombocytopenia), neurologic (peripheral neuropathy, radiculopathy, spinal cord or cauda equina compression with sensory and motor loss), mental (cognitive dysfunction, poor memory), and immune system (Felty's syndrome (hypersplenism with compromised immune competence)).
(iv) If both inflammation and chronic deformities are present, we evaluate your impairment under the criteria of any appropriate listing.
7.
Sjögren's syndrome (114.10).
a.
General.
(i) Sjögren's syndrome is an immune-mediated disorder of the exocrine glands. Involvement of the lacrimal and salivary glands is the hallmark feature, resulting in symptoms of dry eyes and dry mouth, and possible complications, such as corneal damage, blepharitis (eyelid inflammation), dysphagia (difficulty in swallowing), dental caries, and the inability to speak for extended periods of time. Involvement of the exocrine glands of the upper airways may result in persistent dry cough.
(ii) Many other organ systems may be involved, including musculoskeletal (arthritis, myositis), respiratory (interstitial fibrosis), gastrointestinal (dysmotility, dysphagia, involuntary weight loss), genitourinary (interstitial cystitis, renal tubular acidosis), skin (purpura, vasculitis,), neurologic (central nervous system disorders, cranial and peripheral neuropathies), mental (cognitive dysfunction, poor memory), and neoplastic (lymphoma). Severe fatigue and malaise are frequently reported. Sjögren's syndrome may be associated with other autoimmune disorders (for example, rheumatoid arthritis or SLE); usually the clinical features of the associated disorder predominate.
b.
Documentation of Sjögren's syndrome.
If you have Sjögren's syndrome, the medical evidence will generally, but not always, show that your disease satisfies the criteria in the current “Criteria for the Classification of Sjögren's Syndrome” by the American College of Rheumatology found in the most recent edition of the
Primer on the Rheumatic Diseases
published by the Arthritis Foundation.

# E. How do we document and evaluate immune deficiency disorders, excluding HIV infection?
1.
General.
a. Immune deficiency disorders can be classified as:
(i)
Primary
(congenital); for example, X-linked agammaglobulinemia, thymic hypoplasia (DiGeorge syndrome), severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency.
(ii)
Acquired;
for example, medication-related.
b. Primary immune deficiency disorders are seen mainly in children. However, recent advances in the treatment of these disorders have allowed many affected children to survive well into adulthood. Occasionally, these disorders are first diagnosed in adolescence or adulthood.
2.
Documentation of immune deficiency disorders.
The medical evidence must include documentation of the specific type of immune deficiency. Documentation may be by laboratory evidence or by other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice.
3.
Immune deficiency disorders treated by stem cell transplantation.
a.
Evaluation in the first 12 months.
If you undergo stem cell transplantation for your immune deficiency disorder, we will consider you disabled until at least 12 months from the date of the transplant.
b.
Evaluation after the 12-month period has elapsed.
After the 12-month period has elapsed, we will consider any residuals of your immune deficiency disorder as well as any residual impairment(s) resulting from the treatment, such as complications arising from:
(i) Graft-versus-host (GVH) disease.
(ii) Immunosuppressant therapy, such as frequent infections.
(iii) Significant deterioration of other organ systems.
4.
Medication-induced immune suppression.
Medication effects can result in varying degrees of immune suppression, but most resolve when the medication is ceased. However, if you are prescribed medication for
long-term immune suppression, such as after an organ transplant, we will evaluate:
a. The frequency and severity of infections.
b. Residuals from the organ transplant itself, after the 12-month period has elapsed.
c. Significant deterioration of other organ systems.
F.
How do we document and evaluate HIV infection?
Any child with HIV infection, including one with a diagnosis of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), may be found disabled under 114.11 if his or her impairment meets the criteria in that listing or is medically equivalent to the criteria in that listing.
1.
Documentation of HIV infection.
a.
Definitive documentation of HIV infection.
We may document a diagnosis of HIV infection by positive findings on one or more of the following definitive laboratory tests:
(i) HIV antibody screening test (for example, enzyme immunoassay, or EIA), confirmed by a supplemental HIV antibody test such as the Western blot (immunoblot) or immunofluorescence assay, for any child age 18 months or older.
(ii) HIV nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) detection test (for example, polymerase chain reaction, or PCR).
(iii) HIV p24 antigen (p24Ag) test, for any child age 1 month or older.
(iv) Isolation of HIV in viral culture.
(v) Other tests that are highly specific for detection of HIV and that are consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge.
b. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain the results of your laboratory testing. Pursuant to § 416.919f of this chapter, we will purchase examinations or tests necessary to make a determination in your claim if no other acceptable documentation exists.
c.
Other acceptable documentation of HIV infection.
We may also document HIV infection without definitive laboratory evidence.
(i) We will accept a persuasive report from a physician that a positive diagnosis of your HIV infection was confirmed by an appropriate laboratory test(s), such as those described in 114.00F1a. To be persuasive, this report must state that you had the appropriate definitive laboratory test(s) for diagnosing your HIV infection and provide the results. The report must also be consistent with the remaining evidence of record.
(ii) We may also document HIV infection by the medical history, clinical and laboratory findings, and diagnosis(es) indicated in the medical evidence, provided that such documentation is consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice and is consistent with the other evidence in your case record. For example, we will accept a diagnosis of HIV infection without definitive laboratory evidence of the HIV infection if you have an opportunistic disease that is predictive of a defect in cell-mediated immunity (for example, toxoplasmosis of the brain or
Pneumocystis
pneumonia (PCP)), and there is no other known cause of diminished resistance to that disease (for example, long-term steroid treatment or lymphoma). In such cases, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain full details of the history, medical findings, and results of testing.
2.
Documentation of the manifestations of HIV infection.
a.
Definitive documentation of manifestations of HIV infection.
We may document manifestations of HIV infection by positive findings on definitive laboratory tests, such as culture, microscopic examination of biopsied tissue or other material (for example, bronchial washings), serologic tests, or on other generally acceptable definitive tests consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice.
b. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain the results of your laboratory testing. Pursuant to § 416.919f of this chapter, we will purchase examinations or tests necessary to make a determination of your claim if no other acceptable documentation exists.
c.
Other acceptable documentation of manifestations of HIV infection.
We may also document manifestations of HIV infection without definitive laboratory evidence.
(i) We will accept a persuasive report from a physician that a positive diagnosis of your manifestation of HIV infection was confirmed by an appropriate laboratory test(s). To be persuasive, this report must state that you had the appropriate definitive laboratory test(s) for diagnosing your manifestation of HIV infection and provide the results. The report must also be consistent with the remaining evidence of record.
(ii) We may also document manifestations of HIV infection without the definitive laboratory evidence described in 114.00F2a, provided that such documentation is consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice and is consistent with the other evidence in your case record. For example, many conditions are now commonly diagnosed based on some or all of the following: Medical history, clinical manifestations, laboratory findings (including appropriate medically acceptable imaging), and treatment responses. In such cases, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain full details of the history, medical findings, and results of testing.
3.
Disorders associated with HIV infection (114.11A-E).
a.
Multicentric Castleman disease
(MCD, 114.11A) affects multiple groups of lymph nodes and organs containing lymphoid tissue. This widespread involvement distinguishes MCD from
localized
(or unicentric) Castleman disease, which affects only a single set of lymph nodes. While not a cancer,
MCD is known as a lymphoproliferative disorder. Its clinical presentation and progression is similar to that of lymphoma, and its treatment may include radiation or chemotherapy. We require characteristic findings on microscopic examination of the biopsied lymph nodes or other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice to establish the diagnosis. Localized (or unicentric) Castleman disease does not meet or medically equal the criterion in 114.11A, but we may evaluate it under the criteria in 114.11G or 14.11I in part A.
b.
Primary central nervous system lymphoma
(PCNSL, 114.11B) originates in the brain, spinal cord, meninges, or eye. Imaging tests (for example, MRI) of the brain, while not diagnostic, may show a single lesion or multiple lesions in the white matter of the brain. We require characteristic findings on microscopic examination of the cerebral spinal fluid or of the biopsied brain tissue, or other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice to establish the diagnosis.
c.
Primary effusion lymphoma
(PEL, 114.11C) is also known as body cavity lymphoma. We require characteristic findings on microscopic examination of the effusion fluid or of the biopsied tissue from the affected internal organ, or other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice to establish the diagnosis.
d.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
(PML, 114.11D) is a progressive neurological degenerative syndrome caused by the John Cunningham (JC) virus in immunosuppressed children. Clinical findings of PML include clumsiness, progressive weakness, and visual and speech changes. Personality and cognitive changes may also occur. We require appropriate clinical findings, characteristic white matter lesions on MRI, and a positive PCR test for the JC virus in the cerebrospinal fluid to establish the diagnosis. We also accept a positive brain biopsy for JC virus or other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice to establish the diagnosis.
e.
Pulmonary Kaposi sarcoma
(Kaposi sarcoma in the lung, 114.11E) is the most serious form of Kaposi sarcoma (KS). Other internal KS tumors (for example, tumors of the gastrointestinal tract) have a more variable prognosis. We require characteristic findings on microscopic examination of the induced sputum, bronchoalveolar lavage washings, or of the biopsied transbronchial tissue, or other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice to establish the diagnosis.
4.
CD4 measurement (114.11F).
To evaluate your HIV infection under 114.11F, we require one measurement of your absolute CD4 count (also known as CD4 count or CD4+ T-helper lymphocyte count) or CD4 percentage for children from birth to attainment of age 5, or one measurement of your absolute CD4 count for children from age 5 to attainment of age 18. These measurements (absolute CD4 count or CD4 percentage) must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review. If you have more than one CD4 measurement within this period, we will use your lowest absolute CD4 count or your lowest CD4 percentage.
5.
Complications of HIV infection requiring hospitalization (114.11G).
a. Complications of HIV infection may include infections (common or opportunistic), cancers, and other conditions. Examples of complications that may result in hospitalization include: Depression; diarrhea; immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome; malnutrition; and PCP and other severe infections.
b. Under 114.11G, we require three hospitalizations within a 12-month period that are at least 30 days apart and that result from a complication(s) of HIV infection. The hospitalizations may be for the same complication or different complications of HIV infection and are not limited to the examples of complications that may result in hospitalization listed in 114.00F5a. All three hospitalizations must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review. Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, including hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization.
c. We will use the rules on medical equivalence in § 416.926 of this chapter to evaluate your HIV infection if you have fewer, but longer, hospitalizations, or more frequent, but shorter, hospitalizations, or if you receive nursing, rehabilitation, or other care in alternative settings.
6.
Neurological manifestations specific to children (114.11H).
The methods of identifying and evaluating neurological manifestations may vary depending on a child's age. For example, in an infant, impaired brain growth can be documented by a decrease in the growth rate of the head. In an older child, impaired brain growth may be documented by brain atrophy on a CT scan or MRI. Neurological manifestations may present in the loss of acquired developmental milestones (developmental regression) in infants and young children or, in the loss of acquired intellectual abilities in school-age children and adolescents. A child may demonstrate loss of intellectual abilities by a decrease in
IQ scores, by forgetting information previously learned, by inability to learn new information, or by a sudden onset of a new learning disability. When infants and young children present with serious developmental delays (without regression), we evaluate the child's impairment(s) under 112.00.
7.
Growth failure due to HIV immune suppression (114.11I).
a. To evaluate growth failure due to HIV immune suppression, we require documentation of the laboratory values described in 114.11I1 and the growth measurements in 114.11I2 or 114.11I3 within the same consecutive 12-month period. The dates of laboratory findings may be different from the dates of growth measurements.
b. Under 114.11I2 and 114.11I3, we use the appropriate table under 105.08B in the digestive system to determine whether a child's growth is less than the third percentile.
(i) For children from birth to attainment of age 2, we use the weight-for-length table corresponding to the child's gender (Table I or Table II).
(ii) For children from age 2 to attainment of age 18, we use the body mass index (BMI)-for-age corresponding to the child's gender (Table III or Table IV).
(iii) BMI is the ratio of a child's weight to the square of his or her height. We calculate BMI using the formulas in the digestive disorders body system (105.00).

# G. How do we consider the effects of treatment in evaluating your autoimmune disorder, immune deficiency disorder, or HIV infection?
1.
General.
If your impairment does not otherwise meet the requirements of a listing, we will consider your medical treatment in terms of its effectiveness in improving the signs, symptoms, and laboratory abnormalities of your specific immune system disorder or its manifestations, and in terms of any side effects that limit your functioning. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain a specific description of the treatment you receive (including surgery) for your immune system disorder. We consider:
a. The effects of medications you take.
b. Adverse side effects (acute and chronic).
c. The intrusiveness and complexity of your treatment (for example, the dosing schedule, need for injections).
d. The effect of treatment on your mental functioning (for example, cognitive changes, mood disturbance).
e. Variability of your response to treatment (see 114.00G2).
f. The interactive and cumulative effects of your treatments. For example, many children with immune system disorders receive treatment both for their immune system disorders and for the manifestations of the disorders or co-occurring impairments, such as treatment for HIV infection and hepatitis C. The interactive and cumulative effects of these treatments may be greater than the effects of each treatment considered separately.
g. The duration of your treatment.
h. Any other aspects of treatment that may interfere with your ability to function.
2.
Variability of your response to treatment.
Your response to treatment and the adverse or beneficial consequences of your treatment may vary widely. The effects of your treatment may be temporary or long term. For example, some children may show an initial positive response to a drug or combination of drugs followed by a decrease in effectiveness. When we evaluate your response to treatment and how your treatment may affect you, we consider such factors as disease activity before treatment, requirements for changes in therapeutic regimens, the time required for therapeutic effectiveness of a particular drug or drugs, the limited number of drug combinations that may be available for your impairment(s), and the time-limited efficacy of some drugs. For example, a child with HIV infection or another immune deficiency disorder who develops otitis media may not respond to the same antibiotic regimen used in treating children without HIV infection or another immune deficiency disorder, or may not respond to an antibiotic that he or she responded to before. Therefore, we must consider the effects of your treatment on an individual basis, including the effects of your treatment on your ability to function.
3.
How we evaluate the effects of treatment for autoimmune disorders on your ability to function.
Some medications may have acute or long-term side effects. When we consider the effects of corticosteroids or other treatments for autoimmune disorders on your ability to function, we consider the factors in 114.00G1 and 114.00G2. Long-term corticosteroid treatment can cause ischemic necrosis of bone, posterior subcapsular cataract, impaired growth, weight gain, glucose intolerance, increased susceptibility to infection, and osteopenia that may result in a loss of function. In addition, medications used in the treatment of autoimmune disorders may also have effects on mental functioning, including cognition (for example, memory), concentration, and mood.
4.
How we evaluate the effects of treatment for immune deficiency disorders, excluding HIV infection, on your ability to function.
When we consider the effects of your treatment for your immune deficiency disorder on your ability to function, we consider the factors in 114.00G1 and 114.00G2. A frequent need for treatment such as intravenous immunoglobulin and gamma interferon therapy can be intrusive and interfere with your ability to function. We will also consider whether you have chronic side effects from these or other medications, including severe
fatigue, fever, headaches, high blood pressure, joint swelling, muscle aches, nausea, shortness of breath, or limitations in mental function including cognition (for example, memory) concentration, and mood.
5.
How we evaluate the effects of treatment for HIV infection on your ability to function.
a.
General.
When we consider the effects of antiretroviral drugs (including the effects of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART)) and the effects of treatments for the manifestations of HIV infection on your ability to function, we consider the factors in 114.00G1 and 114.00G2. Side effects of antiretroviral drugs include, but are not limited to: Bone marrow suppression, pancreatitis, gastrointestinal intolerance (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), neuropathy, rash, hepatotoxicity, lipodystrophy (fat redistribution, such as “buffalo hump”), glucose intolerance, and lactic acidosis. In addition, medications used in the treatment of HIV infection may also have effects on mental functioning, including cognition (for example, memory), concentration, and mood, and may result in malaise, severe fatigue, joint and muscle pain, and insomnia. The symptoms of HIV infection and the side effects of medication may be indistinguishable from each other. We will consider all of your functional limitations, whether they result from your symptoms or signs of HIV infection or the side effects of your treatment.
b.
Structured treatment interruptions.
A structured treatment interruption (STI, also called a “drug holiday”) is a treatment practice during which your treating source advises you to stop taking your medications temporarily. An STI in itself does not imply that your medical condition has improved; nor does it imply that you are noncompliant with your treatment because you are following your treating source's advice. Therefore, if you have stopped taking medication because your treating source prescribed or recommended an STI, we will not find that you are failing to follow treatment or draw inferences about the severity of your impairment on this fact alone. We will consider why your treating source has prescribed or recommended an STI and all the other information in your case record when we determine the severity of your impairment.
6.
When there is no record of ongoing treatment.
If you have not received ongoing treatment or have not had an ongoing relationship with the medical community despite the existence of a severe impairment(s), we will evaluate the medical severity and duration of your immune system disorder on the basis of the current objective medical evidence and other evidence in your case record, taking into consideration your medical history, symptoms, clinical and laboratory findings, and medical source opinions. If you have just begun treatment and we cannot determine whether you are disabled based on the evidence we have, we may need to wait to determine the effect of the treatment on your ability to develop and function in an age-appropriate manner. The amount of time we need to wait will depend on the facts of your case. If you have not received treatment, you may not be able to show an impairment that meets the criteria of one of the immune system disorders listings, but your immune system disorder may medically equal a listing or functionally equal the listings.

# H. How do we consider your symptoms, including your pain, severe fatigue, and malaise?
Your symptoms, including pain, severe fatigue, and malaise, may be important factors in our determination whether your immune system disorder(s) meets or medically equals a listing or in our determination whether you otherwise have marked and severe functional limitations. In order for us to consider your symptoms, you must have medical signs or laboratory findings showing the existence of a medically determinable impairment(s) that could reasonably be expected to produce the symptoms. If you have such an impairment(s), we will evaluate the intensity, persistence, and functional effects of your symptoms using the rules throughout 114.00 and in our other regulations. See §§ 416.921 and 416.929. Additionally, when we assess the credibility of your complaints about your symptoms and their functional effects, we will not draw any inferences from the fact that you do not receive treatment or that you are not following treatment without considering all of the relevant evidence in your case record, including any explanations you provide that may explain why you are not receiving or following treatment.

# I. How do we consider the impact of your immune system disorder on your functioning?
1. We will consider all relevant information in your case record to determine the full impact of your immune system disorder, including HIV infection, on your ability to function. Functional limitation may result from the impact of the disease process itself on your mental functioning, physical functioning, or both your mental and physical functioning. This could result from persistent or intermittent symptoms, such as depression, diarrhea, severe fatigue, or pain, resulting in a limitation of your ability to acquire information, to concentrate, to persevere at a task, to interact with others, to move about, or to cope with stress. You may also have limitations because of your treatment and its side effects (see 114.00G).
2. Important factors we will consider when we evaluate your functioning include, but are not limited to: Your symptoms (see
114.00H), the frequency and duration of manifestations of your immune system disorder, periods of exacerbation and remission, and the functional impact of your treatment, including the side effects of your medication (see 114.00G). See §§ 416.924a and 416.926a of this chapter for additional guidance on the factors we consider when we evaluate your functioning.
3. We will use the rules in §§ 416.924a and 416.926a of this chapter to evaluate your functional limitations and determine whether your impairment functionally equals the listings.

# J. How do we evaluate your immune system disorder when it does not meet one of these listings?
1. These listings are only examples of immune system disorders that we consider severe enough to result in marked and severe functional limitations. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. Children with immune system disorders, including HIV infection, may manifest signs or symptoms of a mental impairment or of another physical impairment. For example, HIV infection may accelerate the onset of conditions such as diabetes or affect the course of or treatment options for diseases such as cardiovascular disease or hepatitis. We may evaluate these impairments under the affected body system.For example, we will evaluate:
a. Growth impairment under 100.00.
b. Musculoskeletal involvement, such as surgical reconstruction of a joint, under 101.00.
c. Ocular involvement, such as dry eye, under 102.00.
d. Respiratory impairments, such as pleuritis, under 103.00.
e. Cardiovascular impairments, such as cardiomyopathy, under 104.00.
f. Digestive impairments, such as hepatitis (including hepatitis C) or weight loss as a result of HIV infection that affects the digestive system, under 105.00.
g. Genitourinary impairments, such as nephropathy, under 106.00.
h. Hematologic abnormalities, such as anemia, granulocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia, under 107.00.
i. Skin impairments, such as persistent fungal and other infectious skin eruptions, and photosensitivity, under 108.00.
j. Neurologic impairments, such as neuropathy or seizures, under 111.00.
k. Mental disorders, such as depression, anxiety, or cognitive deficits, under 112.00.
l. Allergic disorders, such as asthma or atopic dermatitis, under 103.00 or 108.00 or under the criteria in another affected body system.
m. Syphilis or neurosyphilis under the criteria for the affected body system, for example, 102.00 Special senses and speech, 104.00 Cardiovascular system, or 111.00 Neurological.
3. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. (See § 416.926.) If it does not, we will also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that functionally equals the listings. (See § 416.926a.) We use the rules in § 416.994a when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.
114.01
Category of Impairments, Immune System Disorders.
114.02
Systemic lupus erythematosus,
as described in 114.00D1. With involvement of two or more organs/body systems, and with:
A. One of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity;

# AND
B. At least two of the constitutional symptoms and signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss).
114.03
Systemic vasculitis,
as described in 114.00D2. With involvement of two or more organs/body systems, and with:
A. One of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity;

# AND
B. At least two of the constitutional symptoms and signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss).
114.04
Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma).
As described in 114.00D3. With:
A. Involvement of two or more organs/body systems, with:
1. One of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity; and
2. At least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss).
or
B. One of the following:
1. Toe contractures or fixed deformity of one or both feet and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
a. A documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)); or
b. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7), and a documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii)); or
2. Finger contractures or fixed deformity in both hands and medical documentation of an inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7); or
3. Atrophy with irreversible damage in one or both lower extremities and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
a. A documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)); or
b. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7), and a documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii)); or
4. Atrophy with irreversible damage in
both
upper extremities and medical documentation of an inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7); or
C. Raynaud's phenomenon, characterized by:
B. One of the following:
1. Toe contractures or fixed deformity of one or both feet and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
a. A documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)); or
b. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7), and a documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii)); or
2. Finger contractures or fixed deformity in both hands and medical documentation of an inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7); or
3. Atrophy with irreversible damage in one or both lower extremities and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
a. A documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)); or
b. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7), and a documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii)); or
4. Atrophy with irreversible damage in
both
upper extremities and medical documentation of an inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7); or
C. Raynaud's phenomenon, characterized by:
1. Gangrene involving at least two extremities; or
2. Ischemia with ulcerations of toes or fingers and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
a. A documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)); or
b. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7), and a documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii)); or
c. An inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7).
114.05
Polymyositis and dermatomyositis.
As described in 114.00D4. With:
A. Proximal limb-girdle (pelvic or shoulder) muscle weakness and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
1. A documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)); or
2. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7), and a documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii)); or
3. An inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7); or
B. Impaired swallowing (dysphagia) with aspiration due to muscle weakness.
or
C. Impaired respiration due to intercostal and diaphragmatic muscle weakness.
or
D. Diffuse calcinosis with limitation of joint mobility or intestinal motility.
114.06
Undifferentiated and mixed connective tissue disease,
as described in 114.00D5. With involvement of two or more organs/body systems, and with:
A. One of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity;

# AND
B. At least two of the constitutional symptoms and signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss).
114.07
Immune deficiency disorders, excluding HIV infection.
As described in 114.00E. With:
A. One or more of the following infections. The infection(s) must either be resistant to treatment or require hospitalization or intravenous treatment three or more times in a 12-month period.
1. Sepsis; or
2. Meningitis; or
3. Pneumonia; or
4. Septic arthritis; or
5. Endocarditis; or
6. Sinusitis documented by appropriate medically acceptable imaging.
or
B. Stem cell transplantation as described under 114.00E3. Consider under a disability until at least 12 months from the date of transplantation. Thereafter, evaluate any residual impairment(s) under the criteria for the affected body system.
114.08 [Reserved]
114.09
Inflammatory arthritis.
As described in 114.00D6. With:
A. Persistent inflammation or persistent deformity of:
1. One or more major joints in a lower extremity (see 114.00C8) and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
a. A documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 101.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 101.00C6e(i)); or
b. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7), and a documented medical need (see 114.00C6) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 101.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 101.00C6e(ii)); or
2. One or more major joints in each upper extremity (see 114.00C8) and medical documentation of an inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete age-appropriate activities involving fine and gross movements (see 114.00C7); or
B. Inflammation or deformity in one or more major joints of an upper or lower extremity (see 114.00C8) with:
1. Involvement of two or more organs/body systems with one of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity; and
2. At least two of the constitutional symptoms or signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss).
or
C. Ankylosing spondylitis or other spondyloarthropathies, with:
1. Ankylosis (fixation) of the dorsolumbar or cervical spine as shown by appropriate medically acceptable imaging and measured on physical examination at 45° or more of flexion from the vertical position (zero degrees); or
2. Ankylosis (fixation) of the dorsolumbar or cervical spine as shown by appropriate medically acceptable imaging and measured on physical examination at 30° or more of flexion (but less than 45°) measured from the vertical position (zero degrees), and involvement of two or more organs/body systems with one of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity.
114.10
Sjögren's syndrome,
as described in 114.00D7. With involvement of two or more organs/body systems, and with:
A. One of the organs/body systems involved to at least a moderate level of severity;

# AND
B. At least two of the constitutional symptoms and signs (severe fatigue, fever, malaise, or involuntary weight loss).
114.11
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
With documentation as described in 114.00F1 and one of the following:
A. Multicentric (not localized or unicentric) Castleman disease affecting multiple groups of lymph nodes or organs containing lymphoid tissue (see 114.00F3a).
OR
B. Primary central nervous system lymphoma (see 114.00F3b).
OR
C. Primary effusion lymphoma (see 114.00F3c).
OR
D. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (see 114.00F3d).
OR
E. Pulmonary Kaposi sarcoma (see 114.00F3e).
OR
F. Absolute CD4 count or CD4 percentage (see 114.00F4):
1. For children from birth to attainment of age 1, absolute CD4 count of 500 cells/mm
3
or less, or CD4 percentage of less than 15 percent; or
2. For children from age 1 to attainment of age 5, absolute CD4 count of 200 cells/mm
3
or less, or CD4 percentage of less than 15 percent; or
3. For children from age 5 to attainment of age 18, absolute CD4 count of 50 cells/mm
3
or less.
OR
G. Complication(s) of HIV infection requiring at least three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and at least 30 days apart (see 114.00F5). Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, including hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization.
OR
H. A neurological manifestation of HIV infection (for example, HIV encephalopathy or peripheral neuropathy) (see 114.00F6) resulting in one of the following:
1. Loss of previously acquired developmental milestones or intellectual ability (including the sudden onset of a new learning disability), documented on two examinations at least 60 days apart; or
2. Progressive motor dysfunction affecting gait and station or fine and gross motor skills, documented on two examinations at least 60 days apart; or
3. Microcephaly with head circumference that is less than the third percentile for age, documented on two examinations at least 60 days apart; or
4. Brain atrophy, documented by appropriate medically acceptable imaging.
OR
I. Immune suppression and growth failure (see 114.00F7) documented by 1 and 2, or by 1 and 3:
1. CD4 measurement:
a. For children from birth to attainment of age 5, CD4 percentage of less than 20 percent; or
b. For children from age 5 to attainment of age 18, absolute CD4 count of less than 200 cells/mm
3
or CD4 percentage of less than 14 percent; and
2. For children from birth to attainment of age 2, three weight-for-length measurements that are:
a. Within a consecutive 12-month period; and
b. At least 60 days apart; and
c. Less than the third percentile on the appropriate weight-for-length table under 105.08B1; or
3. For children from age 2 to attainment of age 18, three BMI-for-age measurements that are:
a. Within a consecutive 12-month period; and
b. At least 60 days apart; and
c. Less than the third percentile on the appropriate BMI-for-age table under 105.08B2.
[50 FR 35066, Aug. 28, 1985]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting appendix 1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 404, Subpt. P, App. 1, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 5590, Jan. 17, 2025, appendix 1 to subpart P of part 404 was amended by:
a. In part A, section 1.00C7, revising paragraphs a and c; and
b. In part B, section 101.00C7, revising paragraphs a and c., effective until May 11, 2029.
Pt. 404, Subpt. P, App. 2

# Appendix 2 to Subpart P of Part 404—Medical-Vocational Guidelines
Sec.
200.00 Introduction.
201.00 Maximum sustained work capability limited to sedentary work as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
202.00 Maximum sustained work capability limited to light work as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
203.00 Maximum sustained work capability limited to medium work as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
204.00 Maximum sustained work capability limited to heavy work (or very heavy work) as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
200.00
Introduction.
(a) The following rules reflect the major functional and vocational patterns which are encountered in cases which cannot be evaluated on medical considerations alone, where an individual with a severe medically determinable physical or mental impairment(s) is not engaging in substantial gainful activity and the individual's impairment(s) prevents the performance of his or her vocationally relevant past work. They also reflect the analysis of the various vocational factors (
i.e.
, age, education, and work experience) in combination with the individual's residual functional capacity (used to determine his or her maximum sustained work capability for sedentary, light, medium, heavy, or very heavy work) in evaluating the individual's ability to engage in
substantial gainful activity in other than his or her vocationally relevant past work. Where the findings of fact made with respect to a particular individual's vocational factors and residual functional capacity coincide with all of the criteria of a particular rule, the rule directs a conclusion as to whether the individual is or is not disabled. However, each of these findings of fact is subject to rebuttal and the individual may present evidence to refute such findings. Where any one of the findings of fact does not coincide with the corresponding criterion of a rule, the rule does not apply in that particular case and, accordingly, does not direct a conclusion of disabled or not disabled. In any instance where a rule does not apply, full consideration must be given to all of the relevant facts of the case in accordance with the definitions and discussions of each factor in the appropriate sections of the regulations.
(b) The existence of jobs in the national economy is reflected in the “Decisions” shown in the rules;
i.e.
, in promulgating the rules, administrative notice has been taken of the numbers of unskilled jobs that exist throughout the national economy at the various functional levels (sedentary, light, medium, heavy, and very heavy) as supported by the “Dictionary of Occupational Titles” and the “Occupational Outlook Handbook,” published by the Department of Labor; the “County Business Patterns” and “Census Surveys” published by the Bureau of the Census; and occupational surveys of light and sedentary jobs prepared for the Social Security Administration by various State employment agencies. Thus, when all factors coincide with the criteria of a rule, the existence of such jobs is established. However, the existence of such jobs for individuals whose remaining functional capacity or other factors do not coincide with the criteria of a rule must be further considered in terms of what kinds of jobs or types of work may be either additionally indicated or precluded.
(c) In the application of the rules, the individual's residual functional capacity (
i.e.
, the maximum degree to which the individual retains the capacity for sustained performance of the physical-mental requirements of jobs), age, education, and work experience must first be determined. When assessing the person's residual functional capacity, we consider his or her symptoms (such as pain), signs, and laboratory findings together with other evidence we obtain.
(d) The correct disability decision (
i.e.
, on the issue of ability to engage in substantial gainful activity) is found by then locating the individual's specific vocational profile. If an individual's specific profile is not listed within this appendix 2, a conclusion of disabled or not disabled is not directed. Thus, for example, an individual's ability to engage in substantial gainful work where his or her residual functional capacity falls between the ranges of work indicated in the rules (e.g., the individual who can perform more than light but less than medium work), is decided on the basis of the principles and definitions in the regulations, giving consideration to the rules for specific case situations in this appendix 2. These rules represent various combinations of exertional capabilities, age, education and work experience and also provide an overall structure for evaluation of those cases in which the judgments as to each factor do not coincide with those of any specific rule. Thus, when the necessary judgments have been made as to each factor and it is found that no specific rule applies, the rules still provide guidance for decisionmaking, such as in cases involving combinations of impairments. For example, if strength limitations resulting from an individual's impairment(s) considered with the judgments made as to the individual's age, education and work experience correspond to (or closely approximate) the factors of a particular rule, the adjudicator then has a frame of reference for considering the jobs or types of work precluded by other, nonexertional impairments in terms of numbers of jobs remaining for a particular individual.
(e) Since the rules are predicated on an individual's having an impairment which manifests itself by limitations in meeting the strength requirements of jobs, they may not be fully applicable where the nature of an individual's impairment does not result in such limitations, e.g., certain mental, sensory, or skin impairments. In addition, some impairments may result solely in postural and manipulative limitations or environmental restrictions. Environmental restrictions are those restrictions which result in inability to tolerate some physical feature(s) of work settings that occur in certain industries or types of work, e.g., an inability to tolerate dust or fumes.
(1) In the evaluation of disability where the individual has solely a nonexertional type of impairment, determination as to whether disability exists shall be based on the principles in the appropriate sections of the regulations, giving consideration to the rules for specific case situations in this appendix 2. The rules do not direct factual conclusions of disabled or not disabled for individuals with solely nonexertional types of impairments.
(2) However, where an individual has an impairment or combination of impairments resulting in both strength limitations and nonexertional limitations, the rules in this subpart are considered in determining first whether a finding of disabled may be possible based on the strength limitations alone and, if not, the rule(s) reflecting the individual's maximum residual strength capabilities, age, education, and work experience provide
a framework for consideration of how much the individual's work capability is further diminished in terms of any types of jobs that would be contraindicated by the nonexertional limitations. Also, in these combinations of nonexertional and exertional limitations which cannot be wholly determined under the rules in this appendix 2, full consideration must be given to all of the relevant facts in the case in accordance with the definitions and discussions of each factor in the appropriate sections of the regulations, which will provide insight into the adjudicative weight to be accorded each factor.
201.00
Maximum sustained work capability limited to sedentary work as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
(a) Most sedentary occupations fall within the skilled, semi-skilled, professional, administrative, technical, clerical, and benchwork classifications. Approximately 200 separate unskilled sedentary occupations can be identified, each representing numerous jobs in the national economy. Approximately 85 percent of these jobs are in the machine trades and benchwork occupational categories. These jobs (unskilled sedentary occupations) may be performed after a short demonstration or within 30 days.
(b) These unskilled sedentary occupations are standard within the industries in which they exist. While sedentary work represents a significantly restricted range of work, this range in itself is not so prohibitively restricted as to negate work capability for substantial gainful activity.
(c) Vocational adjustment to sedentary work may be expected where the individual has special skills or experience relevant to sedentary work or where age and basic educational competences provide sufficient occupational mobility to adapt to the major segment of unskilled sedentary work. Inability to engage in substantial gainful activity would be indicated where an individual who is restricted to sedentary work because of a severe medically determinable impairment lacks special skills or experience relevant to sedentary work, lacks educational qualifications relevant to most sedentary work (e.g., has a limited education or less) and the individual's age, though not necessarily advanced, is a factor which significantly limits vocational adaptability.
(d) The adversity of functional restrictions to sedentary work at advanced age (55 and over) for individuals with no relevant past work or who can no longer perform vocationally relevant past work and have no transferable skills, warrants a finding of disabled in the absence of the rare situation where the individual has recently completed education which provides a basis for direct entry into skilled sedentary work. Advanced age and a history of unskilled work or no work experience would ordinarily offset any vocational advantages that might accrue by reason of any remote past education, whether it is more or less than limited education.
(e) The presence of acquired skills that are readily transferable to a significant range of skilled work within an individual's residual functional capacity would ordinarily warrant a finding of ability to engage in substantial gainful activity regardless of the adversity of age, or whether the individual's formal education is commensurate with his or her demonstrated skill level. The acquisition of work skills demonstrates the ability to perform work at the level of complexity demonstrated by the skill level attained regardless of the individual's formal educational attainments.
(f) In order to find transferability of skills to skilled sedentary work for individuals who are of advanced age (55 and over), there must be very little, if any, vocational adjustment required in terms of tools, work processes, work settings, or the industry.
(g) Individuals approaching advanced age (age 50-54) may be significantly limited in vocational adaptability if they are restricted to sedentary work. When such individuals have no past work experience or can no longer perform vocationally relevant past work and have no transferable skills, a finding of disabled ordinarily obtains. However, recently completed education which provides for direct entry into sedentary work will preclude such a finding. For this age group, even a high school education or more (ordinarily completed in the remote past) would have little impact for effecting a vocational adjustment unless relevant work experience reflects use of such education.
(h)(1) The term
younger individual
is used to denote an individual age 18 through 49. For individuals who are age 45-49, age is a less advantageous factor for making an adjustment to other work than for those who are age 18-44. Accordingly, a finding of “disabled” is warranted for individuals age 45-49 who:
(i) Are restricted to sedentary work,
(ii) Are unskilled or have no transferable skills,
(iii) Have no past relevant work or can no longer perform past relevant work, and
(iv) Are illiterate.
(2) For individuals who are under age 45, age is a more advantageous factor for making an adjustment to other work. It is usually not a significant factor in limiting such individual's ability to make an adjustment to other work, including an adjustment to unskilled sedentary work, even when the individuals are illiterate.
(3) Nevertheless, a decision of “disabled” may be appropriate for some individuals under age 45 (or individuals age 45-49 for whom rule 201.17 does not direct a decision of disabled) who do not have the ability to perform a full range of sedentary work. However, the inability to perform a full range of
sedentary work does not necessarily equate with a finding of “disabled.” Whether an individual will be able to make an adjustment to other work requires an adjudicative assessment of factors such as the type and extent of the individual's limitations or restrictions and the extent of the erosion of the occupational base. It requires an individualized determination that considers the impact of the limitations or restrictions on the number of sedentary, unskilled occupations or the total number of jobs to which the individual may be able to adjust, considering his or her age, education and work experience, including any transferable skills or education providing for direct entry into skilled work.
(4) “Sedentary work” represents a significantly restricted range of work, and individuals with a maximum sustained work capability limited to sedentary work have very serious functional limitations. Therefore, as with any case, a finding that an individual is limited to less than the full range of sedentary work will be based on careful consideration of the evidence of the individual's medical impairment(s) and the limitations and restrictions attributable to it. Such evidence must support the finding that the individual's residual functional capacity is limited to less than the full range of sedentary work.
(i) While illiteracy may significantly limit an individual's vocational scope, the primary work functions in most unskilled occupations involve working with things (rather than with data or people). In these work functions, education has the least significance. Similarly the lack of relevant work experience would have little significance since the bulk of unskilled jobs require no qualifying work experience. Thus, the functional capacity for a full range of sedentary work represents sufficient numbers of jobs to indicate substantial vocational scope for those individuals age 18-44, even if they are illiterate.
Table No. 1—Residual Functional Capacity: Maximum Sustained Work Capability Limited to Sedentary Work as a Result of Severe Medically Determinable Impairment(s)
Rule
Age
Education
Previous work experience
Decision
201.01
Advanced age
Limited or less
Unskilled or none
Disabled
201.02
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
1
Do.
201.03
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
1
Not disabled
201.04
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
2
Unskilled or none
Disabled
201.05
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
2
......do
Not disabled
201.06
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
2
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
1
Disabled
201.07
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
1
Not disabled
201.08
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
2
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
1
Do.
201.09
Closely approaching advanced age
Limited or less
Unskilled or none
Disabled
201.10
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
201.11
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Not disabled
201.12
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
3
Unskilled or none
Disabled
201.13
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
3
......do
Not disabled
201.14
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
3
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Disabled
201.15
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Not disabled
201.16
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
3
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
201.17
Younger individual age 45-49
Illiterate
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
201.18
......do
Limited or Marginal, but not Illiterate
......do
Not disabled.
201.19
......do
Limited or less
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
201.20
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
201.21
......do
High school graduate or more
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
201.22
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
201.23
Younger individual age 18-44
Illiterate
Unskilled or none
4
Do.
201.24
......do
Limited or Marginal, but not Illiterate
......do
4
Do.
201.25
......do
Limited or less
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
4
201.26
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
4
201.27
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
4
201.28
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
4
201.29
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
4
1
See 201.00(f).
2
See 201.00(d).
3
See 201.00(g).
4
See 201.00(h).
202.00
Maximum sustained work capability limited to light work as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
(a) The functional capacity to perform a full range of light work includes the functional capacity to perform sedentary as well as light work. Approximately 1,600 separate sedentary and light unskilled occupations can be identified in eight broad occupational categories, each occupation representing numerous jobs in the national economy. These jobs can be performed after a short demonstration or within 30 days, and do not require special skills or experience.
(b) The functional capacity to perform a wide or full range of light work represents substantial work capability compatible with making a work adjustment to substantial numbers of unskilled jobs and, thus, generally provides sufficient occupational mobility even for severely impaired individuals who are not of advanced age and have sufficient educational competences for unskilled work.
(c) However, for individuals of advanced age who can no longer perform vocationally relevant past work and who have a history of unskilled work experience, or who have only skills that are not readily transferable to a significant range of semi-skilled or skilled work that is within the individual's functional capacity, or who have no work experience, the limitations in vocational adaptability represented by functional restriction to light work warrant a finding of disabled. Ordinarily, even a high school education or more which was completed in the remote past will have little positive impact on effecting a vocational adjustment unless relevant work experience reflects use of such education.
(d) A finding of disabled is warranted where the same factors in paragraph (c) of this section regarding education and previous work experience are present, but where age, though not advanced, is a factor which significantly limits vocational adaptability (
i.e.,
closely approaching advanced age, 50-54) and an individual's vocational scope is further significantly limited by illiteracy.
(e) The presence of acquired skills that are readily transferable to a significant range of semi-skilled or skilled work within an individual's residual functional capacity would ordinarily warrant a finding of not disabled regardless of the adversity of age, or whether the individual's formal education is commensurate with his or her demonstrated skill level. The acquisition of work skills demonstrates the ability to perform work at the level of complexity demonstrated by the skill level attained regardless of the individual's formal educational attainments.
(f) For a finding of transferability of skills to light work for persons of advanced age who are closely approaching retirement age (age 60 or older), there must be very little, if any, vocational adjustment required in terms of tools, work processes, work settings, or the industry.
(g) While illiteracy may significantly limit an individual's vocational scope, the primary work functions in most unskilled occupations relate to working with things (rather
than data or people). In these work functions, education has the least significance. Similarly, the lack of relevant work experience would have little significance since the bulk of unskilled jobs require no qualifying work experience. The capability for light work, which includes the ability to do sedentary work, represents the capability for substantial numbers of such jobs. This, in turn, represents substantial vocational scope for younger individuals (age 18-49), even if they are illiterate.
Table No. 2—Residual Functional Capacity: Maximum Sustained Work Capability Limited to Light Work as a Result of Severe Medically Determinable Impairment(s)
Rule
Age
Education
Previous work experience
Decision
202.01
Advanced age
Limited or less
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
202.02
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
202.03
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
1
Not disabled.
202.04
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
2
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
202.05
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
2
......do
Not disabled.
202.06
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
2
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Disabled.
202.07
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
2
Not disabled.
202.08
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
2
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
202.09
Closely approaching advanced age
Illiterate
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
202.10
......do
Limited or Marginal, but not Illiterate
......do
Not disabled.
202.11
......do
Limited or less
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
202.12
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
202.13
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
202.14
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
202.15
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
202.16
Younger individual
Illiterate
Unskilled or none
Do.
202.17
......do
Limited or Marginal, but not Illiterate
......do
Do.
202.18
......do
Limited or less
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
202.19
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
202.20
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
202.21
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
202.22
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
1
See 202.00(f).
2
See 202.00(c).
203.00
Maximum sustained work capability limited to medium work as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
(a) The functional capacity to perform medium work includes the functional capacity to perform sedentary, light, and medium work. Approximately 2,500 separate sedentary, light, and medium occupations can be identified, each occupation representing numerous jobs in the national economy which do not require skills or previous experience and which can be performed after a short demonstration or within 30 days.
(b) The functional capacity to perform medium work represents such substantial work capability at even the unskilled level that a finding of disabled is ordinarily not warranted in cases where a severely impaired person retains the functional capacity to perform medium work. Even the adversity of
advanced age (55 or over) and a work history of unskilled work may be offset by the substantial work capability represented by the functional capacity to perform medium work. However, we will find that a person who (1) has a marginal education, (2) has work experience of 35 years or more doing only arduous unskilled physical labor, (3) is not working, and (4) is no longer able to do this kind of work because of a severe impairment(s) is disabled, even though the person is able to do medium work. (
See
§ 404.1562(a) in this subpart and § 416.962(a) in subpart I of part 416.)
(c) However, the absence of any relevant work experience becomes a more significant adversity for persons of advanced age (55 and over). Accordingly, this factor, in combination with a limited education or less, militates against making a vocational adjustment to even this substantial range of work and a finding of disabled is appropriate. Further, for persons closely approaching retirement age (60 or older) with a work history of unskilled work and with marginal education or less, a finding of disabled is appropriate.
Table No. 3—Residual Functional Capacity: Maximum Sustained Work Capability Limited to Medium Work as a Result of Severe Medically Determinable Impairment(s)
Rule
Age
Education
Previous work experience
Decision
203.01
Closely approaching retirement age
Marginal or Illiterate
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
203.02
......do
Limited or less
None
Do.
203.03
......do
Limited
Unskilled
Not disabled.
203.04
......do
Limited or less
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.05
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.06
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
203.07
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.08
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.09
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.10
Advanced age
Limited or less
None
Disabled.
203.11
......do
......do
Unskilled
Not disabled.
203.12
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.13
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.14
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
203.15
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.16
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.17
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.18
Closely approaching advanced age
Limited or less
Unskilled or none
Do.
203.19
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.20
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.21
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
203.22
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.23
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.24
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.25
Younger individual
Limited or less
Unskilled or none
Do.
203.26
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.27
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.28
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
203.29
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.30
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.31
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
204.00
Maximum sustained work capability limited to heavy work (or very heavy work) as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
The residual functional capacity to perform heavy work or very heavy work includes the functional capability for work at the lesser functional levels as well, and represents substantial work capability for jobs in the national economy at all skill and physical demand levels. Individuals who retain the functional capacity to perform heavy work (or very heavy work) ordinarily will not have a severe impairment or will be able to do their past work—either of which would have already provided a basis for a decision of “not disabled”. Environmental restrictions ordinarily would not significantly affect the range of work existing in the national economy for individuals with the physical capability for heavy work (or very heavy work). Thus an impairment which does not preclude heavy work (or very heavy work) would not ordinarily be the primary reason for unemployment, and generally is sufficient for a finding of not disabled, even though age, education, and skill level of prior work experience may be considered adverse.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 56 FR 57944, Nov. 14, 1991; 68 FR 51164, Aug. 26, 2003; 73 FR 64197, Oct. 29, 2008; 85 FR 10602, Feb. 25, 2020]

# Subpart Q—Determinations of Disability

# Authority:
Secs. 205(a), 221, and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(a), 421, and 902(a)(5)).

# Source:
46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 404.1601
Purpose and scope.
This subpart describes the standards of performance and administrative requirements and procedures for States making determinations of disability for the Commissioner under title II of the Act. It also establishes the Commissioner's responsibilities in carrying out the disability determination function.
(a) Sections 404.1601 through 404.1603 describe the purpose of the regulations and the meaning of terms frequently used in the regulations. They also briefly set forth the responsibilities of the Commissioner and the States covered in detail in other sections.
(b) Sections 404.1610 through 404.1618 describe the Commissioner's and the State's responsibilities in performing the disability determination function.
(c) Sections 404.1620 through 404.1633 describe the administrative responsibilities and requirements of the States. The corresponding role of the Commissioner is also set out.
(d) Sections 404.1640 through 404.1650 describe the performance accuracy and processing time standards for measuring State agency performance.
(e) Sections 404.1660 through 404.1661 describe when and what kind of assistance the Commissioner will provide State agencies to help them improve performance.
(f) Sections 404.1670 through 404.1675 describe the level of performance below which the Commissioner will consider a State agency to be substantially failing to make disability determinations consistent with the regulations and other written guidelines and the resulting action the Commissioner will take.
(g) Sections 404.1680 through 404.1683 describe the rules for resolving disputes concerning fiscal issues and providing hearings when we propose to find that a State is in substantial failure.
(h) Sections 404.1690 through 404.1694 describe when and what action the
Commissioner will take and what action the State will be expected to take if the Commissioner assumes the disability determination function from a State agency.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997; 71 FR 16445, Mar. 31, 2006; 76 FR 24808, May 3, 2011]
§ 404.1602
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Act
means the Social Security Act, as amended.
Class or classes of cases
means the categories into which disability claims are divided according to their characteristics.
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Social Security or his or her authorized designee.
Compassionate allowance
means a determination or decision we make under a process that identifies for expedited handling claims that involve impairments that invariably qualify under the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 to subpart P based on minimal, but sufficient, objective medical evidence.
Determination of disability
or
disability determination
means one or more of the following decisions:
(a) Whether or not a person is under a disability;
(b) The date a person's disability began; or
(c) The date a person's disability ended.
Disability
means
disability
or
blindness
as defined in sections 216(i) and 223 of the Act or as defined in title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended.
Disability determination function
means making determinations as to disability and carrying out related administrative and other responsibilities.
Disability program
means, as appropriate, the Federal programs for providing disability insurance benefits under title II of the Act and disability benefits under title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended.
Initial
means the first level of disability adjudication.
Other written guidelines
means written issuances such as Social Security Rulings and memoranda by the Commissioner of Social Security, the Deputy Commissioner for Programs and Policy, or the Associate Commissioner for Disability and the procedures, guides, and operating instructions in the Disability Insurance sections of the Program Operations Manual System, that are instructive, interpretive, clarifying, and/or administrative and not designated as advisory or discretionary. The purpose of including the foregoing material in the definition is to assure uniform national application of program standards and service delivery to the public.
Quick disability determination
means an initial determination on a claim that we have identified as one that reflects a high degree of probability that you will be found disabled and where we expect that your allegations will be easily and quickly verified.
Regulations
means regulations in this subpart issued under sections 205(a), 221 and 1102 of the Act, unless otherwise indicated.
State
means any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, or Guam. It includes the State agency.
State agency
means that agency of a State which has been designated by the State to carry out the disability determination function.
We, us,
and
our
refers to the Social Security Administration (SSA).
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 11018, Mar. 14, 1991; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997; 72 FR 51177, Sept. 6, 2007; 75 FR 62682, Oct. 13, 2010]
§ 404.1603
Basic responsibilities for us and the State.
(a)
General.
We will work with the State to provide and maintain an effective system for processing claims of those who apply for and who are receiving benefits under the disability program. We will provide program standards, leadership, and oversight. We do not intend to become involved in the State's ongoing management of the program except as is necessary and in accordance with these regulations. The State will comply with our regulations and other written guidelines.
(b)
Our responsibilities.
We will:
(1) Periodically review the regulations and other written guidelines to
determine whether they insure effective and uniform administration of the disability program. To the extent feasible, we will consult with and take into consideration the experience of the States in issuing regulations and guidelines necessary to insure effective and uniform administration of the disability program;
(2) Provide training materials or in some instances conduct or specify training, see § 404.1622;
(3) Provide funds to the State agency for the necessary cost of performing the disability determination function, see § 404.1626;
(4) Monitor and evaluate the performance of the State agency under the established standards, see §§ 404.1644 and 404.1645; and
(5) Maintain liaison with the medical profession nationally and with national organizations and agencies whose interests or activities may affect the disability program.
(c)
Responsibilities of the State.
The State will:
(1) Provide management needed to insure that the State agency carries out the disability determination function so that disability determinations are made accurately and promptly;
(2) Provide an organizational structure, adequate facilities, qualified personnel, medical consultant services, designated quick disability determination examiners (§§ 404.1619 and 404.1620(c)), and a quality assurance function (§§ 404.1620 through 404.1624);
(3) Furnish reports and records relating to the administration of the disability program (§ 404.1625);
(4) Submit budgets (§ 404.1626);
(5) Cooperate with audits (§ 404.1627);
(6) Insure that all applicants for and recipients of disability benefits are treated equally and courteously;
(7) Be responsible for property used for disability program purposes (§ 404.1628);
(8) Take part in the research and demonstration projects (§ 404.1629);
(9) Coordinate with other agencies (§ 404.1630);
(10) Safeguard the records created by the State in performing the disability determination function (§ 404.1631);
(11) Comply with other provisions of the Federal law and regulations that apply to the State in performing the disability determination function;
(12) Comply with other written guidelines (§ 404.1633);
(13) Maintain liaison with the medical profession and organizations that may facilitate performing the disability determination function; and
(14) Assist us in other ways that we determine may promote the objectives of effective and uniform administration.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 72 FR 51177, Sept. 6, 2007]

# Responsibilities for Performing the Disability Determination Function
§ 404.1610
How a State notifies us that it wishes to perform the disability determination function.
(a)
Deemed notice.
Any State that has in effect as of June 1, 1981, an agreement with us to make disability determinations will be deemed to have given us notice that it wishes to perform the disability determination function, in lieu of continuing the agreement in effect after June 1, 1981.
(b)
Written notice.
After June 1, 1981, a State not making disability determinations that wishes to perform the disability determination function under these regulations must notify us in writing. The notice must be from an official authorized to act for the State for this purpose. The State will provide an opinion from the State's Attorney General verifying the authority of the official who sent the notice to act for the State.
§ 404.1611
How we notify a State whether it may perform the disability determination function.
(a) If a State notifies us in writing that it wishes to perform the disability determination function, we will notify the State in writing whether or not it may perform the function. The State will begin performing the disability determination function beginning with the month we and the State agree upon.
(b) If we have previously found that a State agency has substantially failed to make disability determinations in accordance with the law or these regulations and other written guidelines or
if the State has previously notified us in writing that it does not wish to make disability determinations, the notice will advise the State whether the State agency may again make the disability determinations and, if so, the date and the conditions under which the State may again make them.
§ 404.1613
Disability determinations the State makes.
(a)
General rule.
A State agency will make determinations of disability with respect to all persons in the State except those individuals whose cases are in a class specifically excluded by our written guidelines. A determination of disability made by the State is the determination of the Commissioner, except as described in § 404.1503(d)(1).
(b)
New classes of cases.
Where any new class or classes of cases arise requiring determinations of disability, we will determine the conditions under which a State may choose not to make the disability determinations. We will provide the State with the necessary funding to do the additional work.
(c)
Temporary transfer of classes of cases.
We will make disability determinations for classes of cases temporarily transferred to us by the State agency if the State agency asks us to do so and we agree. The State agency will make written arrangements with us which will specify the period of time and the class or classes of cases we will do.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1614
Responsibilities for obtaining evidence to make disability determinations.
(a) We or the State agency will secure from the claimant or other sources any evidence the State agency needs to make a disability determination. When we secure the evidence, we will furnish it to the State agency for use in making the disability determination.
(b) At our request, the State agency will obtain and furnish medical or other evidence and provide assistance as may be necessary for us to carry out our responsibilities—
(1) For making disability determinations in those classes of cases described in the written guidelines for which the State agency does not make the determination; or
(2) Under international agreements with respect to social security benefits payable under section 233 of the Act.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 79 FR 33682, June 12, 2014]
§ 404.1615
Making disability determinations.
(a) When making a disability determination, the State agency will apply subpart P, part 404, of our regulations.
(b) The State agency will make disability determinations based only on the medical and nonmedical evidence in its files.
(c) Disability determinations will be made by:
(1) A State agency medical or psychological consultant and a State agency disability examiner;
(2) A State agency disability examiner alone when there is no medical evidence to be evaluated (
i.e.
, no medical evidence exists or we are unable, despite making every reasonable effort, to obtain any medical evidence that may exist) and the individual fails or refuses, without a good reason, to attend a consultative examination (see § 404.1518);
(3) A State agency disability examiner alone if the claim is adjudicated under the quick disability determination process (see § 404.1619) or the compassionate allowance process (see § 404.1602), and the initial or reconsidered determination is fully favorable to you. This paragraph (c)(3) will no longer be effective on December 28, 2018 unless we terminate it earlier by publication of a final rule in the
Federal Register
; or
(4) A State agency disability hearing officer.
See § 404.1616 for the definition of medical or psychological consultant and § 404.915 for the definition of disability hearing officer. The State agency disability examiner and disability hearing officer must be qualified to interpret and evaluate medical reports and other evidence relating to the claimant's physical or mental impairments and as necessary to determine the capacities of the claimant to perform substantial gainful activity.
See § 404.1572 for what we mean by substantial gainful activity.
(d) The State agency will certify each determination of disability to us on forms we provide.
(e) The State agency will furnish us with all the evidence it considered in making its determination.
(f) The State agency will not be responsible for defending in court any determination made, or any procedure for making determinations, under these regulations.
[52 FR 33926, Sept. 9, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 11018, Mar. 14, 1991; 61 FR 11135, Mar. 19, 1996; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997; 65 FR 34958, June 1, 2000; 75 FR 62682, Oct. 13, 2010; 78 FR 66639, Nov. 6, 2013; 79 FR 51243, Aug. 28, 2014; 80 FR 63093, Oct. 19, 2015; 81 FR 73028, Oct. 24, 2016; 82 FR 5872, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1616
Medical consultants and psychological consultants.
(a)
What is a medical consultant?
A medical consultant is a member of a team that makes disability determinations in a State agency (see § 404.1615), or who is a member of a team that makes disability determinations for us when we make disability determinations ourselves. The medical consultant completes the medical portion of the case review and any applicable residual functional capacity assessment about all physical impairment(s) in a claim.
(b)
What qualifications must a medical consultant have?
A medical consultant is a licensed physician, as defined in § 404.1502(a)(1).
(c)
What is a psychological consultant?
A psychological consultant is a member of a team that makes disability determinations in a State agency (see § 404.1615), or who is a member of a team that makes disability determinations for us when we make disability determinations ourselves. The psychological consultant completes the medical portion of the case review and any applicable residual functional capacity assessment about all mental impairment(s) in a claim. When we are unable to obtain the services of a qualified psychiatrist or psychologist despite making every reasonable effort (see § 404.1617) in a claim involving a mental impairment(s), a medical consultant will evaluate the mental impairment(s).
(d)
What qualifications must a psychological consultant have?
A psychological consultant can be either a licensed psychiatrist or psychologist. We will only consider a psychologist qualified to be a psychological consultant if he or she:
(1) Is licensed or certified as a psychologist at the independent practice level of psychology by the State in which he or she practices; and
(2)(i) Possesses a doctorate degree in psychology from a program in clinical psychology of an educational institution accredited by an organization recognized by the Council on Post-Secondary Accreditation; or
(ii) Is listed in a national register of health service providers in psychology which the Commissioner of Social Security deems appropriate; and
(3) Possesses 2 years of supervised clinical experience as a psychologist in health service, at least 1 year of which is post-masters degree.
(e)
Cases involving both physical and mental impairments.
In a case where there is evidence of both physical and mental impairments, the medical consultant will evaluate the physical impairments in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, and the psychological consultant will evaluate the mental impairment(s) in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
[82 FR 5873, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1617
Reasonable efforts to obtain review by a physician, psychiatrist, and psychologist.
(a) When the evidence of record indicates the existence of a physical impairment, the State agency must make every reasonable effort to ensure that a medical consultant completes the medical portion of the case review and any applicable residual functional capacity assessment. When the evidence of record indicates the existence of a mental impairment, the State agency must make every reasonable effort to ensure that a psychological consultant completes the medical portion of the case review and any applicable residual functional capacity assessment. The State agency must determine if additional physicians, psychiatrists, and psychologists are needed to make the necessary reviews. When it does not have sufficient resources to make the
necessary reviews, the State agency must attempt to obtain the resources needed. If the State agency is unable to obtain additional physicians, psychiatrists, and psychologists because of low salary rates or fee schedules, it should attempt to raise the State agency's levels of compensation to meet the prevailing rates for these services. If these efforts are unsuccessful, the State agency will seek assistance from us. We will assist the State agency as necessary. We will also monitor the State agency's efforts and where the State agency is unable to obtain the necessary services, we will make every reasonable effort to provide the services using Federal resources.
(b) Federal resources may include the use of Federal contracts for the services of qualified psychiatrists and psychologists to review mental impairment cases. Where Federal resources are required to perform these reviews, which are a basic State agency responsibility, and where appropriate, the State agency's budget will be reduced accordingly.
(c) Where every reasonable effort is made to obtain the services of a qualified psychiatrist or psychologist to review a mental impairment case, but the professional services are not obtained, a physician who is not a psychiatrist will review the mental impairment case. For these purposes, every reasonable effort to ensure that a qualified psychiatrist or psychologist review mental impairment cases will be considered to have been made only after efforts by both State and Federal agencies as set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are made.
[52 FR 33927, Sept. 9, 1987, as amended at 82 FR 5873, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1618
Notifying claimants of the disability determination.
The State agency will prepare denial notices in accordance with subpart J of this part whenever it makes a disability determination which is fully or partially unfavorable to the claimant.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 75 FR 33168, June 11, 2010]

# Quick Disability Determinations
§ 404.1619
Quick disability determination process.
(a) If we identify a claim as one involving a high degree of probability that the individual is disabled, and we expect that the individual's allegations will be easily and quickly verified, we will refer the claim to the State agency for consideration under the quick disability determination process pursuant to this section and § 404.1620(c).
(b) If we refer a claim to the State agency for a quick disability determination, a designated quick disability determination examiner must do all of the following:
(1) Subject to the provisions in paragraph (c) of this section, make the disability determination after consulting with a State agency medical or psychological consultant if the State agency disability examiner determines consultation is appropriate or if consultation is required under § 404.1526(c). The State agency may certify the disability determination forms to us without the signature of the medical or psychological consultant.
(2) Make the quick disability determination based only on the medical and nonmedical evidence in the file.
(3) Subject to the provisions in paragraph (c) of this section, make the quick disability determination by applying the rules in subpart P of this part.
(c) If the quick disability determination examiner cannot make a determination that is fully favorable, or if there is an unresolved disagreement between the disability examiner and the medical or psychological consultant (except when a disability examiner makes the determination alone under § 404.1615(c)(3)), the State agency will adjudicate the claim using the regularly applicable procedures in this subpart.
[72 FR 51177, Sept. 6, 2007, as amended at 75 FR 62682, Oct. 13, 2010]

# Administrative Responsibilities and Requirements
§ 404.1620
General administrative requirements.
(a) The State will provide the organizational structure, qualified personnel, medical consultant services, and a quality assurance function sufficient to ensure that disability determinations are made accurately and promptly. We may impose specific administrative requirements in these areas and in those under “Administrative Responsibilities and Requirements” in order to establish uniform, national administrative practices or to correct the areas of deficiencies which may later cause the State to be substantially failing to comply with our regulations or other written guidelines. We will notify the State, in writing, of the administrative requirements being imposed and of any administrative deficiencies it is required to correct. We will allow the State 90 days from the date of this notice to make appropriate corrections. Once corrected, we will monitor the State's administrative practices for 180 days. If the State does not meet the requirements or correct all of the deficiencies, or, if some of the deficiencies recur, we may initiate procedures to determine if the State is substantially failing to follow our regulations or other written guidelines.
(b) The State is responsible for making accurate and prompt disability determinations.
(c) Each State agency will designate experienced disability examiners to handle claims we refer to it under § 404.1619(a).
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 11018, Mar. 14, 1991; 72 FR 51177, Sept. 6, 2007]
§ 404.1621
Personnel.
(a)
Equal employment opportunity.
The State will comply with all applicable Federal statutes, executive orders and regulations concerned with equal employment opportunities.
(b)
Selection, tenure, and compensation.
The State agency will, except as may be inconsistent with paragraph (a) of this section, adhere to applicable State approved personnel standards in the selection, tenure, and compensation of any individual employed in the disability program.
(c)
Travel.
The State will make personnel available to attend meetings or workshops as may be sponsored or approved by us for furthering the purposes of the disability program.
(d)
Restrictions.
Subject to appropriate Federal funding, the State will, to the best of its ability, facilitate the processing of disability claims by avoiding personnel freezes, restrictions against overtime work, or curtailment of facilities or activities.
§ 404.1622
Training.
The State will insure that all employees have an acceptable level of competence. We will provide training and other instructional materials to facilitate basic and advanced technical proficiency of disability staff in order to insure uniformity and effectiveness in the administration of the disability program. We will conduct or specify training, as appropriate, but only if:
(a) A State agency's performance approaches unacceptable levels; or
(b) The material required for the training is complex or the capacity of the State to deliver the training is in doubt and uniformity of the training is essential.
§ 404.1623
Facilities.
(a)
Space, equipment, supplies, and other services.
Subject to appropriate Federal funding, the State will provide adequate space, equipment, supplies, and other services to facilitate making accurate and prompt disability determinations.
(b)
Location of facilities.
Subject to appropriate Federal funding, the State will determine the location where the disability determination function is to be performed so that disability determinations are made accurately and promptly.
(c)
Access.
The State will permit us access to the premises where the disability determination function is performed and also where it is managed for the purposes of inspecting and obtaining information about the work and activities required by our regulations and assuring compliance with pertinent Federal statutes and regulations. Access includes personal onsite
visits and other means, such as telecommunications, of contacting the State agency to obtain information about its functions. We will contact the State agency and give reasonable prior notice of the times and purposes of any visits.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 11019, Mar. 14, 1991]
§ 404.1624
Medical and other purchased services.
The State will determine the rates of payment for purchasing medical or other services necessary to make determinations of disability. The rates may not exceed the highest rate paid by Federal or other agencies in the State for the same or similar type of service. The State will maintain documentation to support the rates of payment it uses.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981,as amended at 71 FR 16445, Mar. 31, 2006; 76 FR 24808, May 3, 2011]
§ 404.1625
Records and reports.
(a) The State will establish and maintain the records and furnish the schedules, financial, cost, and other reports relating to the administration of the disability programs as we may require.
(b) The State will permit us and the Comptroller General of the United States (including duly authorized representatives) access to and the right to examine records relating to the work which the State performs under these regulations. These records will be retained by the State for the periods of time specified for retention of records in the Federal Procurement Regulations (41 CFR parts 1-20).
§ 404.1626
Fiscal.
(a) We will give the State funds, in advance or by way of reimbursement, for necessary costs in making disability determinations under these regulations. Necessary costs are direct as well as indirect costs as defined in 41 CFR part 1-15, subpart 1-15.7 of the Federal Procurement Regulations System for costs incurred before April 1, 1984; and 48 CFR part 31, subpart 31.6 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations System and Federal Management Circular A-74-4
1
as amended or superseded for costs incurred after March 31, 1984.
1
The circular is available from the Office of Administration, Publications Unit, Rm. G-236, New Executive Office Bldg., Washington, DC 20503.
(b) The State will submit estimates of anticipated costs in the form of a budget at the time and in the manner we require.
(c) We will notify the State of the amount which will be made available to it as well as what anticipated costs are being approved.
(d) The State may not incur or make expenditures for items of cost not approved by us or in excess of the amount we make available to the State.
(e) After the close of a period for which funds have been made available to the State, the State will submit a report of its expenditures. Based on an audit arranged by the State under Pub. L. 98-502, the Single Audit Act of 1984, or by the Inspector General of the Social Security Administration or based on an audit or review by the Social Security Administration (see § 404.1627), we will determine whether the expenditures were consistent with cost principles described in 41 CFR part 1-15, subpart 1-15.7 for costs incurred before April 1, 1984; and 48 CFR part 31, subpart 31.6 and Federal Management Circular A-741-4 for costs incurred after March 31, 1984: and in other applicable written guidelines in effect at the time the expenditures were made or incurred.
(f) Any monies paid to the State which are used for purposes not within the scope of these regulations will be paid back to the Treasury of the United States.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 11019, Mar. 14, 1991; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1627
Audits.
(a)
Audits performed by the State
—(1)
Generally.
Audits of accounts and records pertaining to the administration of the disability program under the Act, will be performed by the States in accordance with the Single Audit Act of 1984 (Pub. L. 98-502) which establishes audit requirements for States receiving Federal assistance. If
the audit performed by the State meets our program requirements, we will accept the findings and recommendations of the audit. The State will make every effort to act upon and resolve any items questioned in the audit.
(2)
Questioned items.
Items questioned as a result of an audit under the Single Audit Act of 1984 of a cross-cutting nature will be resolved by the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Grant and Contract Financial Management. A cross-cutting issue is one that involves more than one Federal awarding agency. Questioned items affecting only the disability program will be resolved by SSA in accord with paragraph (b)(2) of this section,
(3)
State appeal of audit determinations.
The Office of Grant and Contract Financial Management will notify the State of its determination on questioned cross-cutting items. If the State disagrees with that determination, it may appeal in writing within 60 days of receiving the determination. State appeals of a cross-cutting issue as a result of an audit under the Single Audit Act of 1984 will be made to the Department of Health and Human Services' Departmental Appeals Board. The rules for hearings and appeals are provided in 45 CFR part 16.
(b)
Audits performed by the Commissioner
—(1)
Generally.
If the State does not perform an audit under the Single Audit Act of 1984 or the audit performed is not satisfactory for disability program purposes, the books of account and records in the State pertaining to the administrations of the disability programs under the Act will be audited by the SSA's Inspector General or audited or reviewed by SSA as appropriate. These audits or reviews will be conducted to determine whether the expenditures were made for the intended purposes and in amounts necessary for the proper and efficient administration of the disability programs. Audits or reviews will also be made to inspect the work and activities required by the regulations to ensure compliance with pertinent Federal statutes and regulations. The State will make every effort to act upon and resolve any items questioned in an audit or review.
(2)
Questioned items.
Expenditures of State agencies will be audited or reviewed, as appropriate, on the basis of cost principles and written guidelines in effect at the time the expenditures were made or incurred. Both the State and the State agency will be informed and given a full explanation of any items questioned. They will be given reasonable time to explain items questioned. Any explanation furnished by the State or State agency will be given full consideration before a final determination is made on the audit or review report.
(3)
State appeal of audit determinations.
The appropriate Social Security Administration Regional Commissioner will notify the State of his or her determination on the audit or review report. If the State disagrees with that determination, the State may request reconsideration in writing within 60 days of the date of the Regional Commissioner's notice of the determination. The written request may be made, through the Associate Commissioner, Office of Disability, to the Commissioner of Social Security, room 900, Altmeyer Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21235. The Commissioner will make a determination and notify the State of the decision in writing no later than 90 days from the date the Social Security Administration receives the State's appeal and all supporting documents. The decision by the Commissioner on other than monetary disallowances will be final and binding upon the State. The decision by the Commissioner on monetary disallowances will be final and binding upon the State unless the State appeals the decision in writing to the Department of Health and Human Services, Departmental Appeals Board within 30 days after receiving the Commissioner's decision. See § 404.1683.
[56 FR 11019, Mar. 14, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1628
Property.
The State will have title to equipment purchased for disability program purposes. The State will be responsible for maintaining all property it acquires or which we furnish to it for performing the disability determination function. The State will identify the
equipment by labeling and by inventory and will credit the SSA account with the fair market value of disposed property.
In the event we assume the disability determination function from a State, ownership of all property and equipment acquired with SSA funds will be transferred to us effective on the date the State is notified that we are assuming the disability determination function or we are notified that the State is terminating the relationship.
§ 404.1629
Participation in research and demonstration projects.
We will invite State participation in federally funded research and demonstration projects to assess the effectiveness of the disability program and to ascertain the effect of program policy changes. Where we determine that State participation is necessary for the project to be complete, for example, to provide national uniformity in a claims process, State participation is mandatory.
§ 404.1630
Coordination with other agencies.
(a) The State will establish cooperative working relationships with other agencies concerned with serving the disabled and, insofar as practicable, use their services, facilities, and records to:
(1) Assist the State in developing evidence and making determinations of disability; and
(2) Insure that referral of disabled or blind persons for rehabilitation services will be carried out effectively.
(b) The State may pay these agencies for the services, facilities, or records they provide. The State will include these costs in its estimates of anticipated costs and reports of actual expenditures.
§ 404.1631
Confidentiality of information and records.
The State will comply with the confidentiality of information, including the security of systems, and records requirements described in 20 CFR part 401 and pertinent written guidelines (see § 404.1633).
§ 404.1632
Other Federal laws and regulations.
The State will comply with the provisions of other Federal laws and regulations that directly affect its responsibilities in carrying out the disability determination function; for example, Treasury Department regulations on letters of credit (31 CFR part 205).
§ 404.1633
Policies and operating instructions.
(a) We will provide the State agency with written guidelines necessary for it to carry out its responsibilities in performing the disability determination function.
(b) The State agency making determinations of disability will comply with our written guidelines that are not designated as advisory or discretionary. (See § 404.1602 for what we mean by written guidelines.)
(c) A representative group of State agencies will be given an opportunity to participate in formulating disability program policies that have an affect on their role in carrying out the disability determination function. State agencies will also be given an opportunity to comment before changes are made in written guidelines unless delay in issuing a change may impair service to the public.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 11020, Mar. 14, 1991]

# Performance Standards
§ 404.1640
General.
The following sections provide the procedures and guidelines we use to determine whether the State agency is substantially complying with our regulations and other written guidelines, including meeting established national performance standards. We use performance standards to help assure effective and uniform administration of our disability programs and to measure whether the performance of the disability determination function by each State agency is acceptable. Also, the standards are designed to improve overall State agency performance in the disability determination process and to ensure that benefits are made available to all eligible persons in an accurate and efficient manner. We
measure the performance of a State agency in two areas—processing time and quality of documentation and decisions on claims. State agency compliance is also judged by State agency adherence to other program requirements.
[56 FR 11020, Mar. 14, 1991]
§ 404.1641
Standards of performance.
(a)
General.
The performance standards include both a target level of performance and a threshold level of performance for the State agency. The target level represents a level of performance that we and the States will work to attain in the future. The threshold level is the minimum acceptable level of performance. Performance below the threshold level will be the basis for the Commissioner's taking from the State agency partial or complete responsibility for performing the disability determination function. Intermediate State agency goals are designed to help each State agency move from its current performance levels to the target levels.
(b)
The target level.
The target level is the optimum level of performance. There are three targets—one for combined title II and title XVI initial performance accuracy, one for title II initial processing time, and one for title XVI initial processing time.
(c)
The threshold level.
The threshold level is the minimum acceptable level of performance. There are three thresholds—one for combined title II and title XVI initial performance accuracy, one for title II initial processing time, and one for title XVI initial processing time.
(d)
Intermediate goals.
Intermediate goals are levels of performance between the threshold levels and the target levels established by our appropriate Regional Commissioner after negotiation with each State agency. The intermediate goals are designed to help the State agencies reach the target levels. Failure to meet these goals is not a cause for considering the State agency to be substantially failing to comply with the performance standards. However, failure to meet the intermediate goals may result in consultation and an offer of optional performance support depending on the availability of our resources.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 11020, Mar. 14, 1991; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1642
Processing time standards.
(a)
General.
Title II processing time refers to the average number of days, including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, it takes a State agency to process an initial disability claim from the day the case folder is received in the State agency until the day it is released to us by the State agency. Title XVI processing time refers to the average number of days, including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, from the day of receipt of the initial disability claim in the State agency until systems input of a presumptive disability decision or the day the case folder is released to us by the State agency, whichever is earlier.
(b)
Target levels.
The processing time target levels are:
(1) 37 days for title II initial claims.
(2) 43 days for title XVI initial claims.
(c)
Threshold levels.
The processing time threshold levels are:
(1) 49.5 days for title II initial claims.
(2) 57.9 days for title XVI initial claims.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 11020, Mar. 14, 1991]
§ 404.1643
Performance accuracy standard.
(a)
General.
Performance accuracy refers to the percentage of cases that do not have to be returned to State agencies for further development or correction of decisions based on evidence in the files and as such represents the reliability of State agency adjudication. The definition of performance accuracy includes the measurement of factors that have a potential for affecting a decision, as well as the correctness of the decision. For example, if a particular item of medical evidence should have been in the file but was not included, even though its inclusion does not change the result in the case, that is a performance error. Performance accuracy, therefore, is a higher standard than decisional accuracy. As a result, the percentage of correct decisions is
significantly higher than what is reflected in the error rate established by SSA's quality assurance system.
(b)
Target level.
The State agency initial performance accuracy target level for combined title II and title XVI cases is 97 percent with a corresponding decision accuracy rate of 99 percent.
(c)
Intermediate goals.
These goals will be established annually by SSA's regional commissioner after negotiation with the State and should be used as stepping stones to progress towards our targeted level of performance.
(d)
Threshold levels.
The State agency initial performance accuracy threshold level for combined title II and title XVI cases is 90.6 percent.
§ 404.1644
How and when we determine whether the processing time standards are met.
(a)
How we determine processing times.
For all initial title II cases, we calculate the mean number of days, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, from the day the case folder is received in the State agency until the day it is released to us by the State agency. For initial title XVI cases, we calculate the mean number of days, including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, from the day the case folder is received in the State agency until the day there is a systems input of a presumptive disability decision or the day the case folder is released to us by the State agency, whichever is earlier.
(b)
Frequency of review.
Title II processing times and title XVI processing times are monitored separately on a quarterly basis. The determination as to whether or not the processing time thresholds have been met is made at the end of each quarter each year. Quarterly State-by-State mean processing times are compared with the threshold levels for both title II and title XVI.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 11020, Mar. 14, 1991]
§ 404.1645
How and when we determine whether the performance accuracy standard is met.
(a)
How we determine performance accuracy.
We determine a State agency's performance accuracy rate on the basis of decision and documentation errors identified in our review of the sample cases.
(b)
Frequency of review.
Title II and title XVI initial performance accuracy are monitored together on a quarterly basis. The determinations as to whether the performance accuracy threshold has been met is made at the end of each quarter each year. Quarterly State-by-State combined initial performance accuracy rates are compared to the established threshold level.
§ 404.1650
Action we will take if a State agency does not meet the standards.
If a State agency does not meet two of the three established threshold levels (one of which must be performance accuracy) for two or more consecutive calendar quarters, we will notify the State agency in writing that it is not meeting the standards. Following our notification, we will provide the State agency appropriate performance support described in §§ 404.1660, 404.1661 and 404.1662 for a period of up to 12 months.
[56 FR 11020, Mar. 14, 1991]

# Performance Monitoring and Support
§ 404.1660
How we will monitor.
We will regularly analyze State agency combined title II and title XVI initial performance accuracy rate, title II initial processing time, and title XVI initial processing time. Within budgeted resources, we will also routinely conduct fiscal and administrative management reviews and special onsite reviews. A fiscal and administrative management review is a fact-finding mission to review particular aspects of State agency operations. During these reviews we will also review the quality assurance function. This regular monitoring and review program will allow us to determine the progress each State is making and the type and extent of performance support we will provide to help the State progress toward threshold, intermediate, and/or target levels.
[56 FR 11020, Mar. 14, 1991]
§ 404.1661
When we will provide performance support.
(a)
Optional support.
We may offer, or a State may request, performance support at any time that the regular monitoring and review process reveals that support could enhance performance. The State does not have to be below the initial performance accuracy rate of 90.6 percent to receive performance support. Support will be offered, or granted upon request, based on available resources.
(b)
Mandatory support.
(1) We will provide a State agency with mandatory performance support if regular monitoring and review reveal that two of three threshold levels (one of which must be performance accuracy) are not met for two consecutive calendar quarters.
(2) We may also decide to provide a State agency with mandatory performance support if regular monitoring and review reveal that any one of the three threshold levels is not met for two consecutive calendar quarters. Support will be provided based on available resources.
(3) The threshold levels are:
(i) Combined title II and title XVI initial performance accuracy rate—90.6 percent,
(ii) Title II initial processing time—49.5 days, and
(iii) Title XVI initial processing time—57.9 days.
[56 FR 11020, Mar. 14, 1991]
§ 404.1662
What support we will provide.
Performance support may include, but is not limited to, any or all of the following:
(a) An onsite review of cases processed by the State agency emphasizing adherence to written guidelines.
(b) A request that necessary administrative measures be implemented (e.g., filling staffing vacancies, using overtime, assisting with training activities, etc.).
(c) Provisions for Federal personnel to perform onsite reviews, conduct training, or perform other functions needed to improve performance.
(d) Provisions for fiscal aid to allow for overtime, temporary hiring of additional staff, etc., above the authorized budget.
[56 FR 11020, Mar. 14, 1991]

# Substantial Failure
§ 404.1670
General.
After a State agency falls below two of three established threshold levels, one being performance accuracy, for two consecutive quarters, and after the mandatory performance support period, we will give the State agency a 3-month adjustment period. During this 3-month period we will not require the State agency to meet the threshold levels. Following the adjustment period, if the State agency again falls below two of three threshold levels, one being performance accuracy, in two consecutive quarters during the next 12 months, we will notify the State that we propose to find that the State agency has substantially failed to comply with our standards and advise it that it may request a hearing on that issue. After giving the State notice and an opportunity for a hearing, if it is found that a State agency has substantially failed to make disability determinations consistent with the Act, our regulations or other written guidelines, we will assume partial or complete responsibility for performing the disability determination function after we have complied with §§ 404.1690 and 404.1692.
[56 FR 11021, Mar. 14, 1991]
§ 404.1671
Good cause for not following the Act, our regulations, or other written guidelines.
If a State has good cause for not following the Act, our regulations, or other written guidelines, we will not find that the State agency has substantially failed to meet our standards. We will determine if good cause exists. Some of the factors relevant to good cause are:
(a) Disasters such as fire, flood, or civil disorder, that—
(1) Require the diversion of significant personnel normally assigned to the disability determination function, or
(2) Destroyed or delayed access to significant records needed to make accurate disability determinations;
(b) Strikes of State agency staff or other government or private personnel necessary to the performance of the disability determination function;
(c) Sudden and unanticipated workload changes which result from changes in Federal law, regulations, or written guidelines, systems modification or systems malfunctions, or rapid, unpredictable caseload growth for a 6-month period or longer.
[56 FR 11021, Mar. 14, 1991]
§ 404.1675
Finding of substantial failure.
A finding of substantial failure with respect to a State may not be made unless and until the State is afforded an opportunity for a hearing.

# Hearings and Appeals
§ 404.1680
Notice of right to hearing on proposed finding of substantial failure.
If, following the mandatory performance support period and the 3-month adjustment period, a State agency again falls below two of three threshold levels (one being performance accuracy) in two consecutive quarters in the succeeding 12 months, we will notify the State in writing that we will find that the State agency has substantially failed to meet our standards unless the State submits a written request for a hearing with the Department of Health and Human Services' Departmental Appeals Board within 30 days after receiving the notice. The notice will identify the threshold levels that were not met by the State agency, the period during which the thresholds were not met and the accuracy and processing time levels attained by the State agency during this period. If a hearing is not requested, the State agency will be found to have substantially failed to meet our standards, and we will implement our plans to assume the disability determination function.
[56 FR 11021, Mar. 14, 1991]
§ 404.1681
Disputes on matters other than substantial failure.
Disputes concerning monetary disallowances will be resolved in proceedings before the Department of Health and Human Services' Departmental Appeals Board if the issue cannot be resolved between us and the State. Disputes other than monetary disallowances will be resolved through an appeal to the Commissioner of Social Security, who will make the final decision. (See § 404.1627.)
[56 FR 11021, Mar. 14, 1991]
§ 404.1682
Who conducts the hearings.
If a hearing is required, it will be conducted by the Department of Health and Human Services' Grant Appeals Board (the Board).
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1683
Hearings and appeals process.
The rules for hearings and appeals before the Board are provided in 45 CFR part 16. A notice under § 404.1680 of this subpart will be considered a “final written decision” for purposes of Board review.

# Assumption of Disability Determination Function
§ 404.1690
Assumption when we make a finding of substantial failure.
(a)
Notice to State.
When we find that substantial failure exists, we will notify the State in writing that we will assume responsibility for performing the disability determination function from the State agency, whether the assumption will be partial or complete, and the date on which the assumption will be effective.
(b)
Effective date of assumption.
The date of any partial or complete assumption of the disability determination function from a State agency may not be earlier than 180 days after our finding of substantial failure, and not before compliance with the requirements of § 404.1692.
§ 404.1691
Assumption when State no longer wishes to perform the disability determination function.
(a)
Notice to the Commissioner.
If a State no longer wishes to perform the disability determination function, it will notify us in writing. The notice must be from an official authorized to act for the State for this purpose. The State will provide an opinion from the
State's Attorney General verifying the authority of the official who gave the notice.
(b)
Effective date of assumption.
The State agency will continue to perform whatever activities of the disability determination function it is performing at the time the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is given for not less than 180 days or, if later, until we have complied with the requirements of § 404.1692. For example, if the State is not making disability determinations (because we previously assumed responsibility for making them) but is performing other activities related to the disability determination function at the time it gives notice, the State will continue to do these activities until the requirements of this paragraph are met. Thereafter, we will assume complete responsibility for performing the disability determination function.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1692
Protection of State employees.
(a)
Hiring preference.
We will develop and initiate procedures to implement a plan to partially or completely assume the disability determination function from the State agency under § 404.1690 or § 404.1691, as appropriate. Except for the State agency's administrator, deputy administrator, or assistant administrator (or his equivalent), we will give employees of the State agency who are capable of performing duties in the disability determination function preference over any other persons in filling positions with us for which they are qualified. We may also give a preference in hiring to the State agency's administrator, deputy administrator, or assistant administrator (or his equivalent). We will establish a system for determining the hiring priority among the affected State agency employees in those instances where we are not hiring all of them.
(b)
Determination by Secretary of Labor.
We will not assume responsibility for performing the disability determination function from a State until the Secretary of Labor determines that the State has made fair and equitable arrangements under applicable Federal, State and local law to protect the interests of employees who will be displaced from their employment because of the assumption and who we will not hire.
§ 404.1693
Limitation on State expenditures after notice.
The State agency may not, after it receives the notice referred to in § 404.1690, or gives the notice referred to in § 404.1691, make any new commitments to spend funds allocated to it for performing the disability determination function without the approval of the appropriate SSA regional commissioner. The State will make every effort to close out as soon as possible all existing commitments that relate to performing the disability determination function.
§ 404.1694
Final accounting by the State.
The State will submit its final claims to us as soon as possible, but in no event later than 1 year from the effective date of our assumption of the disability determination function unless we grant an extension of time. When the final claim(s) is submitted, a final accounting will be made by the State of any funds paid to the State under § 404.1626 which have not been spent or committed prior to the effective date of our assumption of the disability determination function. Disputes concerning final accounting issues which cannot be resolved between the State and us will be resolved in proceedings before the Departmental Appeals Board as described in 45 CFR part 16.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997]

# Subpart R—Representation of Parties

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 405(a), 406, 902(a)(5), and 1320a-6.

# Source:
45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 404.1700
Introduction.
You may appoint someone to represent you in any of your dealings with us. This subpart explains, among other things—
(a) Who may be your representative and what his or her qualifications must be;
(b) How you appoint a representative;
(c) The payment of fees to a representative;
(d) Our rules that representatives must follow; and
(e) What happens to a representative who breaks the rules.
§ 404.1703
Definitions.
As used in this subpart—
Affiliate
means to associate with an entity through our prescribed registration process.
Assignment
means the transfer of the right to receive direct payment of an authorized fee to an entity as described in § 404.1730(e).
Date we notify him or her
means 5 days after the date on the notice, unless the recipient shows us that he or she did not receive it within the 5-day period.
Eligible non-attorney
means a non-attorney representative who we determine is qualified to receive direct payment of his or her fee under § 404.1717(a).
Entity
means any business, firm, or other association, including but not limited to partnerships, corporations, for-profit organizations, and not-for-profit organizations.
Federal agency
refers to any authority of the Executive branch of the Government of the United States.
Federal program
refers to any program established by an Act of Congress or administered in whole or in part by a Federal agency.
Legal guardian or court-appointed representative
means a court-appointed person, committee, or conservator who is responsible for taking care of and managing the property and rights of an individual who is considered incapable of managing his or her own affairs.
Past-due benefits
means the total amount of benefits under title II of the Act that has accumulated to all beneficiaries because of a favorable administrative or judicial determination or decision, up to but not including the month the determination or decision is made. For purposes of calculating fees for representation, we determine past-due benefits before any applicable reduction under section 1127 of the Act (for receipt of benefits for the same period under title XVI). Past-due benefits do not include:
(1) Continued benefits paid pursuant to § 404.1597a of this part; or
(2) Interim benefits paid pursuant to section 223(h) of the Act.
Point of Contact
means an individual who registers as a representative in the manner we prescribe and is selected by an entity to speak and act on the entity's behalf and who assumes the affirmative duties and obligations we prescribe.
Registration
means a process by which an individual or entity provides the information we require to conduct business with us.
Representational services
means services performed for a claimant in connection with any claim the claimant has before us, any asserted right the claimant may have for an initial or reconsidered determination, and any decision or action by an administrative law judge or the Appeals Council.
Representative
means an attorney who meets all of the requirements of § 404.1705(a), or a person other than an attorney who meets all of the requirements of § 404.1705(b), and whom you appoint to represent you in dealings with us. For purposes of our Rules of conduct and standards of responsibility for representatives in §§ 404.1740 through 404.1799, Representative also includes an individual who provides representational services and an individual who is listed as a point of contact for an entity, as applicable to their identified role.
We, our,
or
us
refers to the Social Security Administration.
You
or
your
refers to any person claiming a right under the old-age, disability, dependents', or survivors' benefits program.
[45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 72 FR 16724, Apr. 5, 2007; 74 FR 48384, Sept. 23, 2009; 76 FR 45192, July 28, 2011; 76 FR 80245, Dec. 23, 2011; 89 FR 67554, Aug. 21, 2024]
§ 404.1705
Who may be your representative.
(a) You may appoint as your representative in dealings with us, any attorney in good standing who—
(1) Has the right to practice law before a court of a State, Territory, District, or island possession of the United States, or before the Supreme Court or a lower Federal court of the United States;
(2) Is not disqualified or suspended from acting as a representative in dealings with us; and
(3) Is not prohibited by any law from acting as a representative.
(b) You may appoint any person who is not an attorney to be your representative in dealings with us if the person—
(1) Is capable of giving valuable help to you in connection with your claim;
(2) Is not disqualified or suspended from acting as a representative in dealings with us;
(3) Is not prohibited by any law from acting as a representative; and
(4) Is generally known to have a good character and reputation. Persons lacking good character and reputation, include, but are not limited to, persons who have a final conviction of a felony (as defined by § 404.1506(c)) or any crime involving moral turpitude, dishonesty, false statements, misrepresentation, deceit, or theft.
(c) Your representative(s) must be registered with us in the manner we prescribe.
(d) We may refuse to recognize your chosen representative if the person does not meet the requirements in this section. We will notify you and the proposed representative if we do not recognize the person as your representative.
[45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 76 FR 80245, Dec. 23, 2011; 83 FR 30854, July 2, 2018; 89 FR 67554, Aug. 21, 2024]
§ 404.1706
Notification of options for obtaining attorney representation.
If you are not represented by an attorney and we make a determination or decision that is subject to the administrative review process provided under subpart J of this part and it does not grant all of the benefits or other relief you requested or it adversely affects any entitlement to benefits that we have established or may establish for you, we will include with the notice of that determination or decision information about your options for obtaining an attorney to represent you in dealing with us. We will also tell you that a legal services organization may provide you with legal representation free of charge if you satisfy the qualifying requirements applicable to that organization.
[58 FR 64886, Dec. 10, 1993]
§ 404.1707
Appointing a representative.
We will recognize a person as your representative if:
(a) You and your representative complete and sign our prescribed appointment form; and
(b) You or your representative file our prescribed appointment form in the manner we designate.
[89 FR 67554, Aug. 21, 2024]
§ 404.1710
Authority of a representative.
(a)
What a representative may do.
Your representative may, on your behalf—
(1) Obtain information about your claim to the same extent that you are able to do;
(2) Submit evidence;
(3) Make statements about facts and law; and
(4) Make any request or give any notice about the proceedings before us.
(b)
What a representative may not do.
A representative may not sign an application on behalf of a claimant for rights or benefits under title II of the Act unless authorized to do so under § 404.612.
§ 404.1713
Mandatory use of electronic services.
A representative must conduct business with us electronically at the times and in the manner we prescribe on matters for which the representative requests direct fee payment. (
See
§ 404.1740(b)(4)).
[76 FR 56109, Sept. 12, 2011]
§ 404.1715
Notice or request to a representative.
(a) We shall send your representative—
(1) Notice and a copy of any administrative action, determination, or decision; and
(2) Requests for information or evidence.
(b) A notice or request sent to your representative, will have the same
force and effect as if it had been sent to you.
§ 404.1717
Direct payment of fees to eligible non-attorney representatives.
(a)
Criteria for eligibility.
An individual who is a licensed attorney or who is suspended or disbarred from the practice of law in any jurisdiction may not be an eligible non-attorney. A non-attorney representative is eligible to receive direct payment of his or her fee out of your past-due benefits if he or she:
(1) Completes and submits to us an application as described in paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Pays the application fee as described in paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) Demonstrates that he or she possesses:
(i) A bachelor's degree from an accredited institution of higher learning; or
(ii) At least four years of relevant professional experience and either a high school diploma or a General Educational Development certificate;
(4) Passes our criminal background investigation (including checks of our administrative records), and attests under penalty of perjury that he or she:
(i) Has not been suspended or disqualified from practice before us and is not suspended or disbarred from the practice of law in any jurisdiction;
(ii) Has not had a judgment or lien assessed against him or her by a civil court for malpractice or fraud;
(iii) Has not had a felony conviction; and
(iv) Has not misrepresented information provided on his or her application or supporting materials for the application;
(5) Takes and passes a written examination we administer;
(6) Provides proof of and maintains continuous liability insurance coverage that is underwritten by an entity that is legally permitted to provide professional liability insurance in the States in which the representative conducts business. The policy must include coverage for malpractice claims against the representative and be in an amount we prescribe; and
(7) Completes and provides proof that he or she has completed all continuing education courses that we prescribe by the deadline we prescribe.
(b)
Application.
An applicant must timely submit his or her completed application form during an application period that we prescribe. The application must be postmarked by the last day of the application period. If an applicant timely submits the application fee and a defective application, we will give the applicant 10 calendar days after the date we notify him or her of the defect to correct the application.
(c)
Application fee.
An applicant must timely submit his or her application fee during the application period. We will set the fee annually.
(1) We will refund the fee if:
(i) We do not administer an examination, and an applicant was unable to take the rescheduled examination; or
(ii) Circumstances beyond the applicant's control that could not have been reasonably anticipated and planned for prevent an applicant from taking a scheduled examination.
(2) We will not refund the fee if:
(i) An applicant took and failed the examination; or
(ii) An applicant failed to arrive on time for the examination because of circumstances within the applicant's control that could have been anticipated and planned for.
(d)
Protest procedures.
(1) We may find that a non-attorney representative is ineligible to receive direct fee payment at any time because he or she fails to meet any of the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section. A non-attorney representative whom we find to be ineligible for direct fee payment may protest our finding only if we based it on the representative's failure to:
(i) Attest on the application or provide sufficient documentation that he or she possesses the required education or equivalent qualifications, as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(ii) Meet at all times the criminal background investigation criteria, as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section;
(iii) Provide proof that he or she has maintained continuous liability insurance coverage, as described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, after we
previously determined the representative was eligible to receive direct fee payment; or
(iv) Complete continuing education courses or provide documentation of the required continuing education courses, as described in paragraph (a)(7) of this section.
(2) A non-attorney representative who wants to protest our finding under paragraph (d)(1) of this section must file a protest in writing and provide all relevant supporting documentation to us within 10 calendar days after the date we notify him or her of our finding.
(3) A representative may not file a protest for reasons other than those listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. If a representative files a protest for reasons other than those listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, we will not process the protest and will implement our finding as if no protest had been filed. Our finding in response to the protest is final and not subject to further review.
(e)
Ineligibility and suspension.
(1) If an applicant does not protest, in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, our finding about the criteria in paragraphs (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section, the applicant will be either ineligible to take the written examination for which he or she applied or ineligible to receive direct fee payment if the applicant already took and passed the examination prior to our finding. If an applicant protests in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section and we uphold our finding, the applicant will be either ineligible to take the written examination for which he or she applied or ineligible to receive direct fee payment if the applicant already took and passed the examination prior to our finding.
(2) If an eligible non-attorney representative does not protest, in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, our finding about the criteria in paragraphs (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section, the non-attorney representative will be ineligible to receive direct fee payment beginning with the month after the month the protest period ends. If the eligible non-attorney representative protests in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section and we uphold our finding, the non-attorney representative will be ineligible to receive direct fee payment beginning with the month after the month we uphold our finding.
(3) If an eligible non-attorney representative does not protest, in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, our finding about the criteria in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the non-attorney representative will be ineligible to receive direct fee payment for 6 full calendar months beginning with the month after the month the protest period ends. If the eligible non-attorney representative protests in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section and we uphold our finding, the non-attorney representative will be ineligible to receive direct fee payment for 6 full calendar months beginning with the month after the month we uphold our finding. In either case, the non-attorney representative may provide us with documentation that he or she has acquired and maintains the required liability insurance coverage described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, no earlier than the sixth month of the ineligibility. The non-attorney representative will again be eligible to receive direct fee payment beginning in the first month after the month we find that we have received sufficient documentation that the non-attorney representative meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
(4) If an eligible non-attorney representative does not protest, in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, our finding about the criteria in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, the non-attorney representative will be ineligible to receive direct fee payment for 6 full calendar months beginning with the month after the month the protest period ends. If the eligible non-attorney representative protests in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section and we uphold our finding, the non-attorney will be ineligible to receive direct fee payment for 6 full calendar months beginning with the month after the month we uphold our finding. In either case, the non-attorney representative may provide us with documentation that he or she has satisfied the criteria in paragraph (a)(7) of
this section at any time. The non-attorney representative will again be eligible to receive direct fee payment beginning in the first month after the month we find that we have received sufficient documentation, but not earlier than the month following the end of the 6 month ineligibility period.
(f)
Reapplying.
A representative may reapply to become eligible to receive direct fee payment under paragraph (a) of this section during any subsequent application period if he or she:
(1) Did not meet the initial criteria for eligibility in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(5) of this section in a prior application period; or
(2) Failed to timely correct a defective application in a prior application period, as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
[76 FR 45192, July 28, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 400, Jan. 6, 2015]
§ 404.1720
Fee for a representative's services.
(a)
General.
A representative may charge and receive a fee for his or her services as a representative only as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Charging and receiving a fee.
(1) The representative must file a written request with us before he or she may charge or receive a fee for his or her services.
(2) We decide the amount of the fee, if any, a representative may charge or receive.
(3) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, a representative must not charge or receive any fee unless we have authorized it, and a representative must not charge or receive any fee that is more than the amount we authorize.
(4) If your representative is an attorney or an eligible non-attorney, and you are entitled to past-due benefits, we will pay the authorized fee, or a part of the authorized fee, directly to the attorney or eligible non-attorney out of the past-due benefits, subject to the limitations described in § 404.1730(b)(1). If the representative is a non-attorney who is ineligible to receive direct fee payment, we assume no responsibility for the payment of any fee that we have authorized.
(c)
Notice of fee determination.
We shall mail to both you and your representative at your last known address a written notice of what we decide about the fee. We shall state in the notice—
(1) The amount of the fee that is authorized;
(2) How we made that decision;
(3) Whether we are responsible for paying the fee from past-due benefits; and
(4) That within 30 days of the date of the notice, either you or your representative may request us to review the fee determination.
(d)
Review of fee determination
—(1)
Request filed on time.
We will review the decision we made about a fee if either you or your representative files a written request for the review at one of our offices within 30 days after the date of the notice of the fee determination. Either you or your representative, whoever requests the review, shall mail a copy of the request to the other person. An authorized official of the Social Security Administration who did not take part in the fee determination being questioned will review the determination. This determination is not subject to further review. The official shall mail a written notice of the decision made on review both to you and to your representative at your last known address.
(2)
Request not filed on time.
(i) If you or your representative requests a review of the decision we made about a fee, but does so more than 30 days after the date of the notice of the fee determination, whoever makes the request shall state in writing why it was not filed within the 30-day period. We will review the determination if we decide that there was good cause for not filing the request on time.
(ii) Some examples of good cause follow:
(A) Either you or your representative was seriously ill and the illness prevented you or your representative from contacting us in person or in writing.
(B) There was a death or serious illness in your family or in the family of your representative.
(C) Material records were destroyed by fire or other accidental cause.
(D) We gave you or your representative incorrect or incomplete information about the right to request review.
(E) You or your representative did not timely receive notice of the fee determination.
(F) You or your representative sent the request to another government agency in good faith within the 30-day period, and the request did not reach us until after the period had ended.
(3)
Payment of fees.
We assume no responsibility for the payment of a fee based on a revised determination if the request for administrative review was not filed on time.
(e)
When we do not need to authorize a fee.
We do not need to authorize a fee when:
(1) An entity or a Federal, State, county, or city government agency pays from its funds the representative fees and expenses and both of the following conditions apply:
(i) You and your auxiliary beneficiaries, if any, are not liable to pay a fee or any expenses, or any part thereof, directly or indirectly, to the representative or someone else; and
(ii) The representative submits to us a writing in the form and manner that we prescribe waiving the right to charge and collect a fee and any expenses from you and your auxiliary beneficiaries, if any, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part; or
(2) A court authorizes a fee for your representative based on the representative's actions as your legal guardian or a court-appointed representative.
(f)
Assignment of direct payment of fees.
A representative who is eligible for direct payment of an authorized fee may assign direct payment of the authorized fee to an entity that is eligible for direct payment of fees (see §§ 404.1730(e) and 404.1735).
[45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 72 FR 16724, Apr. 5, 2007; 74 FR 48384, Sept. 23, 2009; 76 FR 45193, July 28, 2011; 89 FR 67554, Aug. 21, 2024]
§ 404.1725
Request for approval of a fee.
(a)
Filing a request.
In order for your representative to obtain approval of a fee for services he or she performed in dealings with us, he or she shall file a written request with one of our offices. This should be done after the proceedings in which he or she was a representative are completed. The request must contain—
(1) The dates the representative's services began and ended;
(2) A list of the services he or she gave and the amount of time he or she spent on each type of service;
(3) The amount of the fee he or she wants to charge for the services;
(4) The amount of fee the representative wants to request or charge for his or her services in the same matter before any State or Federal court;
(5) The amount of and a list of any expenses the representative incurred for which he or she has been paid or expects to be paid;
(6) A description of the special qualifications which enabled the representative, if he or she is not an attorney, to give valuable help in connection with your claim; and
(7) A statement showing that the representative sent a copy of the request for approval of a fee to you.
(b)
Evaluating a request for approval of a fee.
(1) When we evaluate a representative's request for approval of a fee, we consider the purpose of the social security program, which is to provide a measure of economic security for the beneficiaries of the program, together with—
(i) The extent and type of services the representative performed;
(ii) The complexity of the case;
(iii) The level of skill and competence required of the representative in giving the services;
(iv) The amount of time the representative spent on the case;
(v) The results the representative achieved;
(vi) The level of review to which the claim was taken and the level of the review at which the representative became your representative; and
(vii) The amount of fee the representative requests for his or her services, including any amount authorized or requested before, but not including the amount of any expenses he or she incurred.
(2) Although we consider the amount of benefits, if any, that are payable, we do not base the amount of fee we authorize on the amount of the benefit
alone, but on a consideration of all the factors listed in this section. The benefits payable in any claim are determined by specific provisions of law and are unrelated to the efforts of the representative. We may authorize a fee even if no benefits are payable.
§ 404.1728
Proceedings before a State or Federal court.
(a)
Representation of a party in court proceedings.
We shall not consider any service the representative gave you in any proceeding before a State or Federal court to be services as a representative in dealings with us. However, if the representative also has given service to you in the same connection in any dealings with us, he or she must specify what, if any, portion of the fee he or she wants to charge is for services performed in dealings with us. If the representative charges any fee for those services, he or she must file the request and furnish all of the information required by § 404.1725.
(b)
Attorney fee allowed by a Federal court.
If a Federal court in any proceeding under title II of the Act makes a judgment in favor of a claimant who was represented before the court by an attorney, and the court, under section 206(b) of the Act, allows to the attorney as part of its judgment a fee not in excess of 25 percent of the total of past-due benefits to which the claimant is entitled by reason of the judgment, we may pay the attorney the amount of the fee out of, but not in addition to, the amount of the past-due benefits payable. We will not certify for direct payment any other fee your representative may request.
§ 404.1730
Payment of fees.
(a)
Fees allowed by a Federal court.
We will pay an attorney representative out of your past-due benefits the amount of the fee allowed by a Federal court in a proceeding under title II of the Act. The payment we make to the attorney is subject to the limitations described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(b)
Fees we may pay
—(1)
Attorneys and eligible non-attorneys.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if we make a determination or decision in your favor and you were represented by an attorney or an eligible non-attorney (see § 404.1717), and as a result of the determination or decision you have past-due benefits;
(i) We will pay your representative out of the past-due benefits the lesser of the amounts in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) or (iv) of this section, less the amount of the assessment described in paragraph (d) of this section, unless the representative files a waiver of the fee or direct payment of the fee; and
(ii) If there is a valid assignment (see paragraph (e) of this section), we will pay the representative's fee (see paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) to an entity.
(iii) Twenty-five percent of the total of the past-due benefits; or
(iv) The amount of the fee that we set.
(2)
Non-attorneys ineligible for direct payment.
If the representative is a non-attorney who is ineligible to receive direct payment of his or her fee, we assume no responsibility for the payment of any fee that we authorized. We will not deduct the fee from your past-due benefits.
(c)
Time limit for filing request for approval of fee to obtain direct payment.
(1) To receive direct fee payment from your past-due benefits, a representative who is an attorney or an eligible non-attorney should file a request for approval of a fee, or written notice of the intent to file a request, at one of our offices, or electronically at the times and in the manner that we prescribe if we give notice that such a method is available, within 60 days of the date we mail the notice of the favorable determination or decision.
(2)(i) If no request is filed within 60 days of the date the notice of the favorable determination is mailed, we will mail a written notice to you and your representative at your last known addresses. The notice will inform you and the representative that unless the representative files, within 20 days from the date of the notice, a written request for approval of a fee under § 404.1725, or a written request for an extension of time, we will pay all the past-due benefits to you.
(ii) The representative must send you a copy of any request made to us for an extension of time. If the request is not filed within 20 days of the date of the
notice, or by the last day of any extension we approved, we will pay all past-due benefits to you. We must approve any fee the representative charges after that time, but the collection of any approved fee is a matter between you and the representative.
(d)
Assessment when we pay a fee directly to a representative.
(1) Whenever we pay a fee directly to a representative from past-due benefits, we impose an assessment on the representative.
(2) The amount of the assessment is equal to the lesser of:
(i) The product we obtain by multiplying the amount of the fee we are paying to the representative by the percentage rate the Commissioner of Social Security determines is necessary to achieve full recovery of the costs of determining and paying fees directly to representatives, but not in excess of 6.3 percent; and
(ii) The maximum assessment amount. The maximum assessment amount was initially set at $75, but by law is adjusted annually to reflect the increase in the cost of living. (See §§ 404.270 through 404.277 for an explanation of how the cost-of-living adjustment is computed.) If the adjusted amount is not a multiple of $1, we round down the amount to the next lower $1, but the amount will not be less than $75. We will announce any increase in the maximum assessment amount and explain how the increase was determined in the
Federal Register.
(3) We collect the assessment by subtracting it from the amount of the fee to be paid to the representative. The representative who is subject to an assessment may not, directly or indirectly, request or otherwise obtain reimbursement of the assessment from you.
(e)
Assignment of direct payment of a fee to designated entity.
(1) A representative may assign direct payment of the fee we authorize to an eligible entity if the representative:
(i) Is eligible for direct payment;
(ii) Has not waived the fee or direct payment;
(iii) Assigns direct payment of the entire fee we authorize to one entity in the manner we prescribe;
(iv) Makes the assignment before the date on which we notify you of our first favorable determination or decision; and
(v) Affiliates with the entity through registration.
(2) A representative may rescind an assignment in the manner we prescribe before the date on which we notify you of our first favorable determination or decision.
(3) A representative may not assign direct payment of a fee to an entity that is ineligible to receive direct payment.
(4) A representative may not waive a fee or direct payment of a fee if the representative previously assigned direct payment of a fee in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section and did not timely rescind that assignment in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
[72 FR 16724, Apr. 5, 2007, as amended at 76 FR 45193, July 28, 2011; 89 FR 67554, Aug. 21, 2024]
§ 404.1735
Entity eligible for direct payment of fees.
An entity is eligible for direct payment of an authorized fee if the entity:
(a) Has an Employer Identification Number;
(b) Has registered with us in the manner we prescribe;
(c) Has not been found ineligible for direct payment;
(d) Designates and maintains an employee who is registered as a representative in the manner we prescribe as a point of contact to speak and act on the entity's behalf;
(e) Accepts payment via electronic funds transfer; and
(f) Conforms to our rules.
[89 FR 67555, Aug. 21, 2024]
§ 404.1740
Rules of conduct and standards of responsibility for representatives.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
(1) All attorneys or other persons acting on behalf of a party seeking a statutory right or benefit must, in their dealings with us, faithfully execute their duties as agents and fiduciaries of a party. A representative must provide competent
assistance to the claimant and recognize our authority to lawfully administer the process. The following provisions set forth certain affirmative duties and prohibited actions that will govern the relationship between the representative and us, including matters involving our administrative procedures and fee collections.
(2) All representatives must be forthright in their dealings with us and with the claimant and must comport themselves with due regard for the nonadversarial nature of the proceedings by complying with our rules and standards, which are intended to ensure orderly and fair presentation of evidence and argument.
(b)
Affirmative duties.
A representative must, in conformity with the regulations setting forth our existing duties and responsibilities and those of claimants (see § 404.1512 in disability and blindness claims):
(1) Act with reasonable promptness to help obtain the information or evidence that the claimant must submit under our regulations, and forward the information or evidence to us for consideration as soon as practicable.
(2) Assist the claimant in complying, as soon as practicable, with our requests for information or evidence at any stage of the administrative decisionmaking process in his or her claim. In disability and blindness claims, this includes the obligation pursuant to § 404.1512(c) to assist the claimant in providing, upon our request, evidence about:
(i) The claimant's medical source(s);
(ii) The claimant's age;
(iii) The claimant's education and training;
(iv) The claimant's work experience;
(v) The claimant's daily activities both before and after the date the claimant alleges that he or she became disabled;
(vi) The claimant's efforts to work; and
(vii) Any other factors showing how the claimant's impairment(s) affects his or her ability to work. In §§ 404.1560 through 404.1569a, we discuss in more detail the evidence we need when we consider vocational factors.
(3) Conduct his or her dealings in a manner that furthers the efficient, fair, and orderly conduct of the administrative decision-making process, including duties to:
(i) Provide competent representation to a claimant. Competent representation requires the knowledge, skill, thoroughness, and preparation reasonably necessary for the representation. A representative must know the significant issue(s) in a claim, have reasonable and adequate familiarity with the evidence in the case, and have a working knowledge of the applicable provisions of the Social Security Act, as amended, the regulations, the Social Security Rulings, and any other applicable provisions of law.
(ii) Act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a claimant. This includes providing prompt and responsive answers to our requests for information pertinent to processing of the claim.
(iii) When requested, provide us, in a manner we specify, potential dates and times that the representative will be available for a hearing. We will inform the representative how many potential dates and times we require to coordinate the hearing schedule.
(iv) Only withdraw representation at a time and in a manner that does not disrupt the processing or adjudication of a claim and that provides the claimant adequate time to find new representation, if desired. A representative should not withdraw after we set the time and place for the hearing (see § 404.936) unless the representative can show that a withdrawal is necessary due to extraordinary circumstances, as we determine on a case-by-case basis.
(v) Maintain prompt and timely communication with the claimant, which includes, but is not limited to, reasonably informing the claimant of all matters concerning the representation, consulting with the claimant on an ongoing basis during the entire representational period, and promptly responding to a claimant's reasonable requests for information. When we evaluate whether a representative has maintained prompt and timely communication with the claimant, we will consider the difficulty the representative has in locating a particular claimant (e.g., because the claimant is homeless)
and the representative's efforts to keep that claimant informed.
(4) Conduct business with us electronically at the times and in the manner we prescribe on matters for which the representative requests direct fee payment. (
See
§ 404.1713).
(5) Disclose in writing, at the time a medical or vocational opinion is submitted to us or as soon as the representative is aware of the submission to us, if:
(i) The representative's employee or any individual contracting with the representative drafted, prepared, or issued the medical or vocational opinion; or
(ii) The representative referred or suggested that the claimant seek an examination from, treatment by, or the assistance of, the individual providing opinion evidence.
(6) Disclose to us immediately if the representative discovers that his or her services are or were used by the claimant to commit fraud against us.
(7) Disclose to us whether the representative is or has been disbarred or suspended from any bar or court to which he or she was previously admitted to practice, including instances in which a bar or court took administrative action to disbar or suspend the representative in lieu of disciplinary proceedings (e.g., acceptance of voluntary resignation pending disciplinary action). If the disbarment or suspension occurs after the appointment of the representative, the representative will immediately disclose the disbarment or suspension to us.
(8) Disclose to us whether the representative is or has been disqualified from participating in or appearing before any Federal program or agency, including instances in which a Federal program or agency took administrative action to disqualify the representative in lieu of disciplinary proceedings (e.g., acceptance of voluntary resignation pending disciplinary action). If the disqualification occurs after the appointment of the representative, the representative will immediately disclose the disqualification to us.
(9) Disclose to us whether the representative has been removed from practice or suspended by a professional licensing authority for reasons that reflect on the person's character, integrity, judgment, reliability, or fitness to serve as a fiduciary. If the removal or suspension occurs after the appointment of the representative, the representative will immediately disclose the removal or suspension to us.
(10) Ensure that all of the representative's employees, assistants, partners, contractors, or any person assisting the representative on claims for which the representative has been appointed, comply with these rules of conduct and standards of responsibility for representatives, when the representative has managerial or supervisory authority over these individuals or otherwise has responsibility to oversee their work. This includes a duty to take remedial action when:
(i) The representative's employees, assistants, partners, contractors or other individuals' conduct violates these rules of conduct and standards of responsibility; and
(ii) The representative has reason to believe a violation of these rules of conduct and standards of responsibility occurred or will occur.
(c)
Prohibited actions.
A representative must not:
(1) In any manner or by any means threaten, coerce, intimidate, deceive or knowingly mislead a claimant, or prospective claimant or beneficiary, regarding benefits or other rights under the Act. This prohibition includes misleading a claimant, or prospective claimant or beneficiary, about the representative's services and qualifications.
(2) Knowingly charge, collect or retain, or make any arrangement to charge, collect or retain, from any source, directly or indirectly, any fee for representational services in violation of applicable law or regulation. This prohibition includes soliciting any gift or any other item of value, other than what is authorized by law.
(3) Make or present, or participate in the making or presentation of, false or misleading oral or written statements, evidence, assertions, or representations about a material fact or law concerning a matter within our jurisdiction, in matters where the representative knows or should have known that those statements, evidence, assertions,
or representations are false or misleading.
(4) Through his or her own actions or omissions, unreasonably delay or cause to be delayed, without good cause (see § 404.911(b)), the processing of a claim at any stage of the administrative decision-making process.
(5) Divulge, without the claimant's consent, except as may be authorized by regulations prescribed by us or as otherwise provided by Federal law, any information we furnish or disclose about a claim or prospective claim.
(6) Attempt to influence, directly or indirectly, the outcome of a decision, determination, or other administrative action by any means prohibited by law, or by offering or granting a loan, gift, entertainment, or anything of value to a presiding official, agency employee, or witness who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the administrative decision-making process, except as reimbursement for legitimately incurred expenses or lawful compensation for the services of an expert witness retained on a non-contingency basis to provide evidence.
(7) Engage in actions or behavior prejudicial to the fair and orderly conduct of administrative proceedings, including but not limited to:
(i) Repeated absences from or persistent tardiness at scheduled proceedings without good cause (see § 404.911(b));
(ii) Behavior that has the effect of improperly disrupting proceedings or obstructing the adjudicative process, including but not limited to:
(A) Directing threatening or intimidating language, gestures, or actions at a presiding official, witness, contractor, or agency employee;
(B) Providing misleading information or misrepresenting facts that affect how we process a claim, including, but not limited to, information relating to the claimant's work activity or the claimant's place of residence or mailing address in matters where the representative knows or should have known that the information was misleading and the facts would constitute a misrepresentation; and
(C) Communicating with agency staff or adjudicators outside the normal course of business or other prescribed procedures in an attempt to inappropriately influence the processing or outcome of a claim(s).
(8) Violate any section of the Act for which a criminal or civil monetary penalty is prescribed.
(9) Refuse to comply with any of our rules or regulations.
(10) Suggest, assist, or direct another person to violate our rules or regulations.
(11) Advise any claimant or beneficiary not to comply with any of our rules or regulations.
(12) Knowingly assist a person whom we suspended or disqualified to provide representational services in a proceeding under title II of the Act, or to exercise the authority of a representative described in § 404.1710.
(13) Fail to comply with our sanction(s) decision.
(14) Fail to oversee the representative's employees, assistants, partners, contractors, or any other person assisting the representative on claims for which the representative has been appointed when the representative has managerial or supervisory authority over these individuals or otherwise has responsibility to oversee their work.
(15) While serving as a point of contact for an entity, violate applicable affirmative duties, engage in prohibited actions, or conduct dealings with us in a manner that is untruthful or does not further the efficient and prompt correction of a fee error.
[63 FR 41416, Aug. 4, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 56109, Sept. 12, 2011; 76 FR 80245, Dec. 23, 2011; 80 FR 14837, Mar. 20, 2015; 83 FR 30854, July 2, 2018; 89 FR 67555, Aug. 21, 2024]
§ 404.1745
Violations of our requirements, rules, or standards.
When we have evidence that a representative fails to meet our qualification requirements or has violated the rules governing dealings with us, we may begin proceedings to suspend or disqualify that individual from acting in a representational capacity before us. We may file charges seeking such sanctions when we have evidence that a representative:
(a) Does not meet the qualifying requirements described in § 404.1705;
(b) Has violated the affirmative duties or engaged in the prohibited actions set forth in § 404.1740;
(c) Has been convicted of a violation under section 206 of the Act;
(d) Has been, by reason of misconduct, disbarred or suspended from any bar or court to which he or she was previously admitted to practice (see § 404.1770(a));
(e) Has been, by reason of misconduct, disqualified from participating in or appearing before any Federal program or agency (see § 404.1770(a)); or
(f) Who, as a non-attorney, has been removed from practice or suspended by a professional licensing authority for reasons that reflect on the person's character, integrity, judgment, reliability, or fitness to serve as a fiduciary.
[63 FR 41416, Aug. 4, 1998, as amended at 71 FR 2876, Jan. 18, 2006; 83 FR 30855, July 2, 2018]
§ 404.1750
Notice of charges against a representative.
(a) The General Counsel or other delegated official will prepare a notice containing a statement of charges that constitutes the basis for the proceeding against the representative.
(b) We will send this notice to the representative either by certified or registered mail, to his or her last known address, or by personal delivery.
(c) We will advise the representative to file an answer, within 14 business days from the date of the notice, or from the date the notice was delivered personally, stating why he or she should not be suspended or disqualified from acting as a representative in dealings with us.
(d) The General Counsel or other delegated official may extend the 14-day period specified in paragraph (c) of this section for good cause, in accordance with § 404.911.
(e) The representative must—
(1) Answer the notice in writing under oath (or affirmation); and
(2) File the answer with the Social Security Administration, at the address specified on the notice, within the 14-day time period specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(f) If the representative does not file an answer within the 14-day time period specified in paragraph (c) of this section (or the period extended in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section), he or she does not have the right to present evidence, except as may be provided in § 404.1765(g).
[45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 56 FR 24131, May 29, 1991; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997; 63 FR 41417, Aug. 4, 1998; 71 FR 2876, Jan. 18, 2006; 76 FR 80246, Dec. 23, 2011; 83 FR 30855, July 2, 2018]
§ 404.1755
Withdrawing charges against a representative.
The General Counsel or other delegated official may withdraw charges against a representative. We will withdraw charges if the representative files an answer, or we obtain evidence, that satisfies us that we should not suspend or disqualify the representative from acting as a representative. When we consider withdrawing charges brought under § 404.1745(d) through (f) based on the representative's assertion that, before or after our filing of charges, the representative has been reinstated to practice by the court, bar, or Federal program or Federal agency that suspended, disbarred, or disqualified the representative, the General Counsel or other delegated official will determine whether such reinstatement occurred, whether it remains in effect, and whether he or she is reasonably satisfied that the representative will in the future act in accordance with the provisions of section 206(a) of the Act and our rules and regulations. If the representative proves that reinstatement occurred and remains in effect and the General Counsel or other delegated official is so satisfied, the General Counsel or other delegated official will withdraw those charges. The action of the General Counsel or other delegated official regarding withdrawal of charges is solely that of the General Counsel or other delegated official and is not reviewable, or subject to consideration in decisions made under §§ 404.1770 and 404.1790. If we withdraw the charges, we will notify the representative by mail at the representative's last known address.
[83 FR 30855, July 2, 2018]
§ 404.1765
Hearing on charges.
(a)
Holding the hearing.
If the General Counsel or other delegated official does not take action to withdraw the charges within 15 days after the date on which the representative filed an answer, we will hold a hearing and make a decision on the charges.
(b)
Hearing officer.
(1) The Deputy Commissioner for the Office of Hearings Operations or other delegated official will assign an administrative law judge, designated to act as a hearing officer, to hold a hearing on the charges.
(2) No hearing officer shall hold a hearing in a case in which he or she is prejudiced or partial about any party, or has any interest in the matter.
(3) If the representative or any party to the hearing objects to the hearing officer who has been named to hold the hearing, we must be notified at the earliest opportunity. The hearing officer shall consider the objection(s) and either proceed with the hearing or withdraw from it.
(4) If the hearing officer withdraws from the hearing, another one will be named.
(5) If the hearing officer does not withdraw, the representative or any other person objecting may, after the hearing, present his or her objections to the Appeals Council explaining why he or she believes the hearing officer's decision should be revised or a new hearing held by another administrative law judge designated to act as a hearing officer.
(c)
Time and place of hearing.
The hearing officer will mail the parties a written notice of the hearing at their last known addresses, at least 14 calendar days before the date set for the hearing. The notice will inform the parties whether the appearance of the parties or any witnesses will be in person, by video teleconferencing, or by telephone. The notice will also include requirements and instructions for filing motions, requesting witnesses, and entering exhibits.
(d)
Change of time and place for hearing.
(1) The hearing officer may change the time and place for the hearing, either on his or her own initiative, or at the request of the representative or the other party to the hearing. The hearing officer will not consider objections to the manner of appearance of parties or witnesses, unless the party shows good cause not to appear in the prescribed manner. To determine whether good cause exists for extending the deadline, we use the standards explained in § 404.911.
(2) The hearing officer may adjourn or postpone the hearing.
(3) Subject to the limitations in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the hearing officer may reopen the hearing for the receipt of additional evidence at any time before mailing notice of the decision.
(4) The hearing officer shall give the representative and the other party to the hearing reasonable notice of any change in the time or place for the hearing, or of an adjournment or reopening of the hearing.
(e)
Parties.
The representative against whom charges have been made is a party to the hearing. The General Counsel or other delegated official will also be a party to the hearing.
(f)
Subpoenas.
(1) The representative or the other party to the hearing may request the hearing officer to issue a subpoena for the attendance and testimony of witnesses and for the production of books, records, correspondence, papers, or other documents that are material to any matter being considered at the hearing. The hearing officer may, on his or her own initiative, issue subpoenas for the same purposes when the action is reasonably necessary for the full presentation of the facts.
(2) The representative or the other party who wants a subpoena issued shall file a written request with the hearing officer. This must be done at least 5 days before the date set for the hearing. The request must name the documents to be produced, and describe the address or location in enough detail to permit the witnesses or documents to be found.
(3) The representative or the other party who wants a subpoena issued shall state in the request for a subpoena the material facts that he or she expects to establish by the witness or document, and why the facts could not be established by the use of other evidence which could be obtained without use of a subpoena.
(4) We will pay the cost of the issuance and the fees and mileage of any witness subpoenaed, as provided in section 205(d) of the Act.
(g)
Conduct of the hearing.
(1) The representative or the other party may file a motion for decision on the basis of the record prior to the hearing. The hearing officer will give the representative and the other party a reasonable amount of time to submit any evidence and to file briefs or other written statements as to fact and law prior to deciding the motion. If the hearing officer concludes that there is no genuine dispute as to any material fact and the movant is entitled to a decision as a matter of law, the hearing officer may grant the motion and issue a decision in accordance with the provisions of § 404.1770.
(2) If the representative did not file an answer to the charges, he or she has no right to present evidence at the hearing. The hearing officer may make or recommend a decision on the basis of the record, or permit the representative to present a statement about the sufficiency of the evidence or the validity of the proceedings upon which the suspension or disqualification, if it occurred, would be based.
(3) The hearing officer will make the hearing open to the representative, to the other party, and to any persons the hearing officer or the parties consider necessary or proper. The hearing officer will inquire fully into the matters being considered, hear the testimony of witnesses, and accept any documents that are material.
(4) The hearing officer has the right to decide the order in which the evidence and the allegations will be presented and the conduct of the hearing.
(h)
Evidence.
The hearing officer may accept evidence at the hearing, even though it is not admissible under the rules of evidence that apply to Federal court procedure.
(i)
Witnesses.
Witnesses who testify at the hearing shall do so under oath or affirmation. Either the representative or a person representing him or her may question the witnesses. The other party and that party's representative must also be allowed to question the witnesses. The hearing officer may also ask questions as considered necessary, and shall rule upon any objection made by either party about whether any question is proper.
(j)
Oral and written summation.
(1) The hearing officer shall give the representative and the other party a reasonable time to present oral summation and to file briefs or other written statements about proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law if the parties request it.
(2) The party that files briefs or other written statements shall provide enough copies so that they may be made available to any other party to the hearing who requests a copy.
(k)
Record of hearing.
In all cases, the hearing officer shall have a complete record of the proceedings at the hearing made.
(l)
Representation.
The representative, as the person charged, may appear in person and may be represented by an attorney or other representative. The General Counsel or other delegated official will be represented by one or more attorneys from the Office of the General Counsel.
(m)
Failure to appear.
If the representative or the other party to the hearing fails to appear after being notified of the time and place, the hearing officer may hold the hearing anyway so that the party present may offer evidence to sustain or rebut the charges. The hearing officer shall give the party who failed to appear an opportunity to show good cause for failure to appear. If the party fails to show good cause, he or she is considered to have waived the right to be present at the hearing. If the party shows good cause, the hearing officer may hold a supplemental hearing.
(n)
Dismissal of charges.
The hearing officer may dismiss the charges in the event of the death of the representative.
(o)
Cost of transcript.
If the representative or the other party to a hearing requests a copy of the transcript of the hearing, the hearing officer will have it prepared and sent to the party upon
payment of the cost, unless the payment is waived for good cause.
[45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 56 FR 24131, 24132, May 29, 1991; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997; 63 FR 41417, Aug. 4, 1998; 71 FR 2877, Jan. 18, 2006; 76 FR 80246, Dec. 23, 2011; 83 FR 30856, July 2, 2018]
§ 404.1770
Decision by hearing officer.
(a)
General.
(1) After the close of the hearing, the hearing officer will issue a decision or certify the case to the Appeals Council. The decision must be in writing, will contain findings of fact and conclusions of law, and be based upon the evidence of record.
(2) In deciding whether a person has been, by reason of misconduct, disbarred or suspended by a court or bar, or disqualified from participating in or appearing before any Federal program or Federal agency, the hearing officer will consider the reasons for the disbarment, suspension, or disqualification action. If the action was taken for solely administrative reasons (e.g., failure to pay dues or to complete continuing legal education requirements), that will not disqualify the person from acting as a representative before us. However, this exception to disqualification does not apply if the administrative action was taken in lieu of disciplinary proceedings (e.g., acceptance of a voluntary resignation pending disciplinary action). Although the hearing officer will consider whether the disbarment, suspension, or disqualification action is based on misconduct when deciding whether a person should be disqualified from acting as a representative before us, the hearing officer will not re-examine or revise the factual or legal conclusions that led to the disbarment, suspension, or disqualification. For purposes of determining whether a person has been, by reason of misconduct, disqualified from participating in or appearing before any Federal program or Federal agency, disqualified refers to any action that prohibits a person from participating in or appearing before any Federal program or Federal agency, regardless of how long the prohibition lasts or the specific terminology used.
(3) If the hearing officer finds that the charges against the representative have been sustained, he or she will either—
(i) Suspend the representative for a specified period of not less than 1 year, nor more than 5 years, from the date of the decision; or
(ii) Disqualify the representative from acting as a representative in dealings with us until he or she may be reinstated under § 404.1799. Disqualification is the sole sanction available if the charges have been sustained because the representative has been disbarred or suspended from any court or bar to which the representative was previously admitted to practice or disqualified from participating in or appearing before any Federal program or Federal agency, or because the representative has collected or received, and retains, a fee for representational services in excess of the amount authorized.
(4) The hearing officer shall mail a copy of the decision to the parties at their last known addresses. The notice will inform the parties of the right to request the Appeals Council to review the decision.
(b)
Effect of hearing officer's decision.
(1) The hearing officer's decision is final and binding unless reversed or modified by the Appeals Council upon review.
(2) If the final decision is that a person is disqualified from being a representative in dealings with us, he or she will not be permitted to represent anyone in dealings with us until authorized to do so under the provisions of § 404.1799.
(3) If the final decision is that a person is suspended for a specified period of time from being a representative in dealings with us, he or she will not be permitted to represent anyone in dealings with us during the period of suspension unless authorized to do so under the provisions of § 404.1799.
[45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 56 FR 24132, May 29, 1991; 63 FR 41417, Aug. 4, 1998; 71 FR 2877, Jan. 18, 2006; 76 FR 80246, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 404.1775
Requesting review of the hearing officer's decision.
(a)
General.
After the hearing officer issues a decision, either the representative or the other party to the hearing
may ask the Appeals Council to review the decision.
(b)
Time and place of filing request for review.
The party requesting review will file the request for review in writing with the Appeals Council within 14 business days from the date the hearing officer mailed the notice. The party requesting review will certify that a copy of the request for review and of any documents that are submitted have been mailed to the opposing party.
[45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 83 FR 30856, July 2, 2018]
§ 404.1776
Assignment of request for review of the hearing officer's decision.
Upon receipt of a request for review of the hearing officer's decision, the matter will be assigned to a panel consisting of three members of the Appeals Council none of whom shall be the Chair of the Appeals Council. The panel shall jointly consider and rule by majority opinion on the request for review of the hearing officer's decision, including a determination to dismiss the request for review. Matters other than a final disposition of the request for review may be disposed of by the member designated chair of the panel.
[56 FR 24132, May 29, 1991]
§ 404.1780
Appeals Council's review of hearing officer's decision.
(a) Upon request, the Appeals Council will give the parties a reasonable time to file briefs or other written statements as to fact and law, and to request to appear before the Appeals Council to present oral argument. When oral argument is requested within the time designated by the Appeals Council, the Appeals Council will grant the request for oral argument and determine whether the parties will appear at the oral argument in person, by video teleconferencing, or by telephone. If oral argument is not requested within the time designated by the Appeals Council, the Appeals Council may deny the request.
(b) If a party files a brief or other written statement with the Appeals Council, he or she shall send a copy to the opposing party and certify that the copy has been sent.
[45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 83 FR 30856, July 2, 2018]
§ 404.1785
Evidence permitted on review.
(a)
General.
Generally, the Appeals Council will not consider evidence in addition to that introduced at the hearing. However, if the Appeals Council finds the evidence offered is material to an issue it is considering, it may consider that evidence, as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Individual charged filed an answer.
(1) When the Appeals Council finds that additional evidence material to the charges is available, and the individual charged filed an answer to the charges, the Appeals Council will allow the party with the information to submit the additional evidence.
(2) Before the Appeals Council admits additional evidence into the record, it will mail a notice to the parties, informing them that evidence about certain issues was submitted. The Appeals Council will give each party a reasonable opportunity to comment on the evidence and to present other evidence that is material to an issue it is considering.
(3) The Appeals Council will determine whether the additional evidence warrants a new review by a hearing officer or whether the Appeals Council will consider the additional evidence as part of its review of the case.
(c)
Individual charged did not file an answer.
If the representative did not file an answer to the charges, the representative may not introduce evidence that was not considered at the hearing.
[83 FR 30856, July 2, 2018]
§ 404.1790
Appeals Council's decision.
(a) The Appeals Council will base its decision upon the evidence in the hearing record and any other evidence it may permit on review. The Appeals Council will affirm the hearing officer's decision if the action, findings, and conclusions are supported by substantial evidence. If the hearing officer's decision is not supported by substantial evidence, the Appeals Council will either:
(1) Reverse or modify the hearing officer's decision; or
(2) Return the case to the hearing officer for further proceedings.
(b) The Appeals Council, in changing a hearing officer's decision to suspend a representative for a specified period, shall in no event reduce the period of suspension to less than 1 year. In modifying a hearing officer's decision to disqualify a representative, the Appeals Council shall in no event impose a period of suspension of less than 1 year. Further, the Appeals Council shall in no event impose a suspension when disqualification is the sole sanction available in accordance with § 404.1770(a)(3)(ii).
(c) If the Appeals Council affirms or changes a hearing officer's decision, the period of suspension or the disqualification is effective from the date of the Appeals Council's decision.
(d) If the hearing officer did not impose a period of suspension or a disqualification, and the Appeals Council decides to impose one or the other, the suspension or disqualification is effective from the date of the Appeals Council's decision.
(e) The Appeals Council shall make its decision in writing and shall mail a copy of the decision to the parties at their last known addresses.
(f) The Appeals Council may designate and publish certain final decisions as precedent for other actions brought under its representative conduct provisions. Prior to making a decision public, we will remove or redact personally identifiable information from the decision.
[45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 56 FR 24132, May 29, 1991; 71 FR 2877, Jan. 18, 2006; 83 FR 30856, July 2, 2018]
§ 404.1795
When the Appeals Council will dismiss a request for review.
The Appeals Council may dismiss a request for the review of any proceeding to suspend or disqualify a representative in any of the following circumstances:
(a)
Upon request of party.
The Appeals Council may dismiss a request for review upon written request of the party or parties who filed the request if there is no other party who objects to the dismissal.
(b)
Death of party.
The Appeals Council may dismiss a request for review in the event of the death of the representative.
(c)
Request for review not timely filed.
The Appeals Council will dismiss a request for review if a party failed to file a request for review within the 14 business day time period set forth in § 404.1775(b) and the Appeals Council does not extend the time for good cause.
[45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 84 FR 51367, Sept. 30, 2019]
§ 404.1797
Reinstatement after suspension—period of suspension expired.
We shall automatically allow a person to serve again as a representative in dealings with us at the end of any suspension.
§ 404.1799
Reinstatement after suspension or disqualification—period of suspension not expired.
(a) After more than one year has passed, a person who has been suspended or disqualified may ask the Appeals Council for permission to serve as a representative again. The Appeals Council will assign and process a request for reinstatement using the same general procedures described in § 404.1776.
(b) The suspended or disqualified person must submit any evidence the person wishes to have considered along with the request to be allowed to serve as a representative again.
(c) The General Counsel or other delegated official, upon notification of receipt of the request, will have 30 days in which to present a written report of any experiences with the suspended or disqualified person subsequent to that person's suspension or disqualification. The Appeals Council will make available to the suspended or disqualified person a copy of the report.
(d)(1) The Appeals Council shall not grant the request unless it is reasonably satisfied that the person will in the future act according to the provisions of section 206(a) of the Act, and to our rules and regulations.
(2) If a person was disqualified because he or she had been disbarred, suspended, or removed from practice for the reasons described in § 404.1745(d)
through (f), the Appeals Council will grant a request for reinstatement as a representative only if the criterion in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is met and the disqualified person shows that he or she has been admitted (or readmitted) to and is in good standing with the court, bar, Federal program or agency, or other governmental or professional licensing authority from which he or she had been disbarred, suspended, or removed from practice.
(3) If a person was disqualified because the person had been disqualified from participating in or appearing before a Federal program or Federal agency, the Appeals Council will grant the request for reinstatement only if the criterion in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is met and the disqualified person shows that the person is now qualified to participate in or appear before that Federal program or Federal agency.
(4) If the person was disqualified as a result of collecting or receiving, and retaining, a fee for representational services in excess of the amount authorized, the Appeals Council will grant the request only if the criterion in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is met and the disqualified person shows that full restitution has been made.
(e) The Appeals Council will mail a notice of its decision on the request for reinstatement to the suspended or disqualified person. It will also mail a copy to the General Counsel or other delegated official.
(f) If the Appeals Council decides not to grant the request, it will not consider another request before the end of 3 years from the date of the notice of the previous denial.
[45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 56 FR 24132, May 29, 1991; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997; 63 FR 41417, Aug. 4, 1998; 71 FR 2877, Jan. 18, 2006; 76 FR 80246, Dec. 23, 2011; 83 FR 30857, July 2, 2018]

# Subpart S—Payment Procedures

# Authority:
Secs. 205 (a) and (n), 207, 702(a)(5), and 708(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405 (a) and (n), 407, 902(a)(5) and 909(a)).

# Source:
45 FR 52095, Aug. 5, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 404.1800
Introduction.
After we have made a determination or decision that you are entitled to benefits under title II of the Act, we begin paying those benefits to you as soon as possible. This subpart explains—
(a) What we must do so that your benefits begin promptly;
(b) When and how you may request that payment of benefits be expedited;
(c) When we may cause your benefits to be withheld;
(d) Our obligation not to assign or transfer your benefits to someone; and
(e) When we will use one check to pay benefits to two or more persons in a family.
§ 404.1805
Paying benefits.
(a) As soon as possible after we have made a determination or decision that you are entitled to benefits, we certify to the Secretary of the Treasury, who is the Managing Trustee of the Trust Funds—
(1) Your name and address, or the name and address of the person to be paid if someone receives your benefits on your behalf as a representative payee;
(2) The amount of the payment or payments to be made from the appropriate Trust Fund; and
(3) The time at which the payment or payments should be made in accordance with § 404.1807.
(b) Under certain circumstances when you have had railroad employment, we will certify the information to the Railroad Retirement Board.
[45 FR 52095, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 6120, Feb. 11, 1997]
§ 404.1807
Monthly payment day.
(a)
General.
Once we have made a determination or decision that you are entitled to recurring monthly benefits, you will be assigned a monthly payment day. Thereafter, any recurring monthly benefits which are payable to you will be certified to the Managing Trustee for delivery on or before that day of the month as part of our certification under § 404.1805(a)(3). Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(6) of this section, once you have
been assigned a monthly payment day, that day will not be changed.
(b)
Assignment of payment day.
(1) We will assign the same payment day for all individuals who receive benefits on the earnings record of a particular insured individual.
(2) The payment day will be selected based on the day of the month on which the insured individual was born. Insured individuals born on the 1st through the 10th of the month will be paid on the second Wednesday of each month. Insured individuals born on the 11th through the 20th of the month will be paid on the third Wednesday of each month. Insured individuals born after the 20th of the month will be paid on the fourth Wednesday of each month. See paragraph (c) of this section for exceptions.
(3) We will notify you in writing of the particular monthly payment day that is assigned to you.
(c)
Exceptions.
(1) If you or any other person became entitled to benefits on the earnings record of the insured individual based on an application filed before May 1, 1997, you will continue to receive your benefits on the 3rd day of the month (but see paragraph (c)(6) of this section). All persons who subsequently become entitled to benefits on that earnings record will be assigned to the 3rd day of the month as the monthly payment day.
(2) If you or any other person become entitled to benefits on the earnings record of the insured individual based on an application filed after April 30, 1997, and also become entitled to Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits or have income which is deemed to an SSI beneficiary (per § 416.1160), all persons who are or become entitled to benefits on that earnings record will be assigned to the 3rd day of the month as the monthly payment day. We will notify you in writing if your monthly payment day is being changed to the 3rd of the month due to this provision.
(3) If you or any other person become entitled to benefits on the earnings record of the insured individual based on an application filed after April 30, 1997, and also reside in a foreign country, all persons who are or become entitled to benefits on that earnings record will be assigned to the 3rd day of the month as the monthly payment day. We will notify you in writing if your monthly payment day is being changed to the 3rd of the month due to this provision.
(4) If you or any other person become entitled on the earnings record of the insured individual based on an application filed after April 30, 1997, and are not entitled to SSI but are or become eligible for the State where you live to pay your Medicare premium under the provisions of section 1843 of the Act, all persons who are or become entitled to benefits on that earnings record will be assigned to the 3rd day of the month as the monthly payment day. We will notify you in writing if your monthly payment day is being changed to the 3rd of the month due to this provision.
(5) After April 30, 1997, all individuals who become entitled on one record and later entitled on another record, without a break in entitlement, will be paid all benefits to which they are entitled no later than their current payment day. Individuals who are being paid benefits on one record on the 3rd of the month, and who become entitled on another record without a break in entitlement, will continue to receive all benefits on the 3rd of the month.
(6) If the day regularly scheduled for the delivery of your benefit payment falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday, you will be paid on the first preceding day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday.
[62 FR 6120, Feb. 11, 1997]
§ 404.1810
Expediting benefit payments.
(a)
General.
We have established special procedures to expedite the payment of benefits in certain initial and subsequent claims. This section tells how you may request an expedited payment and when we will be able to hasten your payments by means of this process.
(b)
Applicability of section.
(1) This section applies to monthly benefits payable under title II of the Act, except as indicated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and to those cases where we certify information to the Railroad Retirement Board.
(2) This section does not apply—
(i) If an initial determination has been made and a request for a reconsideration, a hearing, a review by the Appeals Council, or review by a Federal court is pending on any issue of entitlement to or payment of a benefit;
(ii) To any benefit for which a check has been cashed; or
(iii) To any benefit based on an alleged disability.
(c)
Request for payment.
(1) You shall submit to us a written request for payment of benefits in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section. Paragraph (c)(2) of this section applies if you were receiving payments regularly and you then fail to receive payment for one or more months. Paragraph (c)(3) of this section applies if we have not made a determination about your entitlement to benefits, or if we have suspended or withheld payment due, for example, to excess earnings or recovery of an overpayment.
(2) If you received a regular monthly benefit in the month before the month in which a payment was allegedly due, you may make a written request for payment any time 30 days after the 15th day of the month in which the payment was allegedly due. If you request is made before the end of the 30-day period, we will consider it to have been made at the end of the period.
(3)(i) If you did not receive a regular monthly benefit in the month before the month in which a payment was allegedly due, you may make a written request for payment any time 90 days after the later of—
(A) The date on which the benefit is alleged to have been due; or
(B) The date on which you furnished us the last information we requested from you.
(ii) If your request is made before the end of the 90-day period we will consider it to have been made at the end of the period.
(d)
Certification for payment.
If we find that benefits are due, we shall certify the benefits for payment in sufficient time to permit the payment to be made within 15 days after the request for expedited payment is made, or considered to have been made, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Preliminary certification for payment.
If we determine that there is evidence, although additional evidence may be required for a final decision, that a monthly benefit due to you in a particular month was not paid, we may make preliminary certification of payment even though the 30-day or 90-day periods described in paragraph (c) of this section have not elapsed.
§ 404.1815
Withholding certification or payments.
(a)
When certification may be withheld.
After a determination or decision, we may withhold certification to the Managing Trustee, or, if we have already made certification, we may notify the Managing Trustee to withhold payments. We may do this if a question about the validity of the payment or payments to be made under the determination or decision arises as the result of one of the following events:
(1) A reconsideration (whether at the request of a claimant or on our own motion), hearing, or review is being conducted, or a civil action has been filed in a Federal district court concerning the determination or decision.
(2) An application or request is pending concerning the payment of benefits or a lump sum to another person, and the application or request is inconsistent, in whole or in part, with the payment or payments under the determination or decision.
(b)
When certification will not be withheld.
We will not withhold certification or payment as explained in paragraph (a) of this section unless evidence is submitted with the request or application that is sufficient to raise a reasonable question about the validity of the payment or payments under the determination or decision. We will not withhold certification of any amount of the payment or payments not in question. Your acceptance of any payment or payments will not affect your right to reconsideration, hearing, or review about any additional payment or payments you may claim.
§ 404.1820
Transfer or assignment of payments.
(a)
General.
We shall not certify payment to—
(1) Any person designated as your assignee or transferee; or
(2) Any person claiming payment because of an execution, levy, attachment, garnishment, or other legal process, or because of any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding against or affecting you.
(b)
Enforcement of a child support or alimony obligation.
If you have a legal obligation to provide child support or make alimony payments and legal process is issued to enforce this obligation, the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply.
§ 404.1821
Garnishment of payments after disbursement.
(a) Payments that are covered by section 207 of the Social Security Act and made by direct deposit are subject to 31 CFR part 212, Garnishment of Accounts Containing Federal Benefit Payments.
(b) This section may be amended only by a rulemaking issued jointly by the Department of Treasury and the agencies defined as a “benefit agency” in 31 CFR 212.3.
[76 FR 9960, Feb. 23, 2011]
§ 404.1825
Joint payments to a family.
(a)
Two or more beneficiaries in same family.
If an amount is payable under title II of the Act for any month to two or more persons who are members of the same family, we may certify any two or more of the individuals for joint payment of the total benefits payable to them for the month.
(b)
Joint payee dies before cashing a check.
(1) If a check has been issued for joint payment to an individual and spouse residing in the same household, and one of the joint payees dies before the check has been cashed, we may authorize the surviving payee to cash the check. We make the authorization by placing on the face of the check a stamped legend signed by an official of the Social Security Administration or the Treasury Disbursing Office redesignating the survivor as the payee of the check.
(2) If the uncashed check represents benefits for a month after the month of death, we will not authorize the surviving payee to cash the check unless the proceeds of the check are necessary to meet the ordinary and necessary living expenses of the surviving payee.
(c)
Adjustment or recovery of overpayment.
If a check representing payment of benefits to an individual and spouse residing in the same household is cashed by the surviving payee under the authorization in paragraph (b) of this section, and the amount of the check exceeds the amount to which the surviving payee is entitled, we shall make appropriate adjustment or recovery of the excess amount.

# Subpart T—Totalization Agreements

# Authority:
Secs. 205(a), 233, and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(a), 433, and 902(a)(5)).

# Source:
44 FR 42964, July 23, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 404.1901
Introduction.
(a) Under section 233 of the Social Security Act, the President may enter into an agreement establishing a totalization arrangement between the social security system of the United States and the social security system of a foreign country. An agreement permits entitlement to and the amount of old-age, survivors, disability, or derivative benefits to be based on a combination of a person's periods of coverage under the social security system of the United States and the social security system of the foreign country. An agreement also provides for the precluding of dual coverage and dual social security taxation for work covered under both systems. An agreement may provide that the provisions of the social security system of each country will apply equally to the nationals of both countries (regardless of where they reside). For this purpose, refugees, stateless persons, and other nonnationals who derive benefit rights from nationals, refugees, or stateless persons may be treated as nationals if they reside within one of the countries.
(b) The regulations in this subpart provide definitions and principles for the negotiation and administration of totalization agreements. Where necessary to accomplish the purposes of totalization, we will apply these definitions and principles, as appropriate and
within the limits of the law, to accommodate the widely diverse characteristics of foreign social security systems.
§ 404.1902
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart—
Act
means the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
).
Agency
means the agency responsible for the specific administration of a social security system including responsibility for implementing an agreement; the Social Security Administration (SSA) is the
agency
in the U.S.
Agreement
means the agreement negotiated to provide coordination between the social security systems of the countries party to the agreement. The term agreement includes any administrative agreements concluded for purposes of administering the agreement.
Competent authority
means the official with overall responsibility for administration of a country's social security system including applicable laws and international social security agreements; the Commissioner of Social Security is the
competent authority
in the U.S.
Period of coverage
means a period of payment of contributions or a period of earnings based on wages for employment or on self-employment income, or any similar period recognized as equivalent under the social security system of the U.S. or under the social security system of the foreign country which is a party to an agreement.
Residence
or
ordinarily resides,
when used in agreements, has the following meaning for the U.S.
Residence
or
ordinarily resides
in a country means that a person has established a home in that country intending to remain there permanently or for an indefinite period of time. Generally, a person will be considered to have established a home in a country if that person assumes certain economic burdens, such as the purchase of a dwelling or establishment of a business, and participates in the social and cultural activities of the community. If residence in a country is established, it may continue even though the person is temporarily absent from that country. Generally, an absence of six months or less will be considered temporary. If an absence is for more than six months, residence in the country will generally be considered to continue only if there is sufficient evidence to establish that the person intends to maintain the residence. Sufficient evidence would include the maintenance of a home or apartment in that country, the departure from the country with a reentry permit, or similar acts. The existence of business or family associations sufficient to warrant the person's return would also be considered.
Social security system
means a social insurance or pension system which is of general application and which provides for paying periodic benefits, or the actuarial equivalent, because of old-age, death, or disability.
[44 FR 42964, July 23, 1979, as amended at 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1903
Negotiating totalization agreements.
An agreement shall be negotiated with the national government of the foreign country for the entire country. However, agreements may only be negotiated with foreign countries that have a social security system of general application in effect. The system shall be considered to be in effect if it is collecting social security taxes or paying social security benefits.
§ 404.1904
Effective date of a totalization agreement.
Section 233 of the Social Security Act provides that a totalization agreement shall become effective on any date provided in the agreement if—
(a) The date occurs after the expiration of a period during which at least one House of Congress has been in session on each of 60 days following the date on which the agreement is transmitted to Congress by the President; and
(b) Neither House of Congress adopts a resolution of disapproval of the agreement within the 60-day period described in paragraph (a) of this section.
[49 FR 29775, July 24, 1984]
§ 404.1905
Termination of agreements.
Each agreement shall contain provisions for its possible termination. If an agreement is terminated, entitlement
to benefits and coverage acquired by an individual before termination shall be retained. The agreement shall provide for notification of termination to the other party and the effective date of termination.

# Benefit Provisions
§ 404.1908
Crediting foreign periods of coverage.
(a)
General.
To have foreign periods of coverage combined with U.S. periods of coverage for purposes of determining entitlement to and the amount of benefits payable under title II, an individual must have at least 6 quarters of coverage, as defined in section 213 of the Social Security Act, under the U.S. system. As a rule, SSA will accept foreign coverage information, as certified by the foreign country's agency, unless otherwise specified by the agreement. No credit will be given, however, for periods of coverage acquired before January 1, 1937.
(b)
For quarters of coverage purposes.
(1) Generally, a quarter of coverage (QC) will be credited for every 3 months (or equivalent period), or remaining fraction of 3 months, of coverage in a reporting period certified to SSA by the other country's agency. A reporting period used by a foreign country may be one calendar year or some other period of time. QCs based on foreign periods of coverage may be credited as QCs only to calendar quarters not already QCs under title II. The QCs will be assigned chronologically beginning with the first calendar quarter (not already a QC under title II) within the reporting period and continuing until all the QCs are assigned, or the reporting period ends. Example: Country XYZ, which has an annual reporting period, certifies to SSA that a worker has 8 months of coverage in 1975, from January 1 to August 25. The worker has no QCs under title II in that year. Since 8 months divided by 3 months equals 2 QCs with a remainder of 2 months, the U.S. will credit the worker with 3 QCs. The QCs will be credited to the first 3 calendar quarters in 1975.
(2) If an individual fails to meet the requirements for currently insured status or the insured status needed for establishing a period of disability solely because of the assignment of QCs based on foreign coverage to calendar quarters chronologically, the QCs based on foreign coverage may be assigned to different calendar quarters within the beginning and ending dates of the reporting period certified by the foreign country, but only as permitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
§ 404.1910
Person qualifies under more than one totalization agreement.
(a) An agreement may not provide for combining periods of coverage under more than two social security systems.
(b) If a person qualifies under more than one agreement, the person will receive benefits from the U.S. only under the agreement affording the most favorable treatment.
(c) In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the agreement that affords the most favorable treatment for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section will be determined as follows:
(1) If benefit amounts are the same under all such agreements, benefits will be paid only under the agreement which affords the earliest month of entitlement.
(2) If benefit amounts and the month of entitlement are the same under all such agreements, benefits will be paid only under the agreement under which all information necessary to pay such benefits is first available.
(3) If benefit amounts under all such agreements are not the same, benefits will be paid only under the agreement under which the highest benefit is payable. However, benefits may be paid under an agreement under which a lower benefit is payable for months prior to the month of first entitlement to such higher benefit.
[44 FR 42964, July 23, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 29775, July 24, 1984]
§ 404.1911
Effects of a totalization agreement on entitlement to hospital insurance benefits.
A person may not become entitled to hospital insurance benefits under section 226 or section 226A of the Act by combining the person's periods of coverage under the social security system of the United States with the person's
periods of coverage under the social security system of the foreign country. Entitlement to hospital insurance benefits is not precluded if the person otherwise meets the requirements.

# Coverage Provisions
§ 404.1913
Precluding dual coverage.
(a)
General.
Employment or self-employment or services recognized as equivalent under the Act or the social security system of the foreign country shall, on or after the effective date of the agreement, result in a period of coverage under the U.S. system or under the foreign system, but not under both. Methods shall be set forth in the agreement for determining under which system the employment, self-employment, or other service shall result in a period of coverage.
(b)
Principles for precluding dual coverage.
(1) An agreement precludes dual coverage by assigning responsibility for coverage to the U.S. or a foreign country. An agreement may modify the coverage provisions of title II of the Act to accomplish this purpose. Where an agreement assigns coverage to the foreign country, it may exempt from coverage services otherwise covered by the Act. Where an agreement assigns coverage to the U.S., it may extend coverage to services not otherwise covered by the Act but only for taxable years beginning on or after April 20, 1983.
(2) If the work would otherwise be covered by both countries, an agreement will exempt it from coverage by one of the countries.
(3) Generally, an agreement will provide that a worker will be covered by the country in which he or she is employed and will be exempt from coverage by the other country.

# Example:
A U.S. national employed in XYZ country by an employer located in the United States will be covered by XYZ country and exempt from U.S. coverage.
(4) An agreement may provide exceptions to the principle stated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section so that a worker will be covered by the country to which he or she has the greater attachment.

# Example:
A U.S. national sent by his employer located in the United States to work temporarily for that employer in XYZ country will be covered by the United States and will be exempt from coverage by XYZ country.
(5) Generally, if a national of either country resides in one country and has self employment income that is covered by both countries, an agreement will provide that the person will be covered by the country in which he or she resides and will be exempt from coverage by the other country.
(6) Agreements may provide for variations from the general principles for precluding dual coverage to avoid inequitable or anomalous coverage situations for certain workers. However, in all cases coverage must be provided by one of the countries.
[44 FR 42964, July 23, 1979, as amended at 50 FR 36575, Sept. 9, 1985]
§ 404.1914
Certificate of coverage.
Under some agreements, proof of coverage under one social security system may be required before the individual may be exempt from coverage under the other system. Requests for certificates of coverage under the U.S. system may be submitted by the employer, employee, or self-employed individual to SSA.
§ 404.1915
Payment of contributions.
On or after the effective date of the agreement, to the extent that employment or self-employment (or service recognized as equivalent) under the U.S. social security system or foreign system is covered under the agreement, the agreement shall provide that the work or equivalent service be subject to payment of contributions or taxes under only one system (see sections 1401(c), 3101(c), and 3111(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954). The system under which contributions or taxes are to be paid is the system under which there is coverage pursuant to the agreement.

# Computation Provisions
§ 404.1918
How benefits are computed.
(a)
General.
Unless otherwise provided in an agreement, benefits will be
computed in accordance with this section. Benefits payable under an agreement are based on a pro rata primary insurance amount (PIA), which we determine as follows:
(1) We establish a theoretical earnings record for a worker which attributes to all computation base years (see §§ 404.211(b) and 404.241(c)) the same relative earnings position (REP) as he or she has in the years of his or her actual U.S. covered work. As explained in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the REP is derived by determining the ratio of the worker's actual U.S. covered earnings in each year to the average of the total U.S. covered wages of all workers for that year, and then averaging the ratios for all such years. This average is the REP and is expressed as a percentage.
(2) We compute a theoretical PIA as prescribed in § 404.1918(c) based on the theoretical earnings record and the provisions of subpart C of this part.
(3) We multiply the theoretical PIA by a fraction equal to the number of quarters of coverage (QC's) which the worker completed under the U.S. Social Security system over the number of calendar quarters in the worker's coverage lifetime (see paragraph (d)(2) of this section). See § 404.140 for the definition of QC.
(4) If the pro rata PIA is higher than the PIA which would be computed if the worker were insured under the U.S. system without totalization, the pro rata PIA will be reduced to the later PIA.
(b)
Establishing a theoretical earnings record.
(1) To establish a worker's theoretical earnings record, we divide his or her U.S. earnings in each year credited with at least one U.S. QC by the average of the total wages of all workers for that year and express the quotient as a percentage. For the years 1937 through 1950, the average of the total wages is as follows:
Year
Average of the total wages of all workers
1937
$1,137.96
1938
1,053.24
1939
1,142.36
1940
1,195.00
1941
1,276.04
1942
1,454.28
1943
1,713.52
1944
1,936.32
1945
2,021.40
1946
1,891.76
1947
2,175.32
1948
2,361.64
1949
2,483.20
1950
2,543.96
(2) For years after 1950, the average of the total wages is as prescribed in § 404.211(c). If a worker has earnings in the year preceding the year of eligibility or death, or in a later year, we may not have been able to establish the average of the total wages of all workers for that year. Therefore, we will divide a worker's actual earnings in these years by the average of the total wages for the latest year for which that information is available. Average wage information is considered available on January 1 of the year following the year in which it is published in the
Federal Register.
(3) The percentages for all years of actual covered earnings are then averaged to give the worker's REP for the entire period of work in the U.S. In determining the percentages for all years of covered earnings and the REP, we make adjustments as necessary to take account of the fact that the covered earnings for some years may have involved less than four U.S. QC's. The actual earnings that are taken into account in determining the percentage for any year with 1, 2, or 3 QC's cannot exceed
1/4
,
1/2
, or
3/4
, respectively, of the maximum creditable earnings for that year. When we determine the REP from the percentages for all years, we add the percentages for all years, divide this sum by the total number of QC's credited to the worker, and multiply this quotient by 4 (see Example 1 of paragraph (d) of this section). This has the effect of calculating the REP on a quarterly basis.
(4) For each of the worker's computation base years (see §§ 404.211(b), 404.221(b) and 404.241(c)), we multiply the average of the total wages of all workers for that year by the worker's REP. The product is the amount of earnings attributed to the worker for that year, subject to the annual wage limitation (see § 404.1047). The worker's
theoretical earnings record consists of his or her attributed earnings based on his or her REP for all computation base years. However, we do not attribute earnings to computation base years before the year of attainment of age 22 or to computation base years beginning with the year of attainment of retirement age (or the year in which a period of disability begins), unless the worker is actually credited with U.S. earnings in those years. In death cases, earnings for the year of death will be attributed only through the quarter of death, on a proportional basis.
(c)
Determining the theoretical PIA.
We determine the worker's theoretical PIA based on his or her theoretical earnings record by applying the same computation method that would have applied under subpart C if the worker had these theoretical earnings and had qualified for benefits without application of an agreement. However, when the criteria in § 404.210(a) for the Average Indexed Monthly Earnings (AIME) computation method are met, only that method is used. If these criteria are not met but the criteria in § 404.220(a) for the Average Monthly Wage method are met, then only that method is used. If neither of these criteria are met, then the old-start method described in § 404.241 is used. If a theoretical PIA is to be determined based on a worker's AIME, theoretical earnings amounts for each year, determined under paragraph (b) of this section, are indexed in determining the AIME under § 404.211.
(d)
Determining the pro rata PIA.
We then determine a pro rata PIA from the theoretical PIA. The pro rata PIA is the product of—
(1) The theoretical PIA; and
(2) The ratio of the worker's actual number of U.S. QC's to the number of calendar quarters in the worker's coverage lifetime. A coverage lifetime means the worker's benefit computation years as determined under § 404.211(e), § 404.221(c), or § 404.241(d).

# Example 1:
C attains age 62 in 1982 and needs 31 QC's to be insured. C worked under the U.S. system from July 1, 1974 to December 31, 1980 and therefore has only 6
1/2
years during which he worked under the U.S. system (26 QC's). C, however, has worked under the Social Security system of a foreign country that is party to a totalization agreement, and his total U.S. and foreign work, combined as described in § 404.1908, equals more than 31 QC's. Thus, the combined coverage gives C insured status. The benefit is computed as follows:
Step 1:
Establish C's theoretical earnings record:
The following table shows: (1) C's actual U.S. covered earnings for each year, (2) the average of the total wages of all workers for that year and (3) the ratio of (1) to (2):
Year
QC's
C's actual U.S. covered earnings
National average wage
Percentage ratio of (1) to (2)
(1)
(2)
(3)
1974
2
$2,045.08
$8,030.76
25.46558
1975
4
7,542.00
8,630.92
87.38350
1976
4
9,016.00
9,226.48
97.71874
1977
4
9,952.00
9,779.44
101.76452
1978
4
10,924.00
10,556.03
103.48587
1979
4
12,851.00
11,479.46
111.94777
1980
4
11,924.00
12,513.46
95.28939
C's REP is the average of the ratios in column 3, adjusted to take account of the fact that C had only 2 QC's in 1974. Thus, the REP equals the sum of the figures in column 3 (623.05537), divided by the total number of C's QC's (26) and multiplied by 4, or 95.85467 percent.
Since C attained age 62 in 1982, his computation base years are 1951 through 1981. To establish his theoretical earnings record we use 95.85467 percent of the national average wage for each of the years 1951 through 1981. Since national average wage data is not available for 1981, for that year we attribute 95.85467 percent of the national average wage for 1980 or $11,994.74. His theoretical earnings record would look like this:
1951
$2,683.13
1952
2,850.07
1953
3,009.30
1954
3,024.83
1955
3,164.58
1956
3,385.93
1957
3,490.76
1958
3,521.51
1959
3,695.96
1960
3,841.01
1961
3,917.35
1962
4,113.51
1963
4,214.38
1964
4,386.62
1965
4,465.60
1966
4,733.65
1967
4,997.33
1968
5,340.79
1969
5,649.44
1970
5,929.80
1971
6,227.75
1972
6,838.08
1973
7,265.94
1974
7,697.86
1975
8,273.14
1976
8,844.01
1977
9,374.05
1978
10,118.45
1979
11,003.60
1980
11,994.74
1981
11,994.74
Step 2:
Compute the theoretical PIA: Since C attains age 62 in 1982, we determine his theoretical PIA using an AIME computation. In applying the AIME computation, we index each year's earnings on the theoretical earnings record in accordance with § 404.211(d). In this example, the theoretical PIA is $453.
Step 3:
Compute the pro rata PIA:
Theoretical PIA
− Actual U.S. QC's
calendar quarters in
benefit computation years
$453 − 26 QC's (6
1/2
years)
104 quarters (26 years)
= $113.20 pro rata PIA

# Example 2:
M needs 27 QC's to be insured, but she has only 3 years of work (12 QC's) under the U.S. system. M has enough foreign work, however, to be insured. She attained age 62 in 1978, and her U.S. covered earnings were in 1947, 1948 and 1949. Based on M's date of birth, her theoretical PIA can be computed, in accordance with § 404.220, under a new start method. If M's earnings in 1947, 1948, and 1949 were 50 percent, 60 percent and 70 percent, respectively, of the average wage for each year, her REP would be 60 percent. For each year in the computation period, 60 percent of the average wage for that year will be attributed as M's assumed earnings. The theoretical PIA will then be computed as described in §§ 404.220 through 404.222.
To determine M's pro rata PIA, the theoretical PIA will be multiplied by the ratio of the actual number of U.S. QC's to the number of calendar quarters in the benefit computation years. There are 22 benefit computation years, or 88 quarters. The pro rata PIA would, therefore, be
12/88
× theoretical PIA.
(e)
Rounding of benefits.
(1) If the effective date of the pro rata PIA is before June 1982, we will round to the next higher multiple of 10 cents if it is not already a multiple of 10 cents.
(2) If the effective date of the pro rata PIA is June 1982 or later, we will round to the next lower multiple of 10 cents if it is not already a multiple of 10 cents.
(f)
Auxiliary and survivors benefits; reductions; family maximum.
We will determine auxiliary and survivors benefit amounts (see subpart D) on the basis of the pro rata PIA. We will apply the regular reductions for age under section 202(q) of the Act to the benefits of the worker or to any auxiliaries or survivors which are based on the pro rata PIA (see § 404.410). Benefits will be payable subject to the family maximum (see § 404.403) derived from the pro rata PIA. If the pro rata PIA is less than the minimum PIA, the family maximum will be 1
1/2
times the pro rata PIA.
[49 FR 29775, July 24, 1984]
§ 404.1919
How benefits are recomputed.
Unless otherwise provided in an agreement, we will recompute benefits in accordance with this section. We will recompute the pro rata PIA only if the inclusion of the additional earnings results in an increase in the benefits payable by the U.S. to all persons receiving benefits on the basis of the worker's earnings. Subject to this limitation, the pro rata PIA will be automatically recomputed (see § 404.285) to include additional earnings under the U.S. system. In so doing, a new REP will be established for the worker, taking the additional earnings into account, and assumed earnings in the computation base years used in the original computation will be refigured using the new REP. Assumed earnings will also be determined for the year of additional earnings using the new REP. The additional U.S. earnings will also be used in refiguring the ratio described in § 404.1918(d)(2).
[49 FR 29777, July 24, 1984]
§ 404.1920
Supplementing the U.S. benefit if the total amount of the combined benefits is less than the U.S. minimum benefit.
If a resident of the U.S. receives benefits under an agreement from both the U.S. and from the foreign country, the total amount of the two benefits may be less than the amount for which the resident would qualify under the U.S. system based on the minimum PIA as in effect for persons first becoming eligible for benefits before January 1982. An agreement may provide that in the case of an individual who first becomes eligible for benefits before January 1982, the U.S. will supplement the total amount to raise it to the amount for which the resident would have qualified under the U.S. system based on the minimum PIA. (The minimum benefit
will be based on the first figure in column IV in the table in section 215(a) of the Act for a person becoming eligible for the benefit before January 1, 1979, or the PIA determined under section 215(a)(1)(C)(i)(I) of the Act (as in effect in December 1981) for a person becoming eligible for the benefit after December 31, 1978.)
[49 FR 29777, July 24, 1984]
§ 404.1921
Benefits of less than $1 due.
If the monthly benefit amount due an individual (or several individuals, e.g., children, where several benefits are combined in one check) as a result of a claim filed under an agreement is less than $1, the benefits may be accumulated until they equal or exceed $5.

# Other Provisions
§ 404.1925
Applications.
(a)(1) An application, or written statement requesting benefits, filed with the competent authority or agency of a country with which the U.S. has concluded an agreement shall be considered an application for benefits under title II of the Act as of the date it is filed with the competent authority or agency if—
(i) An applicant expresses or implies an intent to claim benefits from the U.S. under an agreement; and
(ii) The applicant files an application that meets the requirements in subpart G of this part.
(2) The application described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section must be filed, even if it is not specifically provided for in the agreement.
(b) Benefits under an agreement may not be paid on the basis of an application filed before the effective date of the agreement.
§ 404.1926
Evidence.
(a) An applicant for benefits under an agreement shall submit the evidence needed to establish entitlement, as provided in subpart H of this part. Special evidence requirements for disability benefits are in subpart P of this part.
(b) Evidence submitted to the competent authority or agency of a country with which the U.S. has concluded an agreement shall be considered as evidence submitted to SSA. SSA shall use the rules in §§ 404.708 and 404.709 to determine if the evidence submitted is sufficient, or if additional evidence is needed to prove initial or continuing entitlement to benefits.
(c) If an application is filed for disability benefits, SSA shall consider medical evidence submitted to a competent authority or agency, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, and use the rules of subpart P of this part for making a disability determination.
§ 404.1927
Appeals.
(a) A request for reconsideration, hearing, or Appeals Council review of a determination that is filed with the competent authority or agency of a country with which the U.S. has concluded an agreement, shall be considered to have been timely filed with SSA if it is filed within the 60-day time period provided in §§ 404.911, 404.918, and 404.946.
(b) A request for reconsideration, hearing, or Appeals Council review of a determination made by SSA resulting from a claim filed under an agreement shall be subject to the provisions in subpart J of this part. The rules governing administrative finality in subpart J of this part shall also apply.
§ 404.1928
Effect of the alien non-payment provision.
An agreement may provide that a person entitled to benefits under title II of the Social Security Act may receive those benefits while residing in the foreign country party to the agreement, regardless of the alien non-payment provision (see § 404.460).
§ 404.1929
Overpayments.
An agreement may not authorize the adjustment of title II benefits to recover an overpayment made under the social security system of a foreign country (see § 404.501). Where an overpayment is made under the U.S. system, the provisions in subpart F of this part will apply.
§ 404.1930
Disclosure of information.
The use of information furnished under an agreement generally shall be governed by the national statutes on
confidentiality and disclosure of information of the country that has been furnished the information. (The U.S. will be governed by pertinent provisions of the Social Security Act, the Freedom of Information Act, the Privacy Act, the Tax Reform Act, and other related statutes.) In negotiating an agreement, consideration, should be given to the compatibility of the other country's laws on confidentiality and disclosure to those of the U.S. To the extent possible, information exchanged between the U.S. and the foreign country should be used exclusively for purposes of implementing the agreement and the laws to which the agreement pertains.

# Subpart U—Representative Payment

# Authority:
Secs. 205(a), (j), and (k), and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(a), (j), and (k), and 902(a)(5)).

# Source:
47 FR 30472, July 14, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 404.2001
Introduction.
(a)
Explanation of representative payment.
This subpart explains the principles and procedures that we follow in determining whether to make representative payment and in selecting a representative payee. It also explains the responsibilities that a representative payee has concerning the use of the funds he or she receives on behalf of a beneficiary. A representative payee may be either a person or an organization selected by us to receive benefits on behalf of a beneficiary. A representative payee will be selected if we believe that the interest of a beneficiary will be served by representative payment rather than direct payment of benefits. Generally, we appoint a representative payee if we have determined that the beneficiary is not able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments in his or her interest.
(b)
Policy used to determine whether to make representative payment.
(1) Our policy is that every beneficiary has the right to manage his or her own benefits. However, some beneficiaries due to a mental or physical condition or due to their youth may be unable to do so. Under these circumstances, we may determine that the interests of the beneficiary would be better served if we certified benefit payments to another person as a representative payee.
(2) If we determine that representative payment is in the interest of a beneficiary, we will appoint a representative payee. We may appoint a representative payee even if the beneficiary is a legally competent individual. If the beneficiary is a legally incompetent individual, we may appoint the legal guardian or some other person as a representative payee.
(3) If payment is being made directly to a beneficiary and a question arises concerning his or her ability to manage or direct the management of benefit payments, we will, if the beneficiary is 18 years old or older and has not been adjudged legally incompetent, continue to pay the beneficiary until we make a determination about his or her ability to manage or direct the management of benefit payments and the selection of a representative payee.
§ 404.2010
When payment will be made to a representative payee.
(a) We pay benefits to a representative payee on behalf of a beneficiary 18 years old or older when it appears to us that this method of payment will be in the interest of the beneficiary. We do this if we have information that the beneficiary is—
(1) Legally incompetent or mentally incapable of managing benefit payments; or
(2) Physically incapable of managing or directing the management of his or her benefit payments.
(b) Generally, if a beneficiary is under age 18, we will pay benefits to a representative payee. However, in certain situations, we will make direct payments to a beneficiary under age 18 who shows the ability to manage the benefits. For example, we make direct payments to a beneficiary under age 18 if the beneficiary is—
(1) Receiving disability insurance benefits on his or her own Social Security earnings record; or
(2) Serving in the military services; or
(3) Living alone and supporting himself or herself; or
(4) A parent and files for himself or herself and/or his or her child and he or she has experience in handling his or her own finances; or
(5) Capable of using the benefits to provide for his or her current needs and no qualified payee is available; or
(6) Within 7 months of attaining age 18 and is initially filing an application for benefits.
[47 FR 30472, July 14, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 35483, Aug. 28, 1989]
§ 404.2011
What happens to your monthly benefits while we are finding a suitable representative payee for you?
(a)
We may pay you directly.
We will pay current monthly benefits directly to you while finding a suitable representative payee unless we determine that paying you directly would cause substantial harm to you. We determine substantial harm as follows:
(1) If you are receiving disability payments and we have determined that you have a drug addiction or alcoholism condition, or you are legally incompetent, or you are under age 15, we will presume that substantial harm exists. However, we will allow you to rebut this presumption by presenting evidence that direct payment would not cause you substantial harm.
(2) If you do not fit any of these categories, we make findings of substantial harm on a case-by-case basis. We consider all matters that may affect your ability to manage your benefits in your own best interest. We decide that substantial harm exists if both of the following conditions exist:
(i) Directly receiving benefits can be expected to cause you serious physical or mental injury.
(ii) The possible effect of the injury would outweigh the effect of having no income to meet your basic needs.
(b)
We may delay or suspend your payments.
If we find that direct payment will cause substantial harm to you, we may delay (in the case of initial entitlement to benefits) or suspend (in the case of existing entitlement to benefits) payments for as long as one month while we try to find a suitable representative payee for you. If we do not find a payee within one month, we will pay you directly. If you are receiving disability payments and we have determined that you have a drug addiction and alcoholism condition, or you are legally incompetent, or you are under age 15, we will withhold payment until a representative payee is appointed even if it takes longer than one month. We will, however, as noted in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, allow you to present evidence to rebut the presumption that direct payment would cause you substantial harm. See § 404.2001(b)(3) for our policy on suspending benefits if you are currently receiving benefits directly.

# Example 1: Substantial Harm Exists.
We are unable to find a representative payee for Mr. X, a 67 year old retirement beneficiary who is an alcoholic. Based on contacts with the doctor and beneficiary, we determine that Mr. X was hospitalized recently for his drinking. Paying him directly will cause serious injury, so we may delay payment for as long as one month based on substantial harm while we locate a suitable representative payee.

# Example 2: Substantial Harm Does Not Exist.
We approve a claim for Mr. Y, a title II claimant who suffers from a combination of mental impairments but who is not legally incompetent. We determine that Mr. Y needs assistance in managing his benefits, but we have not found a representative payee. Although we believe that Mr. Y may not use the money wisely, there is no indication that receiving funds directly would cause him substantial harm (
i.e.
, serious physical or mental injury). We must pay current benefits directly to Mr. Y while we locate a suitable representative payee.
(c)
How we pay delayed or suspended benefits.
Payment of benefits, which were delayed or suspended pending appointment of a representative payee, can be made to you or your representative payee as a single sum or in installments when we determine that installments are in your best interest.
[69 FR 60232, Oct. 7, 2004]
§ 404.2015
Information considered in determining whether to make representative payments.
In determining whether to make representative payment we consider the following information:
(a)
Court determinations.
If we learn that a beneficiary has been found to be legally incompetent, a certified copy of the court's determination will be the
basis of our determination to make representative payment.
(b)
Medical evidence.
When available, we will use medical evidence to determine if a beneficiary is capable of managing or directing the management of benefit payments. For example, a statement by a physician or other medical professional based upon his or her recent examination of the beneficiary and his or her knowledge of the beneficiary's present condition will be used in our determination, if it includes information concerning the nature of the beneficiary's illness, the beneficiary's chances for recovery and the opinion of the physician or other medical professional as to whether the beneficiary is able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments.
(c)
Other evidence.
We will also consider any statements of relatives, friends and other people in a position to know and observe the beneficiary, which contain information helpful to us in deciding whether the beneficiary is able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments.
§ 404.2018
Advance designation of representative payees.
(a)
General.
An individual who:
(1) Is entitled to or an applicant for a benefit and;
(2) Has attained 18 years of age or is an emancipated minor, may designate in advance one or more individuals to possibly serve as a representative payee for the individual if we determine that payment will be made to a representative payee (see § 404.2010(a)). An individual may not designate in advance possible representative payees if we have information that the individual is either-legally incompetent or mentally incapable of managing his or her benefit payments; or physically incapable of managing or directing the management of his or her benefit payments.
(b)
How to designate possible representative payees in advance.
Individuals who meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section may designate in advance their choice(s) for possible representative payees by indicating their decision to designate a representative payee in advance and providing us with the required information. In addition to the required information, an individual may choose to provide us with the relationship of the advance designee(s) to the individual. The information we require before we will consider an advance designee as a possible representative payee is:
(1) The name of the advance designee,
(2) A telephone number of the advance designee, and
(3) The order of priority in which the individual would like us to consider the advance designees, if he or she designates more than one advance designee.
(c)
How to make changes to advance designation.
Individuals who meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section may change their advance designees by informing us of the change and providing the required information (see paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section) to us. Individuals who meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section may withdraw their advance designation by informing us of the withdrawal.
(d)
How we consider advance designation when we select a representative payee.
(1) If we determine that payment will be made to a representative payee, we will review an individual's advance designees in the order listed by the individual and select the first advance designee who meets the criteria for selection. To meet the criteria for selection—
(i) The advance designee must be willing and able to serve as a representative payee,
(ii) Appointment of the advance designee must comply with the requirements in section 205(j)(2) of the Social Security Act, and
(iii) There must be no other good cause (see §§ 404.2020 and 404.2021) to prevent us from selecting the advance designee.
(2) If none of the advance designees meet the criteria for selection, we will use our list of categories of preferred payees (see § 404.2021), along with our other regulations in subpart U of this part, as a guide to select a suitable representative payee.
(e)
How we consider advance designation when we select a subsequent representative payee.
If an individual who currently has a representative payee
requires a change of representative payee, we will consider any other designees identified by the individual at a time in which that individual was eligible to make an advanced designation, under paragraph (d) of this section.
(f)
Organizations.
An individual may not designate in advance an organization to serve as his or her possible representative payee.
[85 FR 7664, Feb. 11, 2020]
§ 404.2020
Information considered in selecting a representative payee.
In selecting a payee we try to select the person, agency, organization or institution that will best serve the interest of the beneficiary. In making our selection we consider—
(a) The relationship of the person to the beneficiary;
(b) The amount of interest that the person shows in the beneficiary;
(c) Any legal authority the person, agency, organization or institution has to act on behalf of the beneficiary;
(d) Whether the potential payee has custody of the beneficiary;
(e) Whether the potential payee is in a position to know of and look after the needs of the beneficiary;
(f) The potential payee's criminal history; and
(g) Whether the beneficiary made an advance designation (see § 404.2018).
[47 FR 30472, July 14, 1982, as amended at 84 FR 4325, Feb. 15, 2019; 85 FR 7664, Feb. 11, 2020]
§ 404.2021
What is our order of preference in selecting a representative payee for you?
As a guide in selecting a representative payee, we have established categories of preferred payees. These preferences are flexible. We will consider an individual's advance designee(s) (see § 404.2018) before we consider other potential representative payees in the categories of preferred payees listed in this section. When we select a representative payee, we will choose the designee of the beneficiary's highest priority, provided that the designee is willing and able to serve, is not prohibited from serving (see § 404.2022), and supports the best interest of the beneficiary (see § 404.2020). The preferences are:
(a) For beneficiaries 18 years old or older (except those described in paragraph (b) of this section), our preference is—
(1) A legal guardian, spouse (or other relative) who has custody of the beneficiary or who demonstrates strong concern for the personal welfare of the beneficiary;
(2) A friend who has custody of the beneficiary or demonstrates strong concern for the personal welfare of the beneficiary;
(3) A public or nonprofit agency or institution having custody of the beneficiary;
(4) A private institution operated for profit and licensed under State law, which has custody of the beneficiary; and
(5) Persons other than above who are qualified to carry out the responsibilities of a payee and who are able and willing to serve as a payee for a beneficiary; e.g., members of community groups or organizations who volunteer to serve as payee for a beneficiary.
(b) For individuals who are disabled and who have a drug addiction or alcoholism condition our preference is—
(1) A community-based nonprofit social service agency which is licensed by the State, or bonded;
(2) A Federal, State, or local government agency whose mission is to carry out income maintenance, social service, or health care-related activities;
(3) A State or local government agency with fiduciary responsibilities;
(4) A designee of an agency (other than a Federal agency) referred to in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, if appropriate; or
(5) A family member.
(c) For beneficiaries under age 18, our preference is—
(1) A natural or adoptive parent who has custody of the beneficiary, or a guardian;
(2) A natural or adoptive parent who does not have custody of the beneficiary, but is contributing toward the beneficiary's support and is demonstrating strong concern for the beneficiary's well being;
(3) A natural or adoptive parent who does not have custody of the beneficiary and is not contributing toward his or her support but is demonstrating
strong concern for the beneficiary's well being;
(4) A relative or stepparent who has custody of the beneficiary;
(5) A relative who does not have custody of the beneficiary but is contributing toward the beneficiary's support and is demonstrating concern for the beneficiary's well being;
(6) A relative or close friend who does not have custody of the beneficiary but is demonstrating concern for the beneficiary's well being; and
(7) An authorized social agency or custodial institution.
[47 FR 30472, July 14, 1982; 47 FR 32936, July 30, 1982, as amended at 69 FR 60232, Oct. 7, 2004; 85 FR 7664, Feb. 11, 2020]
§ 404.2022
Who may not serve as a representative payee?
A representative payee applicant may not serve if he/she:
(a) Has been convicted of a violation under section 208, 811 or 1632 of the Social Security Act.
(b) Has been convicted of an offense resulting in imprisonment for more than 1 year. However, we may make an exception to this prohibition, if the nature of the conviction is such that selection of the applicant poses no risk to the beneficiary and the exception is in the beneficiary's best interest.
(c) Receives title II, VIII, or XVI benefits through a representative payee.
(d) Previously served as a representative payee and was found by us, or a court of competent jurisdiction, to have misused title II, VIII or XVI benefits. However, if we decide to make an exception to this prohibition, we must evaluate the payee's performance at least every 3 months until we are satisfied that the payee poses no risk to the beneficiary's best interest. Exceptions are made on a case-by-case basis if all of the following are true:
(1) Direct payment of benefits to the beneficiary is not in the beneficiary's best interest.
(2) No suitable alternative payee is available.
(3) Selecting the payee applicant as representative payee would be in the best interest of the beneficiary.
(4) The information we have indicates the applicant is now suitable to serve as a representative payee.
(5) The payee applicant has repaid the misused benefits or has a plan to repay them.
(e) Is a creditor. A creditor is someone who provides you with goods or services for consideration. This restriction does not apply to the creditor who poses no risk to you and whose financial relationship with you presents no substantial conflict of interest, and who is any of the following:
(1) A relative living in the same household as you do.
(2) Your legal guardian or legal representative.
(3) A facility that is licensed or certified as a care facility under the law of a State or a political subdivision of a State.
(4) A qualified organization authorized to collect a monthly fee from you for expenses incurred in providing representative payee services for you, under § 404.2040a.
(5) An administrator, owner, or employee of the facility in which you live, and we are unable to locate an alternative representative payee.
(6) Any other individual we deem appropriate based on a written determination.

# Example 1:
Sharon applies to be representative payee for Ron who we have determined cannot manage his benefits. Sharon has been renting a room to Ron for several years and assists Ron in handling his other financial obligations, as needed. She charges Ron a reasonable amount of rent. Ron has no other family or friends willing to help manage his benefits or to act as representative payee. Sharon has demonstrated that her interest in and concern for Ron goes beyond her desire to collect the rent each month. In this instance, we may select Sharon as Ron's representative payee because a more suitable payee is not available, she appears to pose no risk to Ron and there is minimal conflict of interest. We will document this decision.

# Example 2:
In a situation similar to the one above, Ron's landlord indicates that she is applying to be payee only to ensure receipt of her rent. If there is money left after payment of the rent, she will give it directly to Ron to manage on his own. In this situation, we would not select the landlord as Ron's representative payee because of the substantial conflict of interest and lack of interest in his well being.
(f) Was convicted under Federal or State law of a felony for: Human trafficking, false imprisonment, kidnapping, rape or sexual assault, first-degree homicide, robbery, fraud to obtain access to government assistance, fraud by scheme, theft of government funds or property, abuse or neglect, forgery, or identity theft or identity fraud. We will also apply this provision to a representative payee applicant with a felony conviction of an attempt to commit any of these crimes or conspiracy to commit any of these crimes.
(1) If the representative payee applicant is the custodial parent of a minor child beneficiary, custodial parent of a beneficiary who is under a disability which began before the beneficiary attained the age of 22, custodial spouse of a beneficiary, custodial court-appointed guardian of a beneficiary, or custodial grandparent of the minor child beneficiary for whom the applicant is applying to serve as representative payee, we will not consider the conviction for one of the crimes, or of attempt or conspiracy to commit one of the crimes, listed in this paragraph (f), by itself, to prohibit the applicant from serving as a representative payee. We will consider the criminal history of an applicant in this category, along with the factors in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, when we decide whether it is in the best interest of the individual entitled to benefits to appoint the applicant as a representative payee.
(2) If the representative payee applicant is the parent who was previously the representative payee for his or her minor child who has since turned age 18 and continues to be eligible for benefits, we will not consider the conviction for one of the crimes, or of attempt or conspiracy to commit one of the crimes, listed in this paragraph (f), by itself, to prohibit the applicant from serving as a representative payee for that beneficiary. We will consider the criminal history of an applicant in this category, along with the factors in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, when we decide whether it is in the best interest of the individual entitled to benefits to appoint the applicant as a representative payee.
(3) If the representative payee applicant received a Presidential or gubernatorial pardon for the relevant conviction, we will not consider the conviction for one of the crimes, or of attempt or conspiracy to commit one of the crimes, listed in this paragraph (f), by itself, to prohibit the applicant from serving as a representative payee. We will consider the criminal history of an applicant in this category, along with the factors in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, when we decide whether it is in the best interest of the individual entitled to benefits to appoint the applicant as a representative payee.
[69 FR 60232, Oct. 7, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 61407, Oct. 18, 2006; 84 FR 4325, Feb. 15, 2019]
§ 404.2024
How do we investigate a representative payee applicant?
Before selecting an individual or organization to act as your representative payee, we will perform an investigation.
(a)
Nature of the investigation.
As part of the investigation, we do the following:
(1) Conduct a face-to-face interview with the payee applicant unless it is impracticable as explained in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Require the payee applicant to submit documented proof of identity, unless information establishing identity has recently been submitted with an application for title II, VIII or XVI benefits.
(3) Verify the payee applicant's Social Security account number or employer identification number.
(4) Determine whether the payee applicant has been convicted of a violation of section 208, 811 or 1632 of the Social Security Act.
(5) Determine whether the payee applicant has previously served as a representative payee and if any previous appointment as payee was revoked or terminated for misusing title II, VIII or XVI benefits.
(6) Use our records to verify the payee applicant's employment and/or direct receipt of title II, VIII, or XVI benefits.
(7) Verify the payee applicant's concern for the beneficiary with the beneficiary's custodian or other interested person.
(8) Require the payee applicant to provide adequate information showing his or her relationship to the beneficiary and to describe his or her responsibility for the care of the beneficiary.
(9) Determine whether the payee applicant is a creditor of the beneficiary (see § 404.2022(e)).
(10) Conduct a criminal background check on the individual payee applicant.
(b)
Subsequent face-to-face interviews.
After holding a face-to-face interview with a payee applicant, subsequent face-to-face interviews are not required if that applicant continues to be qualified and currently is acting as a payee, unless we determine, within our discretion, that a new face-to-face interview is necessary. We base this decision on the payee's past performance and knowledge of and compliance with our reporting requirements.
(c)
Impracticable.
We may consider a face-to-face interview impracticable if it would cause the payee applicant undue hardship. For example, the payee applicant would have to travel a great distance to the field office. In this situation, we may conduct the investigation to determine the payee applicant's suitability to serve as a representative payee without a face-to-face interview.
[69 FR 60233, Oct. 7, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 66521, Nov. 10, 2008; 84 FR 4325, Feb. 15, 2019; 84 FR 57319, Oct. 25, 2019]
§ 404.2025
What information must a representative payee report to us?
Anytime after we select a representative payee for you, we may ask your payee to give us information showing a continuing relationship with you, a continuing responsibility for your care, and how he/she used the payments on your behalf. If your representative payee does not give us the requested information within a reasonable period of time, we may stop sending your benefit payment to him/her—unless we determine that he/she had a satisfactory reason for not meeting our request and we subsequently receive the requested information. If we decide to stop sending your payment to your representative payee, we will consider paying you directly (in accordance with § 404.2011) while we look for a new payee.
[69 FR 60233, Oct. 7, 2004]
§ 404.2026
How do we investigate an appointed representative payee?
After we select an individual to act as your representative payee, we will conduct a criminal background check on the appointed representative payee at least once every 5 years.
[84 FR 4325, Feb. 15, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 57319, Oct. 25, 2019]
§ 404.2030
How will we notify you when we decide you need a representative payee?
(a) We notify you in writing of our determination to make representative payment. This advance notice explains that we have determined that representative payment is in your interest, and it provides the name of the representative payee we have selected. We provide this notice before we actually appoint the payee. If you are under age 15, an unemancipated minor under the age of 18, or legally incompetent, our written notice goes to your legal guardian or legal representative. The advance notice:
(1) Contains language that is easily understandable to the reader.
(2) Identifies the person designated as your representative payee.
(3) Explains that you, your legal guardian, or your legal representative can appeal our determination that you need a representative payee.
(4) Explains that you, your legal guardian, or your legal representative can appeal our designation of a particular person or organization to serve as your representative payee.
(5) Explains that you, your legal guardian, or your legal representative can review the evidence upon which our designation of a particular representative payee is based and submit additional evidence.
(b) If you, your legal guardian, or your legal representative objects to representative payment or to the designated payee, we will handle the objection as follows:
(1) If you disagree with the decision and wish to file an appeal, we will process it under subpart J of this part.
(2) If you received your advance notice by mail and you protest or file your appeal within 10 days after you receive this notice, we will delay the action until we make a decision on your protest or appeal. (If you received and signed your notice while you were in the local field office, our decision will be effective immediately.)
[69 FR 60233, Oct. 7, 2004]
§ 404.2035
What are the responsibilities of your representative payee?
A representative payee has a responsibility to—
(a) Use the benefits received on your behalf only for your use and benefit in a manner and for the purposes he or she determines, under the guidelines in this subpart, to be in your best interests;
(b) Keep any benefits received on your behalf separate from his or her own funds and show your ownership of these benefits unless he or she is your spouse or natural or adoptive parent or stepparent and lives in the same household with you or is a State or local government agency for whom we have granted an exception to this requirement;
(c) Treat any interest earned on the benefits as your property;
(d) Notify us of any event or change in your circumstances that will affect the amount of benefits you receive, your right to receive benefits, or how you receive them;
(e) Submit to us, upon our request, a written report accounting for the benefits received on your behalf, and make all supporting records available for review if requested by us; and
(f) Notify us of any change in his or her circumstances that would affect performance of his/her payee responsibilities.
[71 FR 61407, Oct. 18, 2006]
§ 404.2040
Use of benefit payments.
(a)
Current maintenance.
(1) We will consider that payments we certify to a representative payee have been used for the use and benefit of the beneficiary if they are used for the beneficiary's current maintenance. Current maintenance includes cost incurred in obtaining food, shelter, clothing, medical care, and personal comfort items.

# Example:
An aged beneficiary is entitled to a monthly Social Security benefit of $400. Her son, who is her payee, disburses her benefits in the following manner:
Rent and utilities
$200
Medical
25
Food
60
Clothing (coat)
55
Savings
30
Miscellaneous
30
The above expenditures would represent proper disbursements on behalf of the beneficiary.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if a beneficiary is a member of an Aid to Families With Dependent Children (AFDC) assistance unit, we do not consider it inappropriate for a representative payee to make the benefit payments available to the AFDC assistance unit.
(b)
Institutional care.
If a beneficiary is receiving care in a Federal, State, or private institution because of mental or physical incapacity, current maintenance includes the customary charges made by the institution, as well as expenditures for those items which will aid in the beneficiary's recovery or release from the institution or expenses for personal needs which will improve the beneficiary's conditions while in the institution.

# Example:
An institutionalized beneficiary is entitled to a monthly Social Security benefit of $320. The institution charges $700 a month for room and board. The beneficiary's brother, who is the payee, learns the beneficiary needs new shoes and does not have any funds to purchase miscellaneous items at the institution's canteen.
The payee takes his brother to town and buys him a pair of shoes for $29. He also takes the beneficiary to see a movie which costs $3. When they return to the institution, the payee gives his brother $3 to be used at the canteen.
Although the payee normally withholds only $25 a month from Social Security benefit for the beneficiary's personal needs, this month the payee deducted the above expenditures and paid the institution $10 less than he usually pays.
The above expenditures represent what we would consider to be proper expenditures for current maintenance.
(c)
Support of legal dependents.
If the current maintenance needs of the beneficiary are met, the payee may use part of the payments for the support of the beneficiary's legally dependent spouse, child, and/or parent.

# Example:
A disabled beneficiary receives a Veterans Administration (VA) benefit of $325 and a Social Security benefit of $525. The beneficiary resides in a VA hospital and his VA benefits are sufficient to provide for all of his needs;
i.e.
, cost of care and personal needs. The beneficiary's legal dependents—his wife and two children—have a total income of $250 per month in Social Security benefits. However, they have expenses of approximately $450 per month.
Because the VA benefits are sufficient to meet the beneficiary's needs, it would be appropriate to use part of his Social Security benefits to support his dependents.
(d)
Claims of creditors.
A payee may not be required to use benefit payments to satisfy a debt of the beneficiary, if the debt arose prior to the first month for which payments are certified to a payee. If the debt arose prior to this time, a payee may satisfy it only if the current and reasonably foreseeable needs of the beneficiary are met.

# Example:
A retroactive Social Security check in the amount of $1,640, representing benefits due for July 1980 through January 1981, was issued on behalf of the beneficiary to the beneficiary's aunt who is the representative payee. The check was certified in February 1981.
The nursing home, where the beneficiary resides, submitted a bill for $1,139 to the payee for maintenance expenses the beneficiary incurred during the period from June 1980 through November 1980. (Maintenance charges for December 1980 through February 1981 had previously been paid.)
Because the benefits were not required for the beneficiary's current maintenance, the payee had previously saved over $500 for the beneficiary and the beneficiary had no foreseeable needs which would require large disbursements, the expenditure for the maintenance charges would be consistent with our guidelines.
[47 FR 30472, July 14, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 35483, Aug. 28, 1989]
§ 404.2040a
Compensation for qualified organizations serving as representative payees.
(a)
Organizations that can request compensation.
A qualified organization can request us to authorize it to collect a monthly fee from your benefit payment. A qualified organization is:
(1) Any State or local government agency with fiduciary responsibilities or whose mission is to carry out income maintenance, social service, or health care-related activities; or
(2) Any community-based nonprofit social service organization founded for religious, charitable or social welfare purposes, which is tax exempt under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code and which is bonded/insured to cover misuse and embezzlement by officers and employees and which is licensed in each State in which it serves as representative payee (if licensing is available in the State). The minimum amount of bonding or insurance coverage must equal the average monthly amount of social security payments received by the organization plus the amount of the beneficiaries' conserved funds (
i.e.
, beneficiaries' saved social security benefits) plus interest on hand. For example, an organization that has conserved funds of $5,000 and receives an average of $12,000 a month in social security payments must be bonded/insured for a minimum of $17,000. The license must be appropriate under the laws of the State for the type of services the organization provides. An example of an appropriately licensed organization is a community mental health center holding a State license to provide community mental health services.
(b)
Requirements qualified organizations must meet.
Organizations that are qualified under paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section must also meet the following requirements before we can authorize them to collect a monthly fee.
(1) A qualified organization must regularly provide representative payee services concurrently to at least five beneficiaries. An organization which has received our authorization to collect a fee for representative payee services, but is temporarily (not more than 6 months) not a payee for at least five beneficiaries, may request our approval to continue to collect fees.
(2) A qualified organization must demonstrate that it is not a creditor of the beneficiary. See paragraph (c) of
this section for exceptions to the requirement regarding creditors.
(c)
Creditor relationship.
On a case-by-case basis, we may authorize an organization to collect a fee for payee services despite the creditor relationship. (For example, the creditor is the beneficiary's landlord.) To provide this authorization, we will review all of the evidence submitted by the organization and authorize collection of a fee when:
(1) The creditor services (e.g., providing housing) provided by the organization help to meet the current needs of the beneficiary; and
(2) The amount the organization charges the beneficiary for these services is commensurate with the beneficiary's ability to pay.
(d)
Authorization process.
(1) An organization must request in writing and receive an authorization from us
before
it may collect a fee.
(2) An organization seeking authorization to collect a fee must also give us evidence to show that it is qualified, pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, to collect a fee.
(3) If the evidence provided to us by the organization shows that it meets the requirements of this section, and additional investigation by us proves it suitable to serve, we will notify the organization in writing that it is authorized to collect a fee. If we need more evidence, or if we are not able to authorize the collection of a fee, we will also notify the organization in writing that we have not authorized the collection of a fee.
(e)
Revocation and cancellation of the authorization.
(1) We will revoke an authorization to collect a fee if we have evidence which establishes that an organization no longer meets the requirements of this section. We will issue a written notice to the organization explaining the reason(s) for the revocation.
(2) An organization may cancel its authorization at any time upon written notice to us.
(f)
Notices.
The written notice we will send to an organization authorizing the collection of a fee will contain an effective date for the collection of a fee pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section. The effective date will be no earlier than the month in which the organization asked for authorization to collect a fee. The notice will be applicable to all beneficiaries for whom the organization was payee at the time of our authorization and all beneficiaries for whom the organization becomes payee while the authorization is in effect.
(g)
Limitation on fees.
(1) An organization authorized to collect a fee under this section may collect from a beneficiary a monthly fee for expenses (including overhead) it has incurred in providing payee services to a beneficiary. The limit on the fee a qualified organization may collect for providing payee services increases by the same percentage as the annual cost of living adjustment (COLA). The increased fee amount (rounded to the nearest dollar) is taken beginning with the benefit for December (received in January).
(2) Any agreement providing for a fee in excess of the amount permitted shall be void and treated as misuse of your benefits by the organization under § 404.2041.
(3) A fee may be collected for any month during which the organization—
(i) Provides representative payee services;
(ii) Receives a benefit payment for the beneficiary; and
(iii) Is authorized to receive a fee for representative payee services.
(4) Fees for services may not be taken from any funds conserved for the beneficiary by a payee in accordance with § 404.2045.
(5) Generally, an organization may not collect a fee for months in which it does not receive a benefit payment. However, an organization will be allowed to collect a fee for months in which it did not receive a payment if we later issue payment for these months and the organization:
(i) Received our approval to collect a fee for the months for which payment is made;
(ii) Provided payee services in the months for which payment is made; and
(iii) Was the payee when the retroactive payment was paid by us.
(6) Fees for services may not be taken from beneficiary benefits for the months for which we or a court of competent jurisdiction determine(s) that
the representative payee misused benefits. Any fees collected for such months will be treated as a part of the beneficiary's misused benefits.
(7) An authorized organization can collect a fee for providing representative payee services from another source if the total amount of the fee collected from both the beneficiary and the other source does not exceed the amount authorized by us.
[69 FR 60234, Oct. 7, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 61407, Oct. 18, 2006]
§ 404.2041
Who is liable if your representative payee misuses your benefits?
(a) A representative payee who misuses your benefits is responsible for paying back misused benefits. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain restitution of misused benefits so that we can repay these benefits to you.
(b) Whether or not we have obtained restitution from the misuser, we will repay benefits in cases when we determine that a representative payee misused benefits and the representative payee is an organization or an individual payee serving 15 or more beneficiaries. When we make restitution, we will pay you or your alternative representative payee an amount equal to the misused benefits less any amount we collected from the misuser and repaid to you.
(c) Whether or not we have obtained restitution from the misuser, we will repay benefits in cases when we determine that an individual representative payee serving 14 or fewer beneficiaries misused benefits and our negligent failure in the investigation or monitoring of that representative payee results in the misuse. When we make restitution, we will pay you or your alternative representative payee an amount equal to the misused benefits less any amount we collected from the misuser and repaid to you.
(d) The term “negligent failure” used in this subpart means that we failed to investigate or monitor a representative payee or that we did investigate or monitor a representative payee but did not follow established procedures in our investigation or monitoring. Examples of our negligent failure include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) We did not follow our established procedures in this subpart when investigating, appointing, or monitoring a representative payee;
(2) We did not timely investigate a reported allegation of misuse; or
(3) We did not take the necessary steps to prevent the issuance of payments to the representative payee after it was determined that the payee misused benefits.
(e) Our repayment of misused benefits under these provisions does not alter the representative payee's liability and responsibility as described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(f) Any amounts that the representative payee misuses and does not refund will be treated as an overpayment to that representative payee. See subpart F of this part.
[69 FR 60234, Oct. 7, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 61408, Oct. 18, 2006]
§ 404.2045
Conservation and investment of benefit payments.
(a)
General.
After the representative payee has used benefit payments consistent with the guidelines in this subpart (see § 404.2040 regarding use of benefits), any remaining amount shall be conserved or invested on behalf of the beneficiary. Conserved funds should be invested in accordance with the rules followed by trustees. Any investment must show clearly that the payee holds the property in trust for the beneficiary.

# Example:
A State institution for children with intellectual disability, which is receiving Medicaid funds, is representative payee for several Social Security beneficiaries. The checks the payee receives are deposited into one account which shows that the benefits are held in trust for the beneficiaries. The institution has supporting records which show the share each individual has in the account. Funds from this account are disbursed fairly quickly after receipt for the current support and maintenance of the beneficiaries as well as for miscellaneous needs the beneficiaries may have. Several of the beneficiaries have significant accumulated resources in this account. For those beneficiaries whose benefits have accumulated over $150, the funds should be deposited in an interest-bearing account or invested relatively free of risk on behalf of the beneficiaries.
(b)
Preferred investments.
Preferred investments for excess funds are U.S. Savings Bonds and deposits in an interest or dividend paying account in a bank, trust company, credit union, or savings and loan association which is insured under either Federal or State law. The account must be in a form which shows clearly that the representative payee has only a fiduciary and not a personal interest in the funds. If the payee is the legally appointed guardian or fiduciary of the beneficiary, the account may be established to indicate this relationship. If the payee is not the legally appointed guardian or fiduciary, the accounts may be established as follows:
(1) For U.S. Savings Bonds—
______ (Name of beneficiary) ______ (Social Security Number), for whom ___ (Name of payee) is representative payee for Social Security benefits;
(2) For interest or dividend paying accounts—
______ (Name of beneficiary) by ______ (Name of payee), representative payee.
(c)
Interest and dividend payments.
The interest and dividends which result from an investment are the property of the beneficiary and may not be considered to be the property of the payee.
[47 FR 30472, July 14, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 35483, Aug. 28, 1989; 78 FR 46501, Aug. 1, 2013]
§ 404.2050
When will we select a new representative payee for you?
When we learn that your interest is not served by sending your benefit payment to your present representative payee or that your present payee is no longer able or willing to carry out payee responsibilities, we will promptly stop sending your payment to the payee. We will then send your benefit payment to an alternative payee or directly to you, until we find a suitable payee. We may suspend payment as explained in § 404.2011(c) if we find that paying you directly would cause substantial harm and we cannot find a suitable alternative representative payee before your next payment is due. We will terminate payment of benefits to your representative payee and find a new payee or pay you directly if the present payee:
(a) Has been found by us or a court of competent jurisdiction to have misused your benefits;
(b) Has not used the benefit payments on your behalf in accordance with the guidelines in this subpart;
(c) Has not carried out the other responsibilities described in this subpart;
(d) Dies;
(e) No longer wishes to be your payee;
(f) Is unable to manage your benefit payments; or
(g) Fails to cooperate, within a reasonable time, in providing evidence, accounting, or other information we request.
[69 FR 60235, Oct. 7, 2004]
§ 404.2055
When representative payment will be stopped.
If a beneficiary receiving representative payment shows us that he or she is mentally and physically able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments, we will make direct payment. Information which the beneficiary may give us to support his or her request for direct payment include the following—
(a) A physician's statement regarding the beneficiary's condition, or a statement by a medical officer of the institution where the beneficiary is or was confined, showing that the beneficiary is able to manage or direct the management of his or her funds; or
(b) A certified copy of a court order restoring the beneficiary's rights in a case where a beneficiary was adjudged legally incompetent; or
(c) Other evidence which establishes the beneficiary's ability to manage or direct the management of benefits.
§ 404.2060
Transfer of accumulated benefit payments.
A representative payee who has conserved or invested benefit payments shall transfer these funds and the interest earned from the invested funds to either a successor payee, to the beneficiary, or to us, as we will specify. If the funds and the earned interest are returned to us, we will recertify them
to a successor representative payee or to the beneficiary.
[47 FR 30472, July 14, 1982; 47 FR 34781, Aug. 11, 1982, as amended at 75 FR 7552, Feb. 22, 2010]
§ 404.2065
How does your representative payee account for the use of benefits?
(a) Your representative payee must account for the use of your benefits. We require written reports from your representative payee at least once a year (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and for certain State institutions that participate in a separate onsite review program).
(b) Your representative payee is exempt from the accounting requirement when your representative payee is:
(1) A natural or adoptive parent of a minor child entitled to title II benefits who primarily resides in the same household as the beneficiary;
(2) A legal guardian of a minor child entitled to title II benefits who primarily resides in the same household as the beneficiary;
(3) A natural or adoptive parent of a disabled individual (as defined in section 223(d) of the Act) entitled to title II benefits who primarily resides in the same household as the beneficiary; or
(4) The spouse of an individual entitled to title II benefits.
(c) We may verify how your representative payee used your benefits. Your representative payee should keep records of how benefits were used in order to make accounting reports and must make those records available upon our request. If your representative payee fails to provide an annual accounting of benefits or other required reports, we may require your payee to receive your benefits in person at the local Social Security field office or a United States Government facility that we designate serving the area in which you reside. The decision to have your representative payee receive your benefits in person may be based on a variety of reasons. Some of these reasons may include the payee's history of past performance or our past difficulty in contacting the payee. We may ask your representative payee to give us the following information:
(1) Where you lived during the accounting period;
(2) Who made the decisions on how your benefits were spent or saved;
(3) How your benefit payments were used; and
(4) How much of your benefit payments were saved and how the savings were invested.
[87 FR 35653, June 13, 2022]

# Subpart V—Payments for Vocational Rehabilitation Services

# Authority:
Secs. 205(a), 222, and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(a), 422, and 902(a)(5)).

# Source:
48 FR 6293, Feb. 10, 1983, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 404.2101
General.
Section 222(d) of the Social Security Act authorizes the transfer from the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund of such sums as may be necessary to pay for the reasonable and necessary costs of vocational rehabilitation (VR) services provided certain disabled individuals entitled under section 223, 225(b), 202(d), 202(e) or 202(f) of the Social Security Act. The purpose of this provision is to make VR services more readily available to disabled individuals and ensure that savings accrue to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund. Payment will be made for VR services provided on behalf of such an individual in cases where—
(a) The furnishing of the VR services results in the individual's completion of a continuous 9-month period of substantial gainful activity (SGA) as specified in §§ 404.2110 through 404.2111; or
(b) The individual continues to receive disability payments from us, even though his or her disability has ceased, because of his or her continued participation in an approved VR program which we have determined will increase the likelihood that he or she
will not return to the disability rolls (
see
§ 404.2112).
[68 FR 40123, July 7, 2003]
§ 404.2102
Purpose and scope.
This subpart describes the rules under which the Commissioner will pay the State VR agencies for VR services. Payment will be provided for VR services provided on behalf of disabled individuals under one or more of the provisions discussed in § 404.2101.
(a) Sections 404.2101 through 404.2103 describe the purpose of these regulations and the meaning of terms we frequently use in them.
(b) Section 404.2104 explains how State VR agencies may participate in the payment program under this subpart.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Sections 404.2108 through 404.2109 describe the requirements and conditions under which we will pay a State VR agency under this subpart.
(e) Sections 404.2110 through 404.2111 describe when an individual has completed a continuous period of SGA and when VR services will be considered to have contributed to that period.
(f) Section 404.2112 describes when payment will be made to a VR agency because an individual's disability benefits are continued based on his or her participation in a VR program which we have determined will increase the likelihood that he or she will not return to the disability rolls.
(g) Sections 404.2114 through 404.2115 describe services for which payment will be made.
(h) Section 404.2116 describes the filing deadlines for claims for payment for VR services.
(i) Section 404.2117 describes the payment conditions.
(j) [Reserved]
(k) Section 404.2119 describes how we will make payment to State VR agencies for rehabilitation services.
(l) Sections 404.2120 and 404.2121 describe the audits and the prepayment and postpayment validation reviews we will conduct.
(m) Section 404.2122 discusses confidentiality of information and records.
(n) Section 404.2123 provides for the applicability of other Federal laws and regulations.
(o) Section 404.2127 provides for the resolution of disputes.
[48 FR 6293, Feb. 10, 1983, as amended at 55 FR 8454, Mar. 8, 1990; 59 FR 11912, Mar. 15, 1994; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997; 68 FR 40123, July 7, 2003; 83 FR 62456, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2103
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Accept the beneficiary as a client for VR services
means that the State VR agency determines that the individual is eligible for VR services and places the individual into an active caseload status for development of an individualized written rehabilitation program.
Act
means the Social Security Act, as amended.
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Social Security or the Commissioner's designee.
Disability
means “disability” or “blindness” as defined in sections 216(i) and 223 of the Act.
Disability beneficiary
means a disabled individual who is entitled to benefits under section 223, 202(d), 202(e) or 202(f) of the act or is continuing to receive payment under section 225(b) of the Act after his or her disabling physical or mental impairments have ceased.
Medical recovery
for purposes of this subpart is established when a beneficiary's disability entitlement ceases for any medical reason (other than death). The determination of medical recovery is made by the Commissioner in deciding a beneficiary's continuing entitlement to benefits.
Place the beneficiary into an extended evaluation process
means that the State VR agency determines that an extended evaluation of the individual's VR potential is necessary to determine whether the individual is eligible for VR services and places the individual into an extended evaluation status.
SGA
means substantial gainful activity performed by an individual as defined in §§ 404.1571 through 404.1575 or § 404.1584 of this subpart.
State
means any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands, or Guam. It includes the State VR agency.
Trust Funds
means the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust
Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund.
Vocational rehabilitation services
has the meaning assigned to it under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
VR agency
means an agency of the State which has been designated by the State to provide vocational rehabilitation services under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
Waiting period
means a five consecutive calendar month period throughout which an individual must be under a disability and which must be served before disability benefits can be paid (see § 404.315(d)).
We, us and our
refer to the Social Security Administration (SSA).
[48 FR 6293, Feb. 10, 1983, as amended at 55 FR 8454, Mar. 8, 1990; 59 FR 11912, Mar. 15, 1994; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997; 68 FR 40123, July 7, 2003; 83 FR 62456, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2104
Participation by State VR agencies.
(a)
General.
In order to participate in the payment program under this subpart through its VR agency(ies), a State must have a plan which meets the requirements of title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.
(b)
Participation by States.
(1) The opportunity to participate through its VR agency(ies) with respect to disability beneficiaries in the State will be offered first to the State in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, unless the State has notified us in advance under paragraph (e)(1) of this section of its decision not to participate or to limit such participation.
(2) A State with one or more approved VR agencies may choose to limit participation of those agencies to a certain class(es) of disability beneficiaries. For example, a State with separate VR agencies for the blind and disabled may choose to limit participation to the VR agency for the blind. In such a case, we would give the State, through its VR agency for the blind, the opportunity to participate with respect to blind disability beneficiaries in the State in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. A State that chooses to limit participation of its VR agency(ies) must notify us in advance under paragraph (e)(1) of this section of its decision to limit such participation.
(c)
Opportunity for participation through State VR agencies.
(1) Unless a State has decided not to participate or to limit participation, we will give the State the opportunity to participate through its VR agency(ies) with respect to disability beneficiaries in the State by referring such beneficiaries first to the State VR agency(ies) for necessary VR services. A State, through its VR agency(ies), may participate with respect to any beneficiary so referred by accepting the beneficiary as a client for VR services or placing the beneficiary into an extended evaluation process and notifying us under paragraph (c)(2) of this section of such acceptance or placement.
(2)(i) In order for the State to participate with respect to a disability beneficiary whom we referred to a State VR agency, the State VR agency must notify the appropriate Regional Commissioner (SSA) in writing or through electronic notification of its decision either to accept the beneficiary as a client for VR services or to place the beneficiary into an extended evaluation process. The notice must be received by the appropriate Regional Commissioner (SSA) no later than the close of the fourth month following the month in which we referred the beneficiary to the State VR agency.
(ii) In any case in which a State VR agency notifies the appropriate Regional Commissioner (SSA) in writing within the stated time period under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section of its decision to place the beneficiary into an extended evaluation process, the State VR agency also must notify that Regional Commissioner in writing upon completion of the evaluation of its decision whether or not to accept the beneficiary as a client for VR services. If we receive a notice of a decision by the State VR agency to accept the beneficiary as a client for VR services following the completion of the extended evaluation, the State may continue to participate with respect to such beneficiary.
(d)
Opportunity for limited participation through State VR agencies.
If a State has decided under paragraph (e)(1) of this section to limit participation of its VR agency(ies) to a certain
class(es) of disability beneficiaries in the State, we will give the State the opportunity to participate with respect to such class(es) of disability beneficiaries by referring such beneficiaries first to the State VR agency(ies) for necessary VR services. The State, through its VR agency(ies), may participate with respect to any beneficiary so referred by accepting the beneficiary as a client for VR services or placing the beneficiary into an extended evaluation process and notifying us under paragraph (c)(2) of this section of such acceptance or placement.
(e)
Decision of a State not to participate or to limit participation.
(1) A State may choose not to participate through its VR agency(ies) with respect to any disability beneficiaries in the State, or it may choose to limit participation of its VR agency(ies) to a certain class(es) of disability beneficiaries in the State. A State which decides not to participate or to limit participation must provide advance written notice of that decision to the appropriate Regional Commissioner (SSA). Unless a State specifies a later month, a decision not to participate or to limit participation will be effective beginning with the third month following the month in which the notice of the decision is received by the appropriate Regional Commissioner (SSA). The notice of the State decision must be submitted by an official authorized to act for the State for this purpose. A State must provide to the appropriate Regional Commissioner (SSA) an opinion from the State's Attorney General verifying the authority of the official who sent the notice to act for the State. This opinion will not be necessary if the notice is signed by the Governor of the State.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) A State which has decided not to participate or to limit participation may participate later through its VR agency(ies) in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. A State which decides to resume participation under paragraph (c) of this section must provide advance written notice of that decision to the appropriate Regional Commissioner (SSA). A decision of a State to resume participation under paragraph (c) of this section will be effective beginning with the third month following the month in which the notice of the decision is received by the appropriate Regional Commissioner (SSA) or, if later, with a month specified by the State. The notice of the State decision must be submitted by an official authorized to act for the State as explained in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
[59 FR 11912, Mar. 15, 1994, as amended at 83 FR 62456, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2106
[Reserved]

# Payment Provisions
§ 404.2108
Requirements for payment.
(a) The State VR agency must file a claim for payment in each individual case within the time periods specified in § 404.2116;
(b) The claim for payment must be in a form prescribed by us and contain the following information:
(1) A description of each service provided;
(2) When the service was provided; and
(3) The cost of the service;
(c) The VR services for which payment is being requested must have been provided during the period specified in § 404.2115;
(d) The VR services for which payment is being requested must have been provided under a State plan for VR services approved under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and must be services that are described in § 404.2114;
(e) The individual must meet one of the VR payment provisions specified in § 404.2101;
(f) The State VR agency must maintain, and provide as we may require, adequate documentation of all services and costs for all disability beneficiaries with respect to whom a State VR agency could potentially request payment for services and costs under this subpart; and
(g) The amount to be paid must be reasonable and necessary and be in compliance with the cost guidelines specified in § 404.2117.
[48 FR 6293, Feb. 10, 1983, as amended at 55 FR 8454, Mar. 8, 1990; 59 FR 11914, Mar. 15, 1994; 83 FR 62457, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2109
Responsibility for making payment decisions.
The Commissioner will decide—
(a) Whether a continuous period of 9 months of SGA has been completed;
(b) Whether a disability beneficiary whose disability has ceased should continue to receive benefits under § 404.316(c), 404.337(c), or 404.352(c) for a month after October 1984, based on his or her continued participation in a VR program;
(c) If and when medical recovery has occurred;
(d) Whether documentation of VR services and expenditures is adequate;
(e) If payment is to be based on completion of a continuous 9-month period of SGA, whether the VR services contributed to the continuous period of SGA;
(f) Whether a VR service is a service described in § 404.2114; and
(g) What VR costs were reasonable and necessary and will be paid.
[55 FR 8454, Mar. 8, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 11914, Mar. 15, 1994; 68 FR 40123, July 7, 2003]
§ 404.2110
What we mean by “SGA” and by “a continuous period of 9 months”.
(a)
What we mean by “SGA”.
In determining whether an individual's work is SGA, we will follow the rules in §§ 404.1572 through 404.1575. We will follow these same rules for individuals who are statutorily blind, but we will evaluate the earnings in accordance with the rules in § 404.1584(d).
(b)
What we mean by “a continuous period of 9 months”.
A continuous period of 9 months ordinarily means a period of 9 consecutive calendar months. Exception: When an individual does not perform SGA in 9 consecutive calendar months, he or she will be considered to have done so if—
(1) The individual performs 9 months of SGA within 10 consecutive months and has monthly earnings that meet or exceed the guidelines in § 404.1574(b)(2), or § 404.1584(d) if the individual is statutorily blind; or
(2) The individual performs at least 9 months of SGA within 12 consecutive months, and the reason for not performing SGA in 2 or 3 of those months was due to circumstances beyond his or her control and unrelated to the impairment (e.g., the employer closed down for 3 months).
(c)
What work we consider.
In determining if a continuous period of SGA has been completed, all of an individual's work activity may be evaluated for purposes of this section, including work performed before October 1981, during the waiting period, during the trial work period and after entitlement to disability benefits terminated. We will ordinarily consider only the first 9 months of SGA that occur. The exception will be if an individual who completed 9 months of SGA later stops performing SGA, receives VR services and then performs SGA for a 9-month period. See § 404.2115 for the use of the continuous period in determining payment for VR services.
[48 FR 6293, Feb. 10, 1983, as amended at 55 FR 8454, Mar. 8, 1990]
§ 404.2111
Criteria for determining when VR services will be considered to have contributed to a continuous period of 9 months.
The State VR agency may be paid for VR services if such services contribute to the individual's performance of a continuous 9-month period of SGA. The following criteria apply to individuals who received more than just evaluation services. If a State VR agency claims payment for services to an individual who received only evaluation services, it must establish that the individual's continuous period or medical recovery (if medical recovery occurred before completion of a continuous period) would not have occurred without the services provided. In applying the criteria below, we will consider services described in § 404.2114 that were initiated, coordinated or provided, including services before October 1, 1981.
(a)
Continuous period without medical recovery.
If an individual who has completed a “continuous period” of SGA has not medically recovered as of the date of completion of the period, the determination as to whether VR services contributed will depend on whether the continuous period began one year or less after VR services ended or more than one year after VR services ended.
(1)
One year or less.
Any VR services which significantly motivated or assisted the individual in returning to, or continuing in, SGA will be considered to have contributed to the continuous period.
(2)
More than one year.
(i) If the continuous period was preceded by transitional work activity (employment or self-employment which gradually evolved, with or without periodic interruption, into SGA), and that work activity began less than a year after VR services ended, any VR services which significantly motivated or assisted the individual in returning to, or continuing in, SGA will be considered to have contributed to the continuous period.
(ii) If the continuous period was not preceded by transitional work activity that began less than a year after VR services ended, VR services will be considered to have contributed to the continuous period only if it is reasonable to conclude that the work activity which constitutes a continuous period could not have occurred without the VR services (e.g., training).
(b)
Continuous period with medical recovery occurring before completion.
(1) If an individual medically recovers before a continuous period has been completed, VR services under paragraph (a) of this section will not be payable unless some VR services contributed to the medical recovery. VR services will be considered to have contributed to the medical recovery if—
(i) The individualized written rehabilitation program (IWRP) included medical services; and
(ii) The medical recovery occurred, at least in part, because of these medical services. (For example, the individual's medical recovery was based on improvement in a back condition which, at least in part, stemmed from surgery initiated, coordinated or provided under an IWRP).
(2) In some instances, the State VR agency will not have provided, initiated, or coordinated medical services. If this happens, payment for VR services may still be possible under paragraph (a) of this section if:
(i) The medical recovery was not expected by us; and
(ii) The individual's impairment is determined by us to be of such a nature that any medical services provided would not ordinarily have resulted in, or contributed to, the medical cessation.
[48 FR 6293, Feb. 10, 1983, as amended at 59 FR 11914, Mar. 15, 1994; 83 FR 62457, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2112
Payment for VR services in a case where an individual continues to receive disability payments based on participation in an approved VR program.
Sections 404.1586(g), 404.316(c), 404.337(c), and 404.352(c) explain the criteria we will use in determining if an individual whose disability has ceased should continue to receive disability benefits from us because of his or her continued participation in a VR program. A VR agency can be paid for the cost of VR services provided to an individual if the individual was receiving benefits in a month or months, after October 1984, based on § 404.316(c), § 404.337(c), or § 404.352(c). If this requirement is met, a VR agency can be paid for the costs of VR services provided within the period specified in § 404.2115, subject to the other payment and administrative provisions of this subpart.
[83 FR 62457, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2114
Services for which payment may be made.
(a)
General.
Payment may be made for VR services provided by a State VR agency in accordance with title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, subject to the limitations and conditions in this subpart. VR services for which payment may be made under this subpart include only those services described in paragraph (b) of this section which are—
(1) Necessary to determine an individual's eligibility for VR services or the nature and scope of the services to be provided; or
(2) Provided by a State VR agency under an IWRP, but only if the services could reasonably be expected to motivate or assist the individual in returning to, or continuing in, SGA.
(b)
Specific services.
Payment may be made under this subpart only for the following VR services:
(1) An assessment for determining an individual's eligibility for VR services and vocational rehabilitation needs by qualified personnel, including, if appropriate, an assessment by personnel skilled in rehabilitation technology, and which includes determining—
(i) The nature and extent of the physical or mental impairment(s) and the resultant impact on the individual's employability;
(ii) The likelihood that an individual will benefit from vocational rehabilitation services in terms of employability; and
(iii) An employment goal consistent with the capacities of the individual and employment opportunities;
(2) Counseling and guidance, including personal adjustment counseling, and those referrals and other services necessary to help an individual secure needed services from other agencies;
(3) Physical and mental restoration services necessary to correct or substantially modify a physical or mental condition which is stable or slowly progressive and which constitutes an impediment to suitable employment at or above the SGA level;
(4) Vocational and other training services, including personal and vocational adjustment, books, tools, and other training materials, except that training or training services in institutions of higher education will be covered under this section only if maximum efforts have been made by the State VR agency to secure grant assistance in whole or in part from other sources;
(5) Maintenance expenses that are extra living expenses over and above the individual's normal living expenses and that are incurred solely because of and while the individual is participating in the VR program and that are necessary in order for the individual to benefit from other necessary VR services;
(6) Travel and related expenses necessary to transport an individual for purpose of enabling the individual's participation in other necessary VR services;
(7) Services to family members of a disabled individual only if necessary to the successful vocational rehabilitation of that individual;
(8) Interpreter services and note-taking services for an individual who is deaf and tactile interpreting for an individual who is deaf and blind;
(9) Reader services, rehabilitation teaching services, note-taking services, and orientation and mobility services for an individual who is blind;
(10) Telecommunications, sensory, and other technological aids and devices;
(11) Work-related placement services to secure suitable employment;
(12) Post-employment services necessary to maintain, regain or advance into suitable employment at or above the SGA level;
(13) Occupational licenses, tools, equipment, initial stocks, and supplies;
(14) Rehabilitation technology services; and
(15) Other goods and services that can reasonably be expected to motivate or assist the individual in returning to, or continuing in, SGA.
[59 FR 11915, Mar. 15, 1994, as amended by 83 FR 62457, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2115
When services must have been provided.
(a) In order for the VR agency to be paid, the services must have been provided—
(1) After September 30, 1981;
(2) No earlier than the beginning of the waiting period or the first month of entitlement, if no waiting period is required; and
(3) Before completion of a continuous 9-month period of SGA or termination of entitlement to disability benefits, whichever occurs first.
(b) If an individual who is entitled to disability benefits under this part also is or has been receiving disability or blindness benefits under part 416 of this chapter, the determination as to when services must have been provided may be made under this section or § 416.2215 of this chapter, whichever is advantageous to the State VR agency that is participating in both VR programs.
[55 FR 8455, Mar. 8, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 31025, June 19, 1996; 83 FR 62457, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2116
When claims for payment for VR services must be made (filing deadlines).
The State VR agency must file a claim for payment in each individual case within the following time periods:
(a) A claim for payment for VR services based on the individual's completion of a continuous 9-month period of SGA must be filed within 12 months after the month in which the continuous 9-month period of SGA is completed.
(b) A claim for payment for VR services provided to an individual whose disability benefits were continued after disability has ceased because of that individual's continued participation in a VR program must be filed as follows:
(1) If a written notice requesting that a claim be filed was sent to the State VR agency, a claim must be filed within 90 days following the month in which VR services end, or if later, within 90 days after receipt of the notice.
(2) If no written notice was sent to the State VR agency, a claim must be filed within 12 months after the month in which VR services end.
[55 FR 8455, Mar. 8, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 31025, June 19, 1996; 68 FR 40124, July 7, 2003; 83 FR 62457, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2117
What costs will be paid.
In accordance with section 222(d) of the Social Security Act, the Commissioner will pay the State VR agency for the VR services described in § 404.2114 which were provided during the period described in § 404.2115 and which meet the criteria in § 404.2111 or § 404.2112, but subject to the following limitations:
(a) The cost must have been incurred by the State VR agency;
(b) The cost must not have been paid or be payable from some other source. For this purpose, State VR agencies will be required to seek payment or services from other sources in accordance with the “similar benefit” provisions under 34 CFR part 361, including making maximum efforts to secure grant assistance in whole or part from other sources for training or training services in institutions of higher education.
(c)(1) The cost must be reasonable and necessary, in that it complies with the written cost-containment policies of the State VR agency. A cost which complies with these policies will be considered necessary only if the cost is for a VR service described in § 404.2114. The State VR agency must maintain and use these cost-containment policies, including any reasonable and appropriate fee schedules, to govern the costs incurred for all VR services, including the rates of payment for all purchased services, for which payment will be requested under this subpart. For the purpose of this subpart, the written cost-containment policies must provide guidelines designed to ensure—
(i) The lowest reasonable cost for such services; and
(ii) Sufficient flexibility so as to allow for an individual's needs.
(2) The State VR agency shall submit to us before the end of the first calendar quarter of each year a written statement certifying that cost-containment policies are in effect and are adhered to in procuring and providing goods and services for which the State VR agency requests payment under this subpart. Such certification must be signed by the State's chief financial official or the head of the VR agency. Each certification must specify the basis upon which it is made, e.g., a recent audit by an authorized State, Federal or private auditor (or other independent compliance review) and the date of such audit (or compliance review). We may request the State VR agency to submit to us a copy(ies) of its specific written cost-containment policies and procedures (e.g., any guidelines and fee schedules for a given year) if we determine that such additional information is necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart. The State VR agency must provide such information when requested by us.
(d) The total payment in each case, including any prior payments related to earlier continuous 9-month periods of SGA made under this subpart, must not be so high as to preclude a “net saving” to the trust funds (a “net saving” is the difference between the estimated saving to the trust funds, if disability benefits eventually terminate, and the total amount we pay to the State VR agency);
(e) Any payment to the State VR agency for either direct or indirect VR expenses must be consistent with the cost principles described in OMB Circular No. A-87, as revised;
(f) Payment for VR services or costs may be made under more than one of the VR payment provisions described in §§ 404.2111 and 404.2112 of this subpart and similar provisions in §§ 416.2211 and 416.2212 of subpart V of part 416. However, payment will not be made more than once for the same VR service or cost; and
(g) Payment will be made for administrative costs and for counseling and placement costs. This payment may be on a formula basis, or on an actual cost basis, whichever the State VR agency prefers. The formula will be negotiated. The payment will also be subject to the preceding limitations.
[48 FR 6293, Feb. 10, 1983. Redesignated and amended at 55 FR 8454, 8455, Mar. 8, 1990; 59 FR 11915, Mar. 15, 1994; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997; 68 FR 40124, July 7, 2003; 83 FR 62457, Dec. 4, 2018]

# Administrative Provisions
§ 404.2118
[Reserved]
§ 404.2119
Method of payment.
Payment to the State VR agencies pursuant to this subpart will be made either by advancement of funds or by payment for services provided (with necessary adjustments for any overpayments and underpayments), as decided by the Commissioner.
[83 FR 62458, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2120
Audits.
(a)
General.
The State shall permit us and the Comptroller General of the United States (including duly authorized representatives) access to and the right to examine records relating to the services and costs for which payment was requested or made under these regulations. These records shall be retained by the State for the periods of time specified for retention of records in the Federal Acquisition Regulations (48 CFR part 4, subpart 4.7).
(b)
Audit basis.
Auditing will be based on cost principles and written guidelines in effect at the time services were provided and costs were incurred. The State VR agency will be informed and given a full explanation of any questioned items. It will be given a reasonable time to explain questioned items. Any explanation furnished by the State VR agency will be given full consideration before a final determination is made on questioned items in the audit report.
(c)
Appeal of audit determinations.
The appropriate SSA Regional Commissioner will notify the State VR agency in writing of his or her final determination on the audit report. If the State VR agency disagrees with that determination, it may request reconsideration in writing within 60 days after receiving the Regional Commissioner's notice of the determination. The Commissioner will make a determination and notify the State VR agency of that decision in writing, usually, no later than 45 days from the date of appeal. The decision by the Commissioner will be final and conclusive unless the State VR agency appeals that decision in writing in accordance with 45 CFR part 16 to the Department of Health and Human Services' Departmental Appeals Board within 30 days after receiving it.
[83 FR 62458, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2121
Validation reviews.
(a)
General.
We will conduct a validation review of a sample of the claims for payment filed by each State VR agency. We will conduct some of these reviews on a prepayment basis and some on a postpayment basis. We may review a specific claim, a sample of the claims, or all the claims filed by any State VR agency, if we determine that such review is necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart. For each claim selected for review, the State VR agency must submit such records of the VR services and costs for which payment has been requested or made under this subpart, or copies of such records, as we may require to ensure that the services and costs meet the requirements for payment. For claims for cases described in § 404.2101(a), a clear explanation or existing documentation which demonstrates how the service contributed to the individual's performance of a continuous 9-month period of SGA
must be provided. For claims for cases described in § 404.2101(b) or (c), a clear explanation or existing documentation which demonstrates how the service was reasonably expected to motivate or assist the individual to return to or continue in SGA must be provided. If we find in any prepayment validation review, that the scope or content of the information is inadequate, we will request additional information and will withhold payment until adequate information has been provided. The State VR agency shall permit us (including duly authorized representatives) access to, and the right to examine, any records relating to such services and costs. Any review performed under this section will not be considered an audit for purposes of this subpart.
(b)
Purpose.
The primary purpose of these reviews is—
(1) To ensure that the VR services and costs meet the requirements for payment under this subpart;
(2) To assess the validity of our documentation requirements; and
(3) To assess the need for additional validation reviews or additional documentation requirements for any State VR agency to ensure compliance with the requirements under this subpart.
(c)
Determinations.
In any validation review, we will determine whether the VR services and costs meet the requirements for payment and determine the amount of payment. We will notify in writing the State VR agency of our determination. If we find in any postpayment validation review that more or less than the correct amount of payment was made for a claim, we will determine that an overpayment or underpayment has occurred and will notify the State VR agency that we will make the appropriate adjustment.
(d)
Appeals.
If the State VR agency disagrees with our determination under this section, it may appeal that determination in accordance with § 404.2127. For purposes of this section, an appeal must be filed within 60 days after receiving the notice of our determination.
[59 FR 11916, Mar. 15, 1994, as amended at 83 FR 62458, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2122
Confidentiality of information and records.
The State shall comply with the provisions for confidentiality of information, including the security of systems, and records requirements described in 20 CFR part 401 and pertinent written guidelines (see § 404.2123).
[83 FR 62459, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2123
Other Federal laws and regulations.
Each State VR agency shall comply with the provisions of other Federal laws and regulations that directly affect its responsibilities in carrying out the vocational rehabilitation function.
[83 FR 62459, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2127
Resolution of disputes.
(a)
Disputes on the amount to be paid.
The appropriate SSA official will notify the State VR agency in writing of his or her determination concerning the amount to be paid. If the State VR agency disagrees with that determination, the State VR agency may request reconsideration in writing within 60 days after receiving the notice of determination. The Commissioner will make a determination and notify the State VR agency of that decision in writing, usually no later than 45 days from the date of the State VR agency's appeal. The decision by the Commissioner will be final and conclusive upon the State VR agency unless the State VR agency appeals that decision in writing in accordance with 45 CFR part 16 to the Department of Health and Human Services' Departmental Appeals Board within 30 days after receiving the Commissioner's decision.
(b)
Disputes on whether there was a continuous period of SGA and whether VR services contributed to a continuous period of SGA.
The rules in paragraph (a) of this section will apply, except that the Commissioner's decision will be final and conclusive. There is no right of appeal to the Departmental Appeals Board.
(c)
Disputes on determinations made by the Commissioner which affect a disability beneficiary's rights to benefits.
Determinations made by the Commissioner which affect an individual's right to
benefits (e.g., determinations that disability benefits should be terminated, denied, suspended, continued or begun at a different date than alleged) cannot be appealed by a State VR agency. Because these determinations are an integral part of the disability benefits claims process, they can only be appealed by the beneficiary or applicant whose rights are affected or by his or her authorized representative. However, if an appeal of an unfavorable determination is made by the individual and is successful, the new determination would also apply for purposes of this subpart. While a VR agency cannot appeal a determination made by the Commissioner which affects a beneficiary's or applicant's rights, the VR agency can furnish any evidence it may have which would support a revision of a determination.
[48 FR 6293, Feb. 10, 1983, as amended at 55 FR 8456, Mar. 8, 1990; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997; 83 FR 62459, Dec. 4, 2018]
PART 405 [RESERVED]
Pt. 408

# PART 408—SPECIAL BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN WORLD WAR II VETERANS

# Subpart A—Introduction, General Provision and Definitions
Sec.
408.101
What is this part about?
408.105
Purpose and administration of the program.
408.110
General definitions and use of terms.
408.120
Periods of limitations ending on Federal nonworkdays.

# Subpart B—SVB Qualification and Entitlement
408.201
What is this subpart about?
408.202
How do you qualify for SVB?
408.204
What conditions will prevent you from qualifying for SVB or being entitled to receive SVB payments?
408.206
What happens when you apply for SVB?
408.208
What happens if you establish residence outside the United States within 4 calendar months?
408.210
What happens if you do not establish residence outside the United States within 4 calendar months?
408.212
What happens if you are a qualified individual already residing outside the United States?

# Age
408.214
Are you age 65?

# Military Service
408.216
Are you a World War II veteran?

# SSI Eligibility
408.218
Do you meet the SSI eligibility requirements?

# Other Benefit Income
408.220
Do you have other benefit income?
408.222
How does your other benefit income affect your SVB?
408.224
How do we determine the monthly amount of your other benefit income?
408.226
What happens if you begin receiving other benefit income after you become entitled to SVB?

# Residence Outside the United States
408.228
When do we consider you to be residing outside the United States?
408.230
When must you begin residing outside the United States?
408.232
When do you lose your foreign resident status?
408.234
Can you continue to receive SVB payments if you stay in the United States for more than 1 full calendar month?

# Subpart C—Filing Applications

# Filing Your Application
408.301
What is this subpart about?
408.305
Why do you need to file an application to receive benefits?
408.310
What makes an application a claim for SVB?
408.315
Who may sign your application?
408.320
What evidence shows that a person has authority to sign an application for you?
408.325
When is your application considered filed?
408.330
How long will your application remain in effect?

# Filing Date Based on Written Statement or Oral Inquiry
408.340
When will we use a written statement as your filing date?
408.345
When will we use the date of an oral inquiry as your application filing date?

# Deemed Filing Date Based on Misinformation
408.351
What happens if we give you misinformation about filing an application?

# Withdrawal of Application
408.355
Can you withdraw your application?
408.360
Can you cancel your request to withdraw your application?

# Subpart D—Evidence Requirements

# General Information
408.401
What is this subpart about?
408.402
When do you need to give us evidence?
408.403
Where should you give us your evidence?
408.404
What happens if you fail to give us the evidence we ask for?
408.405
When do we require original records or copies as evidence?
408.406
How do we evaluate the evidence you give us?

# Age
408.410
When do you need to give us evidence of your age?
408.412
What kinds of evidence of age do you need to give us?
408.413
How do we evaluate the evidence of age you give us?

# Military Service
408.420
What evidence of World War II military service do you need to give us?

# SSI Eligibility
408.425
How do we establish your eligibility for SSI?

# Other Benefit Income
408.430
When do you need to give us evidence of your other benefit income?
408.432
What kind of evidence of your other benefit income do you need to give us?

# Residence
408.435
How do you prove that you are residing outside the United States?
408.437
How do you prove that you had good cause for staying in the United States for more than 1 full calendar month?

# Subpart E—Amount and Payment of Benefits
408.501
What is this subpart about?
408.505
How do we determine the amount of your SVB payment?
408.510
How do we reduce your SVB when you receive other benefit income?
408.515
When do we make SVB payments?

# Subpart F—Representative Payment
408.601
What is this subpart about?
408.610
When will we send your SVB payments to a representative payee?
408.611
What happens to your monthly benefits while we are finding a suitable representative payee for you?
408.615
What information do we consider in determining whether we will pay your benefits to a representative payee?
408.618
Advance designation of representative payees.
408.620
What information do we consider in selecting the proper representative payee for you?
408.621
What is our order of preference in selecting a representative payee for you?
408.622
Who may not serve as a representative payee?
408.624
How do we investigate a representative payee applicant?
408.625
What information must a representative payee report to us?
408.626
How do we investigate an appointed representative payee?
408.630
How will we notify you when we decide you need a representative payee?
408.635
What are the responsibilities of your representative payee?
408.640
How must your representative payee use your benefits?
408.641
Who is liable if your representative payee misuses your benefits?
408.645
What must your representative payee do with unused benefits?
408.650
When will we select a new representative payee for you?
408.655
When will we stop making your payments to a representative payee?
408.660
What happens to your accumulated funds when your representative payee changes?
408.665
How does your representative payee account for the use of your SVB payments?

# Subpart G—Reporting Requirements
408.701
What is this subpart about?
408.704
Who must make reports?
408.708
What events must you report to us?
408.710
What must your report include?
408.712
How should you make your report?
408.714
When are reports due?

# Subpart H—Suspensions and Terminations
408.801
What is this subpart about?

# Suspension
408.802
When will we suspend your SVB payments?
408.803
What happens to your SVB payments if you fail to comply with our request for information?
408.806
What happens to your SVB payments if you are no longer residing outside the United States?
408.808
What happens to your SVB payments if you begin receiving additional benefit income?
408.809
What happens to your SVB payments if you are removed (including deported) from the United States?
408.810
What happens to your SVB payments if you are fleeing to avoid criminal prosecution or custody or confinement after conviction, for certain crimes, or if you violate a condition of probation or parole?
408.812
What happens to your SVB payments if you are not a citizen or national of the United States and you begin residing in a Treasury-restricted country?

# Termination
408.814
Can you request termination of your SVB entitlement?
408.816
When does SVB entitlement end due to death?
408.818
When does SVB entitlement end if your benefit payments have been in suspense for 12 consecutive months?
408.820
Will we send you a notice of intended action affecting your SVB payment status?

# Subpart I—Underpayments and Overpayments

# General Rules
408.900
What is this subpart about?
408.901
What is an underpayment?
408.902
What is an overpayment?
408.903
How do we determine the amount of an underpayment or overpayment?
408.904
How will you receive an underpayment?
408.905
Will we withhold or adjust an underpayment to reduce an overpayment if that overpayment occurred in a different period?

# Waiver of Recovery of SVB Overpayments
408.910
When will we waive recovery of an SVB overpayment?
408.911
What happens when we waive recovery of an SVB overpayment?
408.912
When are you without fault regarding an overpayment?
408.913
When would overpayment recovery defeat the purpose of the title VIII program?
408.914
When would overpayment recovery be against equity and good conscience?

# Notices
408.918
What notices will you receive if you are overpaid or underpaid?

# Refund of Overpayments
408.920
When will we seek refund of an SVB overpayment?

# Adjustment of SVB
408.922
When will we adjust your SVB payments to recover an overpayment?
408.923
Is there a limit on the amount we will withhold from your SVB payments to recover an overpayment?

# Adjustment of Title II Benefits
408.930
Are title II and title XVI benefits subject to adjustment to recover title VIII overpayments?
408.931
How much will we withhold from your title II and title XVI benefits to recover a title VIII overpayment?
408.932
Will you receive notice of our intention to apply cross-program recovery?
408.933
When will we begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits?

# Tax Refund Offset
408.940
When will we refer an SVB overpayment to the Department of the Treasury for tax refund offset?
408.941
Will we notify you before we refer an SVB overpayment for tax refund offset?
408.942
Will you have a chance to present evidence showing that the overpayment is not past due or is not legally enforceable?
408.943
What happens after we make our determination on your request for review or your request for waiver?
408.944
How can you review our records related to an SVB overpayment?
408.945
When will we suspend tax refund offset?
408.946
What happens if your tax refund is insufficient to cover the amount of your SVB overpayment?

# Compromise Settlements, or Suspension or Termination of Collection
408.950
Will we accept a compromise settlement of an overpayment debt or suspend or terminate collection of an overpayment?

# Subpart J—Determinations and the Administrative Review Process

# Introduction, Definitions, and Initial Determinations
408.1000
What is this subpart about?
408.1001
Definitions.
408.1002
What is an initial determination?
408.1003
Which administrative actions are initial determinations?
408.1004
Which administrative actions are not initial determinations?
408.1005
Will we mail you a notice of the initial determination?
408.1006
What is the effect of an initial determination?

# Reconsideration
408.1007
What is reconsideration?
408.1009
How do you request reconsideration?
408.1011
How do we determine whether you had good cause for missing the deadline to request review?
408.1013
What are the methods for reconsideration?
408.1014
What procedures apply if you request reconsideration of an initial determination on your application for SVB?
408.1015
What procedures apply if you request reconsideration of an initial determination that results in suspension, reduction, or termination of your SVB?
408.1016
What happens if you request a conference?
408.1020
How do we make our reconsidered determination?
408.1021
How does the reconsidered determination affect you?
408.1022
How will we notify you of our reconsidered determination?

# Expedited Appeals Process
408.1030
When can you use the expedited appeals process?

# Hearing Before an Administrative Law Judge
408.1040
When you can request a hearing before an administrative law judge (ALJ)?

# Administrative Law Judge Hearing Procedures
408.1045
What procedures apply if you request an ALJ hearing?

# Appeals Council Review
408.1050
When can you request Appeals Council review of an ALJ hearing decision or dismissal of a hearing request?

# Court Remand Cases
408.1060
What happens if a Federal court remands your case to the Commissioner?

# Reopening and Revising Determinations and Decisions
408.1070
When will we reopen a final determination?

# Subpart K—Representation of Parties
408.1101
Can you appoint someone to represent you?

# Subpart L—Federal Administration of State Recognition Payments
408.1201
What are State recognition payments?
408.1205
How can a State have SSA administer its State recognition payment program?
408.1210
What are the essential elements of an administration agreement?
408.1215
How do you establish eligibility for Federally administered State recognition payments?
408.1220
How do we pay Federally administered State recognition payments?
408.1225
What happens if you receive an overpayment?
408.1226
What happens if you are underpaid?
408.1230
Can you waive State recognition payments?
408.1235
How does the State transfer funds to SSA to administer its recognition payment program?

# Source:
68 FR 16418, Apr. 4, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Introduction, General Provision and Definitions

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5) and 801-813 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5) and 1001-1013).
§ 408.101
What is this part about?
The regulations in this part 408 (Regulation No. 8 of the Social Security Administration) relate to the provisions of title VIII of the Social Security Act as added by Pub. L. 106-169 enacted December 14, 1999. Title VIII (Special Benefits for Certain World War II Veterans) established a program for the payment of benefits to certain World War II veterans. The regulations in this part are divided into the following subparts according to subject content.
(a) Subpart A contains this introductory section, a statement of the general purpose underlying the payment of special benefits to World War II veterans, general provisions applicable to the program and its administration, and defines certain terms that we use throughout part 408.
(b) Subpart B contains the requirements for qualification and entitlement to monthly title VIII benefits.
(c) Subpart C contains the provisions relating to the filing and withdrawal of applications.
(d) Subpart D contains the provisions relating to the evidence required for establishing qualification for and entitlement to monthly title VIII benefits.
(e) Subpart E contains the provisions about the amount and payment of monthly benefits.
(f) Subpart F is reserved for future use.
(g) Subpart G contains the provisions on your requirement to report certain events to us.
(h) Subpart H contains the provisions on suspension and termination of title VIII entitlement.
(i) Subpart I contains the provisions on underpayments and overpayments.
(j) Subpart J contains the provisions on determinations and the administrative review process.
(k) Subpart K contains the provisions on claimant representation.
(l) Subpart L contains the provisions on Federal administration of State recognition payments.
[68 FR 16418, Apr. 4, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004]
§ 408.105
Purpose and administration of the program.
The purpose of the title VIII program is to assure a basic income level for certain veterans who are entitled to supplemental security income (SSI) and who want to leave the United States to live abroad. The title VIII program is administered by the Social Security Administration.
§ 408.110
General definitions and use of terms.
(a)
Terms relating to the Act and regulations.
(1)
The Act
means the Social Security Act as amended (42 U.S.C. Chap.7).
(2)
Title
means the title of the Act.
(3)
Section or §
means a section of the regulations in part 408 of this chapter unless the context indicates otherwise.
(b)
Commissioner; Appeals Council; Administrative Law Judge defined
—(1)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Social Security.
(2)
Appeals Council
means the Appeals Council of the Office of Analytics, Review, and Oversight in the Social Security Administration or such member or members thereof as may be designated by the Chair of the Appeals Council.
(3)
Administrative Law Judge
means an Administrative Law Judge in the Office of Hearings Operations in the Social Security Administration.
(c)
Miscellaneous
—(1)
A calendar month.
The period including all of 24 hours of each day of January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, or December.
(2)
Federal benefit rate (FBR).
The amount of the cash benefit payable under title XVI for the month to an eligible individual who has no income. The FBR does not include any State supplementary payment that is paid by the Commissioner pursuant to an agreement with a State under section 1616(a) of the Act or section 212(b) of Public Law 93-66.
(3)
Qualified individual.
An individual who meets all the requirements for qualification for SVB in § 408.202 and does not meet any of the conditions that prevent qualification in § 408.204.
(4)
Special veterans benefits (SVB).
The benefits payable to certain veterans of World War II under title VIII of the Act.
(5)
State.
Unless otherwise indicated, this means:
(i) A State of the United States
(ii) The District of Columbia; or
(iii) The Northern Mariana Islands.
(6)
Supplemental Security Income (SSI).
SSI is the national program for providing a minimum level of income to aged, blind, and disabled individuals under title XVI of the Act.
(7)
United States.
When used in the geographical sense, this is:
(i) The 50 States;
(ii) The District of Columbia; and
(iii) The Northern Mariana Islands.
(8)
We, us
or
our
means the Social Security Administration (SSA).
(9)
World War II.
The period beginning September 16, 1940 and ending on July 24, 1947.
(10)
You
or
your
means, as appropriate, the person who applies for benefits, the person for whom an application is filed, or the person who is considering applying for benefits.
[68 FR 16418, Apr. 4, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 73158, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 408.120
Periods of limitations ending on Federal nonworkdays.
Title VIII of the Act and the regulations in this part require you to take certain actions within specified time periods or you may lose your right to a portion or all of your benefits. If any such period ends on a Saturday, Sunday, Federal legal holiday, or any
other day all or part of which is declared to be a nonworkday for Federal employees by statute or Executive Order, you will have until the next Federal workday to take the prescribed action.

# Subpart B—SVB Qualification and Entitlement

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5), 801, 802, 803, 804, 806, 810 and 1129A of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1001, 1002, 1003, 1004, 1006, 1010 and 1320a-8a); Sec. 251, Pub. L. 106-169, 113 Stat. 1844.
§ 408.201
What is this subpart about?
You are qualified for SVB if you meet the requirements listed in § 408.202 and if none of the conditions listed in § 408.204 exist. However, you cannot be entitled to receive benefits for any month before the first month in which you reside outside the United States on the first day of the month and meet all the qualification requirements. You must give us any information we request and evidence to prove that you meet these requirements. You continue to be qualified for SVB unless we determine that you no longer meet the requirements for qualification in § 408.202 or we determine that you are not qualified because one of the conditions listed in § 404.204 of this chapter exists. You continue to be entitled to receive benefits unless we determine you are no longer residing outside the United States.
§ 408.202
How do you qualify for SVB?
You qualify for SVB if you meet all of the following requirements.
(a)
Age.
You were age 65 or older on December 14, 1999 (the date on which Pub. L. 106-169 was enacted into law).
(b)
World War II veteran.
You are a World War II veteran as explained in § 408.216.
(c)
SSI eligible.
You were eligible for SSI, as explained in § 408.218, for both December 1999 (the month in which Pub. L. 106-169 was enacted into law) and for the month in which you file your application for SVB.
(d)
Application.
You file an application for SVB as explained in subpart C of this part.
(e)
Other benefit income.
You do not have other benefit income, as explained in § 408.220, which is equal to, or more than, 75 percent of the current FBR.
§ 408.204
What conditions will prevent you from qualifying for SVB or being entitled to receive SVB payments?
(a)
General rule.
Even if you meet all the qualification requirements in § 408.202, you will not be qualified for SVB for or entitled to receive SVB payments for any of the following months.
(1)
Removal from the United States.
Any month that begins after the month in which we are advised by the Attorney General that you have been removed (including deported) from the United States pursuant to section 237(a) or 212(a)(6)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act and before the month in which you are subsequently lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence.
(2)
Fleeing felon.
Any month during any part of which you are fleeing to avoid prosecution, or custody or confinement after conviction, under the laws of the United States or the jurisdiction in the United States from which you fled, for a crime or an attempt to commit a crime that is a felony under the laws of the place from which you fled, or in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor.
(3)
Parole violation.
Any month during any part of which you violate a condition of probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law.
(4)
Residence in certain countries.
Any month during which you are not a citizen or national of the United States and reside in a country to which payments to residents of that country are withheld by the Treasury Department under section 3329 of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Condition occurs before we determine that you are qualified.
If one of the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section occurs before we determine that you are qualified, we will deny your claim for SVB.
(c)
Condition occurs after we determine that you are qualified.
If one of the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section occurs after we determine that you are
qualified for SVB, you cannot receive SVB payments for any month in which the condition exists.
§ 408.206
What happens when you apply for SVB?
(a)
General rule.
When you apply for SVB, we will ask you for documents and other information that we need to determine if you meet all the requirements for qualification. You must give us complete information (
see
subpart D of this part for our rules on evidence). If you do not meet all of the requirements for qualification listed in § 408.202, or if one of the conditions listed in § 408.204 exists, we will deny your claim.
(b)
If you are a qualified individual residing in the United States.
If you meet all the requirements for qualification listed in § 408.202 and if none of the conditions listed in § 408.204 exist, we will send you a letter telling you the following:
(1) You are qualified for SVB;
(2) In order to become entitled to SVB, you will have to begin residing outside the United States by the end of the fourth calendar month after the month in which your notice of qualification is dated. For example, if our letter is dated May 15, you must establish residence outside the United States before October 1 of that year; and
(3) What documents and information you must give us to establish that you are residing outside the United States.
§ 408.208
What happens if you establish residence outside the United States within 4 calendar months?
If you begin residing outside the United States within 4 calendar months after the month in which your SVB qualification notice is dated, we will send you a letter telling you that you are entitled to SVB and the first month for which SVB payments can be made to you. The letter will also tell you the amount of your monthly benefit payments, whether your payments are reduced because of your other benefit income, and what rights you have to a reconsideration of our determination.
§ 408.210
What happens if you do not establish residence outside the United States within 4 calendar months?
If you do not establish residence outside the United States within 4 calendar months after the month in which your SVB qualification notice is dated, we will deny your SVB claim. We will send you a notice explaining what rights you have to a reconsideration of our determination. You will have to file a new application and meet all the requirements for qualification and entitlement based on the new application to become entitled to SVB.
§ 408.212
What happens if you are a qualified individual already residing outside the United States?
