—To help manufacturers understand what constitutes a children's product under the CPSA, the following additional examples regarding specific product categories are offered:
(1) Furnishings and Fixtures—General home furnishings and fixtures (including, but not limited to: Rocking chairs, shelving units, televisions, digital music players, ceiling fans, humidifiers, air purifiers, window curtains, tissue boxes, rugs, carpets, lamps, clothing hooks and racks) that often are found in children's rooms or schools would not be considered children's products unless they are decorated or embellished with a childish theme and invite use by a child 12 years of age or younger, are sized for a child, or are marketed to appeal primarily to children. Examples of home or school furnishings that are designed or intended primarily for use by children and considered children's products include: Infant tubs, bath seats, small bean bag chairs with childish decorations, beds with children's themes, child-sized desks, and child-sized chairs. Decorative items, such as holiday decorations and household seasonal items that are intended only for display, with which children are not likely to interact, are generally not considered children's products, since they are intended to be used by adults.
(2) Collectibles—Adult collectibles may be distinguished from children's collectibles by themes that are inappropriate for children 12 years of age or younger, have features that preclude use by children during play, such as high cost, limited production, fragile features, display features (such as hooks or pedestals), and are not marketed alongside children's products (for example, in a children's department) in ways that make them indistinguishable from children's products. For example, collectible plush bears have high cost, are highly detailed, with fragile accessories, display cases, and platforms on which to pose and hold the bears. Children's bears have lower costs and simple accessories that can be handled without fear of damage to the product. Another example of collectible items includes model railways and trains made for hobbyists.
(3) Jewelry—Jewelry intended for children is generally sized, themed, and marketed to children. The following characteristics may cause a piece of jewelry to be considered a children's product: Size; very low cost; play value; childish themes on the jewelry; sale with children's products (such as a child's dress); sale with a child's book,
a toy, or party favors; sale with children's cereal or snacks; sale at an entertainment or educational event attended primarily by children; sale in a store that contains mostly children's products; and sale in a vending machine. In addition, many aspects of an item's design and marketing are considered when determining the age of consumers for whom the product is intended and will be purchased including: Advertising; promotional materials; packaging graphics and text; dexterity requirements for wearing; appearance (coloring, textures, materials, design themes, licensing, and level of realism); and cost. These characteristics will help jewelry manufacturers and consumers determine whether a particular piece of jewelry is designed or intended primarily for children 12 years of age or younger.
(4) DVDs, Video Games, and Computer Products—Most computer products and electronic media, such as CDs, DVDs, and video games, are considered general use products. However, CDs and DVDs with encoded content that is intended for and marketed to children, such as children's movies, games, or educational software may be determined to be children's products. CPSC staff may consider ratings given by entertainment industries and software rating systems when making an age determination. In addition, electronic media players and devices that are embellished or decorated with childish themes that are intended to attract children 12 years of age or younger, are sized for children, or are marketed to appeal primarily to children, are not likely to fall under the general use category where children 12 years or younger likely would be the primary users of such devices. However, electronic devices such as CD players, DVD players, game consoles, book readers, digital media players, cell phones, digital assistant communication devices, and accessories to such devices that are intended mainly for children older than 12 years of age or adults are products for general use.
(5) Art Materials—Materials sized, decorated, and marketed to children 12 years of age or younger, such as crayons, finger paints, and modeling dough, would be considered children's products. Crafting kits and supplies that are not specifically marketed to children 12 years of age or younger likely would be considered products intended for general use. Consideration of the marketing and labeling of raw materials and art tools (such as modeling clay, paint, and paint brushes) may often be given high priority in an age determination because the appeal and utility of these raw materials has such a wide audience. If a distributor or retailer sells or rents a general use product in bulk (such as a raw art materials or art tools) through distribution channels that target children 12 years of age or younger in educational settings, such as schools, summer camps, or child care facilities, this type of a distribution strategy would not necessarily convert a general use product into a children's product. However, if the product is packaged in such a manner that either expressly states or implies with graphics, themes, labeling, or instructions that the product is designed or intended primarily for children 12 years of age or younger, then it may be considered a children's product if the required consideration of all four statutory factors supports that determination. The requirements of the Labeling of Hazardous Art Materials Act are similar to the labeling requirements of the FHSA, of which it is a part. Therefore, third party testing to LHAMA is not required. An art material designed or intended primarily for children 12 years of age or younger would have to be tested by a third party laboratory to demonstrate compliance with CPSIA, but it would not require third party testing and certification to the LHAMA requirements. For the same reasons, no general conformity certificate is required for general use art materials.
(6) Books—The content of a book can determine its intended audience. Children's books have themes, vocabularies, illustrations, and covers that match the interests and cognitive capabilities of children 12 years of age or younger. The age guidelines provided by librarians, education professionals, and publishers may be dispositive for determining the intended audience. Some children's books have a wide appeal to the general public, and in those
instances, further analysis may be necessary to assess who the primary intended audience is based on consideration of relevant additional factors, such as product design, packaging, marketing, and sales data.
(7) Science Equipment—Microscopes, telescopes, and other scientific equipment that would be used by an adult, as well as a child, are considered general use products. Equipment that is intended by the manufacturer for use primarily by adults, although there may be use by children through such programs, is a general use product. Toy versions of such items are considered children's products. If a distributor or retailer sells or rents a general use product in bulk through distribution channels that target children 12 years of age or younger in educational settings, such as schools or summer camps, this type of a distribution strategy would not necessarily convert a general use product into a children's product. However, if the product is packaged in such a manner that either expressly states or implies with graphics, themes, labeling, or instructions that the product is designed or intended primarily for children 12 years of age or younger, then it may be considered a children's product if the required consideration of all four statutory factors supports that determination. Products mainly intended for use by the instructor would not be considered children's products. In general, scientific equipment that is specifically sized for children, such as protective gear, eyewear, gloves, or aprons and/or has childish themes or decorations and invites use by a child 12 years of age or younger or is marketed to appeal primarily to children is considered a children's product.
(8) Sporting Goods and Recreational Equipment—Sporting goods that are intended primarily for consumers older than 12 years of age are considered general use items. Sporting equipment, sized for adults, are general use items even though some children 12 years of age or younger will use them. Unless such items are specifically marketed to children 12 years of age or younger, or have extra features that make them more suitable for children 12 years of age or younger than for adults, they would be considered general use products. If children 12 years or younger would mainly use the product because it would be too small or inappropriate for older children to use, then it likely would be considered a children's product. Likewise, recreational equipment, such as roller blades, skateboards, bicycles, camping gear, and fitness equipment are considered general use products unless they are sized to fit children 12 years of age or younger and/or are decorated with childish features by the manufacturer.
(9) Musical Instruments—Musical instruments, including electronically-aided instruments suited for an adult musician, are general use products. Instruments intended primarily for children can be distinguished from adult instruments by their size and marketing themes. The Commission notes that if a distributor or retailer sells or rents in bulk, a general use musical instrument through distribution channels that target children 12 years of age or younger in educational settings, such as schools or summer camps, this type of a distribution strategy would not necessarily convert a general use product into a children's product. However, if the product is packaged in such a manner that either expressly states or implies with graphics, themes, labeling, or instructions that the product is designed or intended primarily for children 12 years of age or younger, then it may be considered a children's product if the required consideration of all four statutory factors supports that determination.
Pt. 1201

# PART 1201—SAFETY STANDARD FOR ARCHITECTURAL GLAZING MATERIALS

# Subpart A—The Standard
Sec.
1201.1
Scope, application and findings.
1201.2
Definitions.
1201.3
General requirements.
1201.4
Test procedures.
1201.5
Certification and labeling requirements.
1201.6
Prohibited stockpiling.
1201.7
Effective date.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Statements of Policy and Interpretation
1201.40
Interpretation concerning bathtub and shower doors and enclosures.

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 3, 7, 9, 14, 19, Pub. L. 92-573, 86 Stat. 1212-17; (15 U.S.C. 2051, 2052, 2056, 2058, 2063, 2068).

# Source:
42 FR 1441, Jan. 6, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—The Standard
§ 1201.1
Scope, application and findings.
(a)
Scope.
This part 1201, a consumer product safety standard, prescribes the safety requirements for glazing materials used or intended for use in any of the following architectural products:
(1) Storm doors or combination doors.
(2) Doors.
(3) Bathtub doors and enclosures.
(4) Shower doors and enclosures.
(5) [Reserved]
(6) Sliding glass doors (patio-type).
It also requires that these architectural products which incorporate glazing materials be constructed with glazing materials that meet the requirements of this part. The safety requirements are designed to reduce or eliminate unreasonable risks of death or serious injury to consumers when glazing material is broken by human contact.
(b)
Application.
This part 1201 shall apply to glazing materials, as that term is defined in § 1201.2(a)(11), for use in the architectural products listed in paragraph (a) of this section; and to those architectural products listed in paragraph (a) of this section if they are made with, or incorporate glazing materials as that term is defined in § 1201.2(a)(11). The standard applies to glazing materials and architectural products incorporating glazing materials that are produced or distributed for sale to or for the personal use, consumption or enjoyment of consumers in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence or in recreational, school, public, or other buildings or parts thereof. This part 1201 applies only to those glazing materials manufactured after the effective date of the standard; and to those architectural products identified in paragraph (a) of this section that are manufactured after the effective date of the standard. Thus, architectural products identified in paragraph (a) of this section manufactured after the effective date of the standard must incorporate glazing materials that comply with the standard. For purposes of this standard, fabricators are considered to be manufacturers of the architectural products listed in paragraph (a) of this section. Architectural glazing materials used in the products listed in paragraph (a) of this section and used in mobile homes are not subject to the provisions of this part 1201. While this part 1201 prescribes a test method to determine whether glazing materials subject to this part 1201 standard meet the requirements of the standard, the standard itself does not require that a manufacturer test any glazing materials or products subject to the standard. All obligations of manufacturers to perform testing are imposed by section 14 of the Consumer Product Safety Act and certification regulations which will be established by a separate rulemaking proceeding. However, the Commission intends to use the test procedures set forth in this part 1201 to determine whether materials and products subject to the standard meet the requirements of the standard.
(c)
Exemptions.
The following products, materials and uses are exempt from this part 1201:
(1) Wired glass used in doors or other assemblies to retard the passage of fire, where such door or assembly is required by a federal, state, local, or municipal fire ordinance.
(2) Louvers of jalousie doors;
(3) Openings in doors through which a 3 inch diameter sphere is unable to pass;
(4) Carved glass (as defined in § 1201.2(a)(36)), dalle glass (as defined in § 1201.2(a)(37)), or leaded glass (as defined in § 1201.2(a)(14)), which is used in doors and glazed panels (as defined in §§ 1201.2(a)(7) and (a)(10)) if the glazing material meets all of the following criteria:
(i) The coloring, texturing, or other design qualities or components of the glazing material cannot be removed without destroying the material; and
(ii) The primary purpose of such glazing is decorative or artistic; and
(iii) The glazing material is conspicuously colored or textured so as to be plainly visible and plainly identifiable as aesthetic or decorative rather than functional (other than for the purpose of admitting or controlliing admission of light components or heat and cold); and
(iv) The glazing material, or assembly into which it is incorporated, is divided into segments by conspicuous and plainly visible lines.
(5) Glazing materials used as curved glazed panels in revolving doors;
(6) Commercial refrigerated cabinet glazed doors.
(d)
Findings
1
—(1)
The degree and nature of the risk of injury the rule is designed to eliminate or reduce.
The Commission finds that the nature of the risks of injury this standard is designed to eliminate or reduce are as follows:
1
The Commission's findings apply to the architectural glazing standard as issued at 42 FR 1426, on January 6, 1977. Since that date, the Commission has revoked portions of the standard which prescribed requirements for “glazed panels” (45 FR 57383, August 28, 1980); an accelerated environmental durability test for plastic glazing materials intended for outdoor exposure (45 FR 66002, October 6, 1980); and a modulus of elasticity test, a hardness test, and an indoor aging test applicable to plastic glazing materials (47 FR 27856, June 28, 1982). However, the findings have not been revised and they are therefore, not fully applicable to the remaining requirements of the standard.
(i) Lacerations, contusions, abrasions, and other injury or death resulting from walking or running into glazed doors or sliding glass doors believed to be open or glazed panels mistaken as a means of ingress or egress, or pushing against glazing material in doors or glazed panels in an attempt to open a door.
(ii) Lacerations, contusions, abrasions, and other injury or death resulting from accidentally falling into or through glazed doors, sliding glass doors, glazed panels, bathtub doors and enclosures and shower doors and enclosures.
(iii) Lacerations, contusions, abrasions, and other injury or death resulting from the act of installing, replacing, storing or otherwise manipulating glazing material in doors, sliding glass doors, glazed panels, bathtub doors and enclosures and shower doors and enclosures, or from broken glazing material in doors, sliding glass doors, glazed panels, bathtub doors and enclosures and shower doors and enclosures. The Commission estimates that 73,000 injuries associated with architectural glazing materials in the architectural products within the scope of this standard were treated in hospital emergency rooms during 1975, and that about 2,400 of these injuries required the patients to be hospitalized. Extrapolating to total injuries in the United States the Commission further estimates that approximately 190,000 injuries were associated with architectural glazing products covered by this standard. Although injuries occur at any age, children aged 14 and under appear to be at particular risk of injury since as a group they represent approximately half the injuries while comprising less than 30 percent of the population. Lacerations are the most common injuries associated with architectural glazing materials and account for 72 percent to 93 percent of the injuries associated with the architectural products identified in paragraph (a) of this section. These lacerative injuries span a broad spectrum of severity and extent of body part affected. During 1975, an estimated 200 injuries were treated in emergency rooms for lacerations over 25 to 50 percent of the victims' bodies and over 7,000 persons were treated for lacerations to the head or face. On the basis of all injury information available to the Commission, it is apparent that the severity of the injuries associated with architectural glazing materials ranges from minor cuts to damage to tendons, nerves, muscles, and blood vessels resulting in extensive surgery. Peripheral nerve injuries result in varying degres of loss in sensation and motion which may never be restored completely. Tendon and muscle injuries may involve loss of movement. Some victims of architectural glazing material incidents are disfigured, and sustain emotional trauma as well. Severing of arteries and veins has led to
death. One way of quantifying the extent of the public health problem relating to injuries associated with products is to estimate the total number of disability days resulting from the injuries. Using average days of restricted activity by age for specific injuries and body parts (Vital and Health Statistics, Series 10, Number 57, National Center for Health Statistics, U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare), it is estimated that about 230,000 days of restricted activity resulted from injuries associated with architectural products which were treated in emergency rooms alone.
(2)
The approximate number of consumer products, or types or classes thereof, subject to the standard.
The types of glazing materials affected by or subject to the standard are laminated glass, tempered glass, wired glass, organic-coated glass, annealed glass, and plastics. Architectural products that incorporate the aforementioned glazing materials that are also affected by or subject to the standard are: storm doors or combination doors, doors, bathtub doors, and enclosures, shower doors and enclosures, glazed panels and sliding glass doors (patio-type) (see paragraph (a) of this section). The Commission has estimated that 13 to 16 percent of the total market for glazing material incorporated in products within the scope of the standard will be affected by the standard. Most of the glazing subject to the standard is currently covered by state safety glazing legislation. To date, more than 30 states have enacted safety glazing legislation, but this legislation is neither consistent nor completely uniform among states. Annual markets for the architectural products which incorporate glazing material and that are within the scope of the standard have been estimated by the Commission in terms of square feet of glazed area and number of units. The market for glazing material incorporated in products within the scope of the standard was estimated to be 234.8 million square feet in 1975. These figures are discussed in the Economic Impact Statement, pp. 3-7, and appendix A to the Economic Impact Statement, pp. 18-30, which are available for review in the Office of the Secretary of the Commission, Washington, D.C. 20207.
(3)
The need of the public for the architectural glazing material and products incorporating that glazing material subject to the standard, and the probable effect of the standard upon the utility, cost or availability of those products to meet the need of the public
—(i)
The need of the public for the architectural glazing materials and products incorporating that glazing material.
The need of the public for architectural products within the scope of the standard incorporating glazing material is substantial since these products serve such functions as transmission of light, visual communication, protection from weather, ventilation, and indoor climate control, and since reasonable substitutes for these products do not exist as a group. Each of the types of glazing material subject to the standard has individual properties which meet public needs, although one type of glazing material is often an acceptable substitute for another.
(ii)
Probable effect of the standard upon the cost of architectural glazing materials and architectural products incorporating the glazing material to meet the need of the public for the products.
The probable cost effects of the standard for architectural glazing materials are listed below.
(A) The cost impact of the standard on consumers will be concentrated in those states with no present state safety glazing legislation. In those states, the average increase in cost per housing start resulting from the standard is estimated to range from $30 to $50, or approximately one-tenth of one percent of the price of a typical new house; and the cost for residential remodeling and replacement is expected to be in the range of $0.25 to $0.30 per household annually.
(B) The increased cost of glazing material for nonresidential uses will be paid ultimately by consumers through higher prices of goods and services. Generally, the increased cost of glazing is not passed to consumers immediately, but is spread over the life of the nonresidential structure. Therefore, the increased cost to consumers for glazing material in nonresidential structures will probably rise slowly
over time to an annual level of approximately $1.10 per household in states with no safety glazing legislation and $0.20 to $0.50 per household in the other states. In many of the states with state regulations, the impact of the standard on residential construction and new housing prices will be near zero, since most of the glazing is currently covered by the state glazing legislation.
(C) The probable effect of the standard on the various glazing materials within the scope of the standard will differ. The retail price of laminated glass used in some Category II applications will probably increase by 10 to 15 percent per square foot. The incremental cost to consumers for ungraded laminated glass is estimated to be approximately $0.14 per household, annually. The cost to consumers for tempered glass, organic-coated glass, and plastics is not expected to increase because of the standard. Information available to the Commission indicates that the technology needed for producing wired glass which can comply with the standard is not readily available. See appendix A of the Economic Impact Statement, pp. 45-56, for the incremental cost calculation by product category and application.
(iii)
Probable effect of the standard upon the utility of architectural glazing materials and architectural products incorporating the glazing materials to meet the need of the public for the products.
The probable effect of the standard in regard to the utility of architectural glazing materials and the architectural products incorporating glazing material should be to increase the utility of the products. The basic effect of the standard would be the substitution of certain safer glazing materials for annealed glass in certain architectural products. The Commission believes that such a substitution would increase utility for most consumers because of the usually increased durability of the glazing material that complies with the Commission's standard, and the knowledge that the product incorporating the glazing material is safer. There will be disutility for those consumers who prefer non-complying wired glass and organic-coated glass when these materials become unavailable for certain applications due to their likely inability to comply with the standard. However, the share of the glazing material market claimed by organic-coated and wired glass is small.
(iv)
Probable effect of the standard upon the availability of architectural glazing materials and architectural products incorporating the glazing materials to meet the need of the public for the products.
The Commission finds that the proposed standard should not have impacts of significant magnitude on the availability of architectural products within the scope of the standard, since domestic production capacity appears to be sufficient to handle any increased demand for glazing material to be used in those products. In addition, an increased demand for raw materials necessary to manufacture glazing materials that comply with the standard will be small in comparison to the volume of raw materials currently used for glazing for the products that will be subject to the standard. Furthermore, no major change in demand for the architectural products subject to the standard incorporating glazing materials which would affect production is expected. The Commission finds that, in the absence of technological advances, certain glazing materials will no longer be available for particular applications. Unless technological advances are made, wired glass will be unavailable for use in the architectural products within the scope of the standard with the exception of fire door applications where special provisions of the standard apply. Similarly, organic-coated glass which has the film applied to annealed glass at the factory may no longer be available for Category II products due to an inability to pass those impact test provisions of the standard. The availability of glass replacement glazing in residential applications may be reduced, since plastic glazing often will be the only economical material available to consumers when immediate replacement is needed.
(4)
Any means of achieving the objectives of the standard while minimizing adverse effects on competition or disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices consistent with the public health and safety.
The Commission has considered other means of
achieving the objective of the standard, but has found none that it believes would have fewer adverse effects on competition or that would cause less disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices, consistent with the public health and safety. For the glazing industry in general, the disruptions and dislocations of existing manufacturing and commercial practices due to the standard are expected to be minor. However, it is possible that individual segments of the glazing materials industry are likely to be adversely affected by the standard. Specifically, there is likely to be disruption to the wired glass market, the organic-coated glass market and, to a lesser extent, to the laminated glass market. Manufacturers of wired glass will face a serious problem because technological improvements in the product will need to be made before wired glass can be used in Category I applications and because it probably will not be usable at all in Category II applications (see § 1201.2(a) (3) and (4) of the standard), since there appears to be little prospect at this time of developing a wired glass product capable of withstanding the Category II, 400 foot pound impact test prescribed in § 1201.4 of the standard. Laminated glass currently used for Category I applications can meet the 150 foot pound impact test requirements, but not all laminated glass currently used for Category II applications can meet the 400 foot pound impact test requirements. The price increase for technologically upgrading laminated glass will be borne by consumers. The Commission believes, however, that the competitive impact of the proposed changes would not severely weaken the position of laminated glass in the market place. The wired glass, organic-coated glass, and laminated glass markets affected by the standard are small in relation to the entire industry. The standard is not expected to have an appreciable impact on foreign or domestic competition. Increased competition is expected between primary glass temperers and regional temperers, with primary temperers taking an increased share of the original storm door, sliding door, bathtub enclosure and shower door markets. Sales of nonresidential glazing for major nonresidential buildings will remain with the primary glass companies. The regional temperers are expected to handle almost all the tempering of glazing for smaller nonresidential buildings. Thus, they will gain some of this market at the expense of local dealers and distributors. However, the distributors and dealers probably will operate as order takers for the smallest jobs. It is expected that glazing distributors and dealers will experience reduced market shares in both the residential and nonresidential new glazing markets. This will occur as a result of the transfer of business to the primary glass manufacturers and regional temperers, since tempered glass must be produced to size and it is not feasible to keep in inventory all sizes which might be needed.
(5)
Summary finding.
The Commission finds that there are unreasonable risks of injury associated with architectural glazing materials used in the architectural products listed in paragraph (a) of this section. In assessing the question of whether unreasonable risks of injury or injury potential are associated with architectural glazing materials, the Commission has balanced the degree, nature and frequency of injury against the potential effect of the standard on the ability of architectural glazing materials to meet the need of the public and the effect of the standard on the cost, utility, and availability of architectural glazing materials to meet that need. The Commission finds that this standard, including its effective date, is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce the unreasonable risks of injury associated with architectural glazing materials and that promulgation of the standard is in the public interest.
(Sec. 9(e), Pub. L. 92-573, 86 Stat. 1215 (15 U.S.C. 2058(e)) (5 U.S.C. 553)
[42 FR 1441, Jan. 6, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 57246 Dec. 7, 1978; 45 FR 57389, Aug. 28, 1980; 47 FR 27856, June 28, 1982; 49 FR 7107, Feb. 27, 1984]
§ 1201.2
Definitions.
(a) As used in this part 1201:
(1)
Annealed glass
means glass that has been subjected to a slow, controlled cooling process during manufacture to control residual stresses so that it can
be cut or subjected to other fabrication. Regular polished plate, float, sheet, rolled, and some patterned surface glasses are examples of annealed glass.
(2)
Bathtub doors and enclosures
means assemblies of panels and/or doors that are installed on the lip of or immediately surrounding a bathtub.
(3)
Category I products (Class B)
means any of the following Architectural products:
(i) Storm doors or combination doors that contain no single piece of glazing material greater than 9 square feet (0.83 square meters) in surface area of one side of the piece of glazing material.
(ii) Doors that contain no single piece of glazing material greater than 9 square feet (0.83 square meters) in surface area of one side of the piece of glazing material.
(4)
Category II products (Class A)
means any of the following architectural products:
(i) Shower doors and enclosures.
(ii) Bathtub doors and enclosures.
(iii) Sliding glass doors (patio type).
(iv) Storm doors or combination doors that contain any piece of glazing material greater than 9 square feet (0.83 square meters) in surface area of one side of the piece of glazing material.
(v) Doors that contain any piece of glazing material greater than 9 square feet (0.83 square meters) in surface area of one side of the piece of glazing material.
(5)
Distributor
means a person to whom a consumer product is delivered or sold for purposes of distribution in commerce, including persons cutting glazing material to size, except that such term does not include a manufacturer or retailer of such product.
(6)
Distribution in commerce
means to sell in commerce, to introduce or deliver for introduction into commerce, or to hold for sale or distribution after introduction into commerce.
(7)
Door
means an assembly that is installed in an interior or exterior wall; that is movable in a sliding, pivoting, hinged, or revolving manner of movement; and that is used by consumers to produce or close off an opening for use as a means of human passage.
(8)
Fabricator
means any person who assembles or otherwise incorporates glazing materials into an architectural product listed in § 1201.1(a). A fabricator is considered a manufacturer as defined in paragraph (a)(16) of this section.
(9)
Glass
means a hard, brittle, amorphous substance produced by fusion, usually consisting of mutually dissolved silica and silicates that also contains sods and lime. It may be transparent, translucent, or opaque.
(10) [Reserved]
(11)
Glazing material
means glass, including annealed glass, organic coated glass, tempered glass, laminated glass, wired glass; or combinations thereof where these are used:
(i) In openings through the architectural products listed in § 1201.1(a), or
(ii) As the architectural products themselves, e.g. unframed doors.
(12)
Jalousie door
means a door (as “door” is defined in paragraph (a)(7) of this section) having an opening glazed with operable, overlapping louvers. Each louver is one of a series of overlapping pieces of glazing material designed to admit ventilation and light but exclude rain and is typically operated by a crank and gear mechanism.
(13)
Laminated glass
means glazing material composed of two or more pieces of glass, each piece being either tempered glass, heat strengthened glass, annealed glass or wired glass, bonded to an intervening layer or layers of resilient plastic material.
(14)
Leaded glass
means a decorative composite glazing material made of individual pieces of glass whose perimeter is enclosed by lengths of durable metal such as lead or zinc and the pieces of glass are completely held together and supported by such metal. Such pieces of glass can be clear, colored, beveled, painted, or flashed and etched.
(15)
Manufacture
means to manufacture, produce or assemble.
(16)
Manufacturer
means any person who manufactures, fabricates or imports a glazing material or architectural product listed in § 1201.1(a) that incorporates glazing material.
(17)
Mirror
means a treated, polished or smooth glazing material that forms images by the reflection of light.
(18)
Mobile home
means a structure transportable in one or more sections, which is eight body feet (2.4 body meters) or more in width and is thirty-two body feet (9.7 body meters) or more in length, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.
(19)
Other buildings or parts thereof
means buildings or parts thereof (other than residential, school, public, or recreational buildings) in which all or part of the building is open to the public with or without specific invitation. Included are buildings or parts thereof such as banks and recreational or retail facilities in a building and multiuse buildings that contain residential units.
(20)
Organic-coated glass
means a glazing material consisting of a piece of glass, coated and bonded on one or both sides with an applied polymeric coating, sheeting, or film.
(21)
Patio door
(See “sliding glass doors (patio-type)” in paragraph (a)(31) of this section).
(22)
Permanent label
means a label that will remain permanently legible and visible after installation of the glazing material and that would be destroyed in attempts to remove it from the glazing material and includes (but is not limited to) sandblast, acid etch, hot-stamp, and destructible polyester labels.
(23) [Reserved]
(24)
Private labeler
means an owner of a brand or trademark on the label of a consumer product which bears a private label, and includes any fabricator, distributor, or installer who cuts certified and permanently labeled glazing materials into smaller pieces.
(25)
Public building
means a building of public assembly or meeting including (but not limited to) a museum, place of worship, or restaurant.
(26)
Recreational building
means a building used for recreational purposes including (but not limited to) a theater, stadium, gymnasium, amusement park building or library.
(27)
Residential building
means a building, permanent or temporary, such as a single or multifamily residence, including (but not limited to) a house, apartment building, lodging home, dormitory, hotel, motel, hospital, sanitarium, and nursing home, used as a dwelling for one or more persons or families and any structure which is attached to, a part of, or appurtenant to such a building. Public areas of all residential buildings, such as lobbies and other common facilities, are included within the definition of “other buildings or parts thereof” in paragraph (a)(19) of this section. For purposes of this part 1201, a mobile home as defined in paragraph (a)(18) of this section is not considered to be a residential building.
(28)
Retailer
means a person to whom a consumer product is delivered or sold for purposes of sale or distribution by such person to a consumer; the term retailer includes a person who cuts glazing material to size for consumers.
(29)
School building
means a building designed primarily for the conduct of educational instruction and includes the classrooms, libraries, administrative offices, auditoriums, eating and sanitary facilities, stadiums, gymnasiums and all other structures associated with such buildings.
(30)
Shower door and enclosure
means an assembly of one or more panels installed to form all or part of the wall and or door of a shower stall.
(31)
Sliding glass door (patio-type)
means an assembly of one or more panels, at least one of which is suitably movable for use as a means of human ingress or egress. The term includes the nonmovable and movable panels of such assembly.
(32)
Storm door (or combination door)
means a movable assembly, used in tandem with an exterior door to protect the exterior door against weather elements and/or to improve indoor climate control.
(33)
Tempered glass
means a piece of specially heat treated or chemically treated glass that cannot be cut, drilled, ground, or polished after treatment without fracture. When fractured at any point, if highly tempered, the entire piece breaks into small particles.
(34)
Wired glass
means a single piece of annealed glass that contains wire embedded in the body of the glass.
(35)
Commission
means the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
(36)
Carved glass
means a decoration glazing material in which a permanent visible design has been produced by polishing, grinding, or otherwise removing portions of the surface.
(37)
Dalle glass
or dalle de verre (including faceted glass) means a decorative composite glazing material made of individual pieces of glass which are imbedded in a cast matrix of concrete or epoxy.
(b) Definitions given in the Consumer Product Safety Act, and not repeated in this section, are applicable to this part.
(c) Test methods and recommended practices published by the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)
1
, and referred to in this part 1201, are hereby incorporated by reference into this part.
1
ASTM test methods and recommended practices are approved by, published by, and available for purchase from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.
(d) Test methods and recommended practices published by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and referred to in this part 1201, are hereby incorporated by reference into this part.
(Sec. 9(e), Pub. L. 92-573, 86 Stat. 1215; (15 U.S.C. 2058(e); (5 U.S.C. 553))
[42 FR 1441, Jan. 6, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 61860, Dec. 7, 1977; 43 FR 50422, Oct. 30, 1978; 43 FR 57247, Dec. 7, 1978; 45 FR 57389, Aug. 28, 1980; 47 FR 27856, June 28, 1982; 81 FR 15431, Mar. 23, 2016]
§ 1201.3
General requirements.
(a) All glazing materials to which this standard applies, as described in § 1201.1, shall meet the impact and environmental test requirements in § 1201.4, and shall be labeled by manufacturers in accordance with § 1201.5.
(b) Glazing materials used in architectural products not listed in § 1201.1(a) are not subject to this part. Any material not listed in the definition of “glazing material” in § 1201.2(a)(11) is not subject to this part 1201.
[42 FR 1441, Jan. 6, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 27856, June 28, 1982]
§ 1201.4
Test procedures.
Except as provided in §§ 1201.1(c) and (d), architectural glazing products shall be tested in accordance with all of the applicable test provisions of ANSI Z97.1-2015 “
American National Standard for Safety Glazing Materials Used in Building—Safety Performance Specifications and Methods of Test,”
approved March 2015. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from ANSI Customer Service Department, 25 W. 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036. You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[81 FR 15431, Mar. 23, 2016]
§ 1201.5
Certification and labeling requirements.
(a) Manufacturers and private labelers of glazing materials covered by this part 1201 shall comply with the requirements of section 14 CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2063) and regulations issued under section 14.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Organic-coated glass that has been tested for environmental exposure from one side only must bear a permanent label on the coating stating “GLAZE THIS SIDE IN” and shall bear in the central 50 percent of the surface area the following message in letters at least
1/4
inch (7 millimeters) high: “SEE PERMANENT LABEL FOR IMPORTANT MOUNTING INSTRUCTION.” The latter message shall be attached to either side of the glazing by any means
which shall ensure the message will remain in place until installation.
[42 FR 1441, Jan. 6, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 66007, Oct. 6, 1980]
§ 1201.6
Prohibited stockpiling.
(a)
Stockpiling.
For the purposes of this section, the term
stockpiling
means manufacturing or importing the affected products between the date of issuance of this part in the
Federal Register
and the effective date set out below in § 1201.7 at a rate significantly greater (prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section) than the rate at which the affected products were produced or imported during a base period (prescribed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section).
(b)
Prohibited acts.
Manufacturers and importers of glazing materials, fabricators, and manufacturers or importers of architectural products specified in § 1201.1(a) who incorporate glazing material shall not incorporate glazing materials which do not comply with the requirements of this part 1201 into such products between the date of issuance of this part in the
Federal Register
and the effective date set out in § 1201.7 below at a rate greater than the rate of production or importation during the base period (defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) plus ten percent. For wired glass used in doors or other assemblies subject to this part 1201 and intended to retard the passage of fire, when such doors or other assemblies are required by a Federal, State, local or municipal fire ordinance, the rate of production during the base period may be increased annually by no more than 10 percent.
(c)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1)
Rate of production (or importation)
means the total number of affected architectural products incorporating glazing material not complying with this part manufactured or imported during a stated base period.
(2)
Base period
means, at the option of the manufacturer or importer, any period of 180 consecutive days prior to January 6, 1977, said period to be selected within an interval which begins July 6, 1975.
§ 1201.7
Effective date.
The effective date of this part 1201 shall be July 6, 1977 except:
(a) For glazing materials used in doors or other assemblies subject to this part and intended to retard the passage of fire when such doors or other assemblies are required by a Federal, State, or local or municipal fire ordinance, the effective date shall be January 6, 1980.
(b) Architectural glazing materials manufactured before July 6, 1977 may be incorporated into architectural products listed in § 1201.1(a) through July 5, 1978 if:
(1) The architectural glazing material conforms to ANSI Standard Z97.1-1972 or 1975, “Performance Specifications and Methods of Test for Safety Glazing Material Used in Buildings,” 1972 or 1975
2
, which is incorporated by reference, and
2
Copies of ANSI Standard Z97.1-1972 or 1975 are available from the American National Standards Institute, 1430 Broadway, New York, New York 10018. They are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register. These materials are incorporated as they exist in the editions which have been approved by the Director of the Federal Register and which have been filed with the Office of the Federal Register.
(2) The architectural glazing material is permanently labeled to indicate it conforms to ANSI Z97.1-1972 or 1975 or is accompanied by a certificate certifying conformance to ANSI Z97.1 1972 or 1975.
(c) Tempered glass manufactured before July 6, 1977 may be incorporated into architectural products listed in § 1201.1(a) through July 5, 1981 if:
(1) The tempered glass conforms to ANSI Z97.1-1972 or 1975; and
(2) The tempered glass is permanently labeled to indicate it conforms to ANSI Z97.1-1972 or 1975 or is accompanied by a certificate certifying conformance to ANSI Z97.1-1972 or 1975.
(d) Laminated glass manufactured on or after July 6, 1977 through December
3, 1977 may be incorporated into category II products as defined in § 1201.2(a)(4) through July 5, 1978 if:
(1) The laminated glass conforms to ANSI Z97.1-1972 or 1975; and
(2) The laminated glass is permanently labeled to indicate that it conforms to ANSI Z97.1-1972 or 1975 or is accompanied by a certificate in accordance with section 14(a) of the CPSA certifying conformance to ANSI Z97.1-1972 or 1975.
(e) Architectural products manufactured between July 6, 1977 and July 5, 1978 incorporating glazing material in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, may be distributed and sold without restriction.
(f) Architectural products manufactured between July 6, 1977 and July 5, 1981 incorporating tempered glass in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, may be distributed and sold without restriction.
(g) Architectural products identified in § 1201.2(a)(4) manufactured between July 6, 1977 and July 5, 1978 incorporating laminated glass in accordance with § 1201.7(d) may be distributed and sold without restriction.
(h) Patinaed glass manufactured between July 6, 1977 and January 8, 1979, in accordance with the Commission's stay order published in the
Federal Register
of August 9, 1977 (42 FR 40188), may be sold without restriction. Architectural products incorporating such glazing may also be sold without restriction.
[43 FR 50422, Oct. 30, 1978, as amended at 43 FR 57247, Dec. 7, 1978; 46 FR 63250, Dec. 31, 1981]
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Statements of Policy and Interpretation
§ 1201.40
Interpretation concerning bathtub and shower doors and enclosures.
(a)
Purpose and background.
The purpose of this section is to clarify the scope of the terms “bathtub doors and enclosures” and “shower door and enclosure” as they are used in the Standard in subpart A. The Standard lists the products that are subject to it (§ 1201.1(a)). This list includes
bathtub doors and enclosures,
a term defined in the Standard to mean “assemblies of panels and/or doors that are installed on the lip of or immediately surrounding a bathtub” (§ 1201.2(a)(2)). The list also includes
shower doors and enclosures,
a term defined to mean “(assemblies) of one or more panels installed to form all or part of the wall and/or door of a shower stall” (§ 1201.2(a)(30)). Since the Standard became effective on July 6, 1977, the question has arisen whether the definitions of these products include glazing materials in a window that is located over a bathtub or within a shower stall and in the exterior wall of a building. The definitions of the terms “bathtub doors and enclosures” and “shower door and enclosure” contain no specific exemption for glazing materials in such windows. If read literally, the Standard could include glazing materials in an exterior wall window located above a bathtub because that window could be interpreted as being “immediately surrounding” the bathtub. Similarly, the Standard, if read literally, could include glazing materials in an exterior wall window because that window could be interpreted as forming “all or part of the wall * * * of a shower stall.”
(b)
Interpretation.
When the Consumer Product Safety Commission issued the Standard, it did not intend the standard to apply to any item of glazing material in a window that is located over a bathtub or within a shower stall and in the exterior wall of a building. The Commission clarifies that the Standard does not apply to such items of glazing material or such windows. This interpretation applies only to the term “bathtub doors and enclosures” and “shower door and enclosure” and does not affect the applicability of the Standard to any other product.
[46 FR 45751, Sept. 15, 1981]
Pt. 1202

# PART 1202—SAFETY STANDARD FOR MATCHBOOKS
Sec.
1202.1
Scope and effective date.
1202.2
Findings.
1202.3
Definitions.
1202.4
Matchbook general requirements.
1202.5
Certification.
1202.6
Marking.
1202.7
Prohibited stockpiling.

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 3, 7, 9, 14, 16, and 19. Pub. L. 92-573, 86 Stat. 1212-17 (15 U.S.C. 2051, 2052, 2056, 2058, 2063, 2065, and 2068).

# Source:
43 FR 53709, Nov. 17, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1202.1
Scope and effective date.
(a)
Scope.
This part 1202, a consumer product safety standard, prescribes the safety requirements, including labeling requirements, for the matchbook. This part 1202 applies to all matchbooks manufactured in or imported into the United States after its effective date.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date shall be May 4, 1978.
§ 1202.2
Findings.
1
1
The Commission's findings apply to the matchbook standard that it published on May 4, 1977 (42 FR 22656-70). On Mar. 31, 1978, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit set aside portions of that standard (
D. D. Bean
Sons, Co.
v.
CPSC,
574 F. 2d 643). On Nov. 17, 1978, the Commission published a revised version of the standard which reflects the court's decision. However, the findings have not been revised and they are therefore not fully applicable to the revised matchbook requirements. For example, the revised standard does not address the unreasonable risk of injury of “[b]urn injuries that have been sustained by persons from fires that have been set by the afterglow of extinguished bookmatches” (§ 1202.2(a)(6)) because the court set aside the afterglow performance requirement.
(a)
Risk of injury.
The Commission finds that unreasonable risks of injury from accidents are associated with matchbooks. These unreasonable risks, which this part 1202 is intended to reduce or eliminate, are:
(1) Burn injuries, sustained by children and others, including mentally or physically impaired persons, who play with or otherwise improperly use bookmatches.
(2) Burn injuries sustained by persons who use bookmatches that fragment or have delayed ignition.
(3) Eye injuries sustained by persons who use bookmatches that fragment and cause particles from such matches to lodge in a person's eye.
(4) Burn injuries sustained by persons who use bookmatches that, when struck, ignite the remaining matches in the matchbook.
(5) Burn injuries sustained by persons from fires that have resulted from unexpected ignition of bookmatches with no deliberate action by the user.
(6) Burn injuries that have been sustained by persons from fires that have been set by the afterglow of extinguished bookmatches.
(b)
Products subject to this standard.
(1) The products subject to this standard are those kinds of manufactured ignition devices known as matchbooks. The matchbook consists of a group of bookmatches joined together and fastened within a cover. Although matchbooks are commonly referred to as paper matches or paper-stem matches to distinguish them from individual stick matches such as wooden stem matches packaged in boxes, all matchbooks, regardless of the materials of manufacture of the covers or of the bookmatches fastened within, are subject to this standard.
(2) Matchbooks subject to this standard can be divided into two basic categories: Resale matchbooks and special reproduction matchbooks. Resale matchbooks can be subdivided into advertising and nonadvertising matchbooks. Nonadvertising matchbooks are generally sold by large chain stores, and constitute a small portion of the total resale matchbook volume. Resale matchbooks with advertising are generally given away by tobacco shops, drug stores, vending firms, and other mass distribution outlets. Special reproduction matchbooks, characterized by their distinctive and unique cover designs, are purchased and distributed for promotional purposes by hotels, restaurants, financial institutions, and other business enterprises, and are given free to users.
(3) The Commission estimates that resale matchbooks accounted for almost 75 percent of the volume of matchbooks in 1975, or about 15 billion matchbooks, while special reproduction matchbooks accounted for just over 25 percent, or about 5.5 billion matchbooks.
(c)
Effects on utility, cost, and availability.
(1) The Commission finds that the public need for ignition devices which are small, portable, and can be
used to provide a source of fire, is substantial since such products meet basic requirements for a source of fire to ignite tobacco products, fires, candles, or other products, and are also used for miscellaneous other purposes such as providing short term illumination. Three types of products: Matchbooks, individual stick matches, and lighters, predominantly supply the source of fire to meet these requirements.
(i) The Commission estimates that in 1976 U.S. consumers required approximately 645 billion such fire sources or “lights,” as they are known, with almost 98 percent of this total required for tobacco products. In the aggregate, the requirements by U.S. consumers for a source of fire has been growing at an annual rate of approximately 3 percent. Matchbooks, the products regulated in this standard, are estimated to have supplied about 65 percent of the source of lights, lighters accounted for about 25 percent, and individual stick matches (primarily wooden-stem type) accounted for the remainder.
(ii) The Commission also finds that matchbooks fulfill a need by institutions and business enterprises for a particular form of specialty advertising that is both relatively inexpensive and effective in reaching a specified audience or population segment with the advertiser's message. Various studies of matchbooks as a form of advertising have found that readership can average 3 to 15 times higher than average readership, listenership, and viewership figures from competing media such as magazines, newspapers, radio, and television, and that readership retention of the matchbook advertising message was extremely high, about 45 percent. In addition, matchbooks tend to be considerably less expensive than other forms of specialty advertising, including those competing advertising items such as address books, key cases, litterbags, and the like, which are themselves relatively inexpensive.
(2) The Commission finds that the standard will have no adverse effects on the utility that consumers derive from matchbooks. To the extent that injuries and property damage associated with the use of matchbooks is reduced or eliminated as a result of this standard, the utility of matchbooks as a source of fire will be increased.
(3) The Commission estimates that manufacturing cost increases as a direct or indirect effect of this standard will be modest for the industry as a whole. Such increases will tend to be concentrated in one-time costs to complete changeover to reverse friction, and in costs to establish and implement testing programs and certification procedures.
(i) Because some 80-90 percent of the matchbooks produced annually are given free to consumers, there is not likely to be any direct cost impact on the consumer as a result of the standard. Some proportion of increased manufacturing costs will be passed on to the institutions and business enterprises that purchase matchbooks for promotional purposes. To the extent that increases in advertising and promotional costs may be reflected in higher prices for goods and services sold by these businesses, there may be indirect cost effects on consumers. If so, such impacts would likely be small, if not imperceptible.
(ii) For the 12-20 percent of matchbooks that are purchases at retail by consumers, some proportion of any manufacturing cost increases may be passed on to the consumer. A resulting increase in retail prices for such matchbooks will be small, no more than a few cents per box of 50 matchbooks.
(4) The Commission finds that the standard will not have impacts of significant magnitude on the availability of matchbooks. Although some institutions and business enterprises may reduce their matchbook purchases or eliminate them in response to any increased price of matchbooks, the large number of such purchasers, and the large volume purchased annually, are such that curtailment of purchases by some businesses is likely to have very small effects on the total number of matchbooks available to U.S. consumers.
(d)
Alternatives.
(1) The Commission has considered other means of achieving the objective of the standard throughout the course of its development. Certain other more elaborate test requirements were considered and
were shown to have the potential for severe adverse effects on competition and estimated to result in disruptions and dislocations of manufacturing and commercial practices. Therefore, having considered and rejected such other means of achieving the objective of the standard, the Commission has found none that would cause less disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices, consistent with the public health and safety than this standard.
(2) Because of competition from substitute products such as inexpensive disposable butane lighters and because of other prevailing business and economic conditions, the industry manufacturing matchbooks has been in a state of contraction in recent years. This contraction, marked by the exit of some firms and by plant closings or consolidations, is likely to continue in the future; but this will neither be the result of, nor significantly accelerated by, effects of the standard. Currently, aggressive price and service competition prevails among firms vying for customer accounts. It is anticipated that this competition for sales may increase as an indirect effect of the standard. To the extent that this occurs, there may be some disruption or dislocation of manufacturing, sales, or distribution practices in certain matchbook product categories and market segments. Marginal firms and firms producing limited product categories or for limited market segments may be affected to a greater degree than multiproduct category or multimarket firms.
(e)
Conclusion.
The Commission finds that this standard, including its effective date, is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce the unreasonable risks of injury associated with matchbooks and that the issuance of the standard is in the public interest.
§ 1202.3
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions given in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052), the following definitions apply for the purpose of this standard:
(a)
Bookmatch
means a single splint, with a matchhead attached, that comes from a matchbook.
(b)
Bridge
means the matchhead material held in common by two or more splints.
(c)
Broken bridge
means a bridge that has become separated.
(d)
Caddy
means a package of two or more matchbooks wrapped or boxed together at a production plant.
(e)
Comb
means a piece of wood, paper, or other suitable material that has been formed into splints, that remain joined at their base, and that are designed to have matchheads attached to their tips.
(f)
Cover
means the paperboard or other suitable material that is wrapped around and fastened to the comb(s).
(g)
Friction
means the dried chemical mixture on the matchbook cover used to ignite the bookmatch.
(h)
Match
means a single splint with matchhead attached.
(i)
Matchbook
means one or more combs with matchheads attached and a cover that is wrapped around and fastened to those combs.
(j)
Matchhead
means the dried chemical mixture on the end of a splint.
(k)
Splint
means the support for the matchhead or that portion normally held when using the bookmatch.
§ 1202.4
Matchbook general requirements.
A matchbook shall meet the following general requirements:
(a) The friction shall be located on the outside back cover near the bottom of the matchbook.
(b) The cover shall remain closed without external force.
(c) No friction material shall be located on the inside of the cover where possible contact with the matchheads may occur during ordinary use.
(d) There shall be no bridge(s) or broken bridge(s).
(e) No matchhead in the matchbook shall be split, chipped, cracked, or crumbled.
(f) No portion of any matchhead shall be outside the matchbook cover when the cover is closed.
(g) No part of a staple or other assembly device for securing the cover and combs shall be within or touching the friction area.
(h) A staple used as an assembly device for securing the cover and combs
shall be fully clinched so that the ends are flattened or turned into the cover.
§ 1202.5
Certification.
Certification shall be in accordance with section 14(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2063(a)). Under this provision, manufacturers and private labelers of products subject to safety standards must certify that their products conform to the standard, based on either a test of each product or on a reasonable testing program.
§ 1202.6
Marking.
(a) The manufacturer's or private labeler's name and city or a symbol which will identify the name and city shall appear on the matchbook. In addition, every private labeler must label the matchbook with a code which enables it to identify, if requested, the manufacturer of the product.
(b) Boxes or cartons in which two or more caddies are shipped shall be marked “For safety, store in a cool, dry place.”
§ 1202.7
Prohibited stockpiling.
Section 9(d)(2) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2058(d)(2)) authorizes the Commission to prohibit manufacturers and importers from stockpiling a product subject to a consumer product safety standard between its date of issuance and its effective date. A manufacturer or importer is in violation of Section 9(d)(2) and of this section if it fails to comply with the following:
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
Base period
means, at the option of the manufacturer or importer concerned, any period of 365 consecutive days beginning on or after January 1, 1973, and ending on or before December 31, 1975.
(2)
Rate of production (or importation)
means the total number of matchbooks manufactured (or imported) during a stated time period. In determining whether a matchbook was manufactured during a stated time period, the date on which the cover and combs were assembled to form a matchbook shall be used. In the event that a manufacturer currently operates a matchbook manufacturing plant that it did not operate during the base period, or that it did not operate for an entire base period, that manufacturer shall use, as the rate of production during the base period for that plant, either (i) the average daily rate of production (including nonproduction days such as Sundays, holidays, and vacations) for the part of the base period he did operate that plant, multiplied by 365 or (ii) the rate of production during the base period of his most nearly similar matchbook manufacturing plant.
(b)
Prohibited act.
Manufacturers and importers of matchbooks, as these products are defined in § 1202.3(i), shall not manufacture or import matchbooks that do not comply with the requirements of this part between the date that this part is issued and the date that it becomes effective at a rate that is greater than the rate of production or importation during the base period plus 15 percent of that rate.
(c)
Documentation.
Manufacturers and importers shall maintain, for a period of six (6) months after the effective date specified in § 1202.1(b), appropriate documentation to be able to substantiate to the Commission that they are in compliance with the provisions of this section.
Pt. 1203

# PART 1203—SAFETY STANDARD FOR BICYCLE HELMETS

# Subpart A—The Standard
Sec.
1203.1
Scope, general requirements, and effective date.
1203.2
Purpose and basis.
1203.3
Referenced documents.
1203.4
Definitions.
1203.5
Construction requirements—projections.
1203.6
Labeling and instructions.
1203.7
Samples for testing.
1203.8
Conditioning environments.
1203.9
Test headforms.
1203.10
Selecting the test headform.
1203.11
Marking the impact test line.
1203.12
Test requirements.
1203.13
Test schedule.
1203.14
Peripheral vision test.
1203.15
Positional stability test (roll-off resistance).
1203.16
Dynamic strength of retention system test.
1203.17
Impact attenuation test.

# Subpart B—Certification
1203.30
Purpose, basis, and scope.
1203.31
Applicability date.
1203.32
Definitions.
1203.33
Certification testing.
1203.34
Product certification and labeling by manufacturers (including importers).

# Subpart C—Recordkeeping
1203.40
Effective date.
1203.41
Recordkeeping requirements.

# Subpart D—Requirements for Bicycle Helmets Manufactured From March 17, 1995, Through March 10, 1999
1203.51
Purpose and basis.
1203.52
Scope and effective date.
1203.53
Interim safety standards.
Figure 1 to Part 1203—Anatomical Planes
Figure 2 to Part 1203—ISO Headform-Basic, Reference, and Median Planes
Figure 3 to Part 1203—Location of Reference Plane
Figure 4 to Part 1203—Location of Test Lines for Helmets Intended for Persons Five (5) Years of Age and Older
Figure 5 to Part 1203—Location of Tesr Lines for Helmets Intended for Persons Ages 1 and Older
Figure 6 to Part 1203—Field of Vision
Figure 7 to Part 1203—Typical Test Apparatus for Positional Stability Test
Figure 8 to Part 1203—Apparatus for Test of Retention System Strength
Figure 9 to Part 1203—Impact Test Apparatus
Figure 10 to Part 1203—Center of Gravity for Drop Assembly
Figures 11-13 to Part 1203—Hemispherical Anvil and Curbstone Anvil

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056, 2058, and 6001-6006. Subpart B is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 2063. Subpart C is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 2065.

# Source:
63 FR 11729, Mar. 10, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—The Standard
§ 1203.1
Scope, general requirements, and effective date.
(a)
Scope.
The standard in this subpart describes test methods and defines minimum performance criteria for all bicycle helmets, as defined in § 1203.4(b).
(b)
General requirements
—(1)
Projections.
All projections on bicycle helmets must meet the construction requirements of § 1203.5.
(2)
Labeling and instructions.
All bicycle helmets must have the labeling and instructions required by § 1203.6.
(3)
Performance tests.
All bicycle helmets must be capable of meeting the peripheral vision, positional stability, dynamic strength of retention system, and impact-attenuation tests described in §§ 1203.7 through 1203.17.
(4)
Units.
The values stated in International System of Units (“SI”) measurements are the standard. The inch-pound values stated in parentheses are for information only.
(c)
Effective date.
The standard shall become effective March 10, 1999 and shall apply to all bicycle helmets manufactured after that date. Bicycle helmets manufactured from March 17, 1995 through March 10, 1999, inclusive, are subject to the requirements of Subpart D, rather than this subpart A.
§ 1203.2
Purpose and basis.
The purpose and basis of this standard is to reduce the likelihood of serious injury and death to bicyclists resulting from impacts to the head, pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 6001-6006.
§ 1203.3
Referenced documents.
(a) The following documents are incorporated by reference in this standard. (1) Draft ISO/DIS Standard 6220-1983—Headforms for Use in the Testing of Protective Helmets.
1
1
Although the draft ISO/DIS 6220-1983 standard was never adopted as an international standard, it has become a consensus national standard because all recent major voluntary standards used in the United States for testing bicycle helmets establish their headform dimensions by referring to the draft ISO standard.
(2) SAE Recommended Practice SAE J211 OCT88, Instrumentation for Impact Tests.
(b) This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR Part 51. Copies of the standards may be obtained as follows. Copies of the draft ISO/DIS Standard 6220-1983 are available from American National Standards Institute, 11 W. 42nd St., 13th Floor, New York, NY 10036. Copies of the SAE Recommended Practice SAE J211 OCT88, Instrumentation for Impact Tests, are available from Society of Automotive Engineers, 400 Commonwealth Dr., Warrendale, PA 15096. Copies may be
inspected at the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
§ 1203.4
Definitions.
(a)
Basic plane
means an anatomical plane that includes the auditory meatuses (the external ear openings) and the inferior orbital rims (the bottom edges of the eye sockets). The ISO headforms are marked with a plane corresponding to this basic plane (see Figures 1 and 2 of this part).
(b)
Bicycle helmet
means any headgear that either is marketed as, or implied through marketing or promotion to be, a device intended to provide protection from head injuries while riding a bicycle.
2
2
Helmets specifically marketed for exclusive use in a designated activity, such as skateboarding, rollerblading, baseball, roller hockey, etc., would be excluded from this definition because the specific focus of their marketing makes it unlikely that such helmets would be purchased for other than their stated use. However, a multi-purpose helmet—one marketed or represented as providing protection either during general use or in a variety of specific activities other than bicycling—would fall within the definition of bicycle helmet if a reasonable consumer could conclude, based on the helmet's marketing or representations, that bicycling is among the activities in which the helmet is intended to be used. In making this determination, the Commission will consider the types of specific activities, if any, for which the helmet is marketed, the similarity of the appearance, design, and construction of the helmet to other helmets marketed or recognized as bicycle helmets, and the presence, prominence, and clarity of any warnings, on the helmet or its packaging or promotional materials, against the use of the helmet as a bicycle helmet. A multi-purpose helmet marketed without specific reference to the activities in which the helmet is to be used will be presumed to be a bicycle helmet. The presence of warnings or disclaimers advising against the use of a multi-purpose helmet during bicycling is a relevant, but not necessarily controlling, factor in the determination of whether a multi-purpose helmet is a bicycle helmet.
(c)
Comfort or fit padding
means resilient lining material used to configure the helmet for a range of different head sizes.
(d)
Coronal plane
is an anatomical plane perpendicular to both the basic and midsagittal planes and containing the midpoint of a line connecting the right and left auditory meatuses. The ISO headforms are marked with a transverse plane corresponding to this coronal plane (see Figures 1 and 2 of this part).
(e)
Field of vision
is the angle of peripheral vision allowed by the helmet when positioned on the reference headform.
(f)
Helmet positioning index (“HPI”)
is the vertical distance from the brow of the helmet to the reference plane, when placed on a reference headform. This vertical distance shall be specified by the manufacturer for each size of each model of the manufacturer's helmets, for the appropriate size of headform for each helmet, as described in § 1203.10.
(g)
Midsagittal plane
is an anatomical plane perpendicular to the basic plane and containing the midpoint of the line connecting the notches of the right and left inferior orbital ridges and the midpoint of the line connecting the superior rims of the right and left auditory meatuses. The ISO headforms are marked with a longitudinal plane corresponding to the midsagittal plane (see Figures 1 and 2 of this part).
(h)
Modular elastomer programmer (“MEP”)
is a cylindrical pad, typically consisting of a polyurethane rubber, used as a consistent impact medium for the systems check procedure. The MEP shall be 152 mm (6 in) in diameter, and 25 mm (1 in) thick and shall have a durometer of 60±2 Shore A. The MEP shall be affixed to the top surface of a flat 6.35 mm (
1/4
in) thick aluminum plate. See § 1203.17(b)(1).
(i)
Preload ballast
is a “bean bag” filled with lead shot that is placed on the helmet to secure its position on the headform. The mass of the preload ballast is 5 kg (11 lb).
(j)
Projection
is any part of the helmet, internal or external, that extends beyond the faired surface.
(k)
Reference headform
is a headform used as a measuring device and contoured in the same configuration as one of the test headforms A, E, J, M, and O defined in draft ISO DIS 6220-1983. The reference headform shall include surface markings corresponding to the basic, coronal, midsagittal, and reference planes (see Figures 1 and 2 of this part).
(l)
Reference plane
is a plane marked on the ISO headforms at a specified distance above and parallel to the basic plane (see Figure 3 of this part).
(m)
Retention system
is the complete assembly that secures the helmet in a stable position on the wearer's head.
(n)
Shield
means optional equipment for helmets that is used in place of goggles to protect the eyes.
(o)
Spherical impactor
is an impact fixture used in the instrument system check of § 1203.17(b)(1) to test the impact-attenuation test equipment for precision and accuracy. The spherical impactor shall be a 146 mm (5.75 in) diameter aluminum sphere mounted on the ball-arm connector of the drop assembly. The total mass of the spherical-impactor drop assembly shall be 5.0±0.1 kg (11.0±0.22 lb).
(p)
Test headform
is a solid model in the shape of a human head of sizes A, E, J, M, and O as defined in draft ISO/DIS 6220-1983. Headforms used for the impact-attenuation test shall be constructed of low-resonance K-1A magnesium alloy. The test headforms shall include surface markings corresponding to the basic, coronal, midsagittal, and reference planes (see Figure 2 of this part).
(q)
Test region
is the area of the helmet, on and above a specified impact test line, that is subject to impact testing.
§ 1203.5
Construction requirements—projections.
Any unfaired projection extending more than 7 mm (0.28 in.) from the helmet's outer surface shall break away or collapse when impacted with forces equivalent to those produced by the applicable impact-attenuation tests in § 1203.17 of this standard. There shall be no fixture on the helmet's inner surface projecting more than 2 mm into the helmet interior.
§ 1203.6
Labeling and instructions.
(a)
Labeling.
Each helmet shall be marked with durable labeling so that the following information is legible and easily visible to the user:
(1) Model designation.
(2) A warning to the user that no helmet can protect against all possible impacts and that serious injury or death could occur.
(3) A warning on both the helmet and the packaging that for maximum protection the helmet must be fitted and attached properly to the wearer's head in accordance with the manufacturer's fitting instructions.
(4) A warning to the user that the helmet may, after receiving an impact, be damaged to the point that it is no longer adequate to protect the head against further impacts, and that this damage may not be visible to the user. This label shall also state that a helmet that has sustained an impact should be returned to the manufacturer for inspection, or be destroyed and replaced.
(5) A warning to the user that the helmet can be damaged by contact with common substances (for example, certain solvents [ammonia], cleaners [bleach], etc.), and that this damage may not be visible to the user. This label shall state in generic terms some recommended cleaning agents and procedures (for example, wipe with mild soap and water), list the most common substances that damage the helmet, warn against contacting the helmet with these substances, and refer users to the instruction manual for more specific care and cleaning information.
(6)
Signal word.
The labels required by paragraphs (a) (2) through (5) of this section shall include the signal word “WARNING” at the beginning of each statement, unless two or more of the statements appear together on the same label. In that case, the signal word need only appear once, at the beginning of the warnings. The signal word “WARNING” shall be in all capital letters, bold print, and a type size equal to or greater than the other text on the label.
(b)
Instructions.
Each helmet shall have fitting and positioning instructions, including a graphic representation of proper positioning.
§ 1203.7
Samples for testing.
(a)
General.
Helmets shall be tested in the condition in which they are offered for sale. To meet the standard, the helmets must be able to pass all tests, both with and without any attachments that may be offered by the helmet's manufacturer and with all possible combinations of such attachments.
(b)
Number of samples.
To test conformance to this standard, eight samples of each helmet size for each helmet model offered for sale are required.
§ 1203.8
Conditioning environments.
Helmets shall be conditioned to one of the following environments prior to testing in accordance with the test schedule at § 1203.13. The barometric pressure in all conditioning environments shall be 75 to 110 kPa (22.2 to 32.6 in of Hg). All test helmets shall be stabilized within the ambient condition for at least 4 hours prior to further conditioning and testing. Storage or shipment within this ambient range satisfies this requirement.
(a)
Ambient condition.
The ambient condition of the test laboratory shall be within 17 °C to 27 °C (63 °F to 81 °F), and 20 to 80% relative humidity. The ambient test helmet does not need further conditioning.
(b)
Low temperature.
The helmet shall be kept at a temperature of −17 °C to −13 °C (1 °F to 9 °F) for 4 to 24 hours prior to testing.
(c)
High temperature.
The helmet shall be kept at a temperature of 47 °C to 53 °C (117 °F to 127 °F) for 4 to 24 hours prior to testing.
(d)
Water immersion.
The helmet shall be fully immersed “crown” down in potable water at a temperature of 17 °C to 27 °C (63 °F to 81 °F) to a crown depth of 305 mm ±25 mm (12 in. ±1 in.) for 4 to 24 hours prior to testing.
§ 1203.9
Test headforms.
The headforms used for testing shall be selected from sizes A, E, J, M, and O, as defined by DRAFT ISO/DIS 6220-1983, in accordance with § 1203.10. Headforms used for impact testing shall be rigid and be constructed of low-resonance K-1A magnesium alloy.
§ 1203.10
Selecting the test headform.
A helmet shall be tested on the smallest of the headforms appropriate for the helmet sample. A headform size is appropriate for a helmet if all of the helmet's sizing pads are partially compressed when the helmet is equipped with its thickest sizing pads and positioned correctly on the reference headform.
§ 1203.11
Marking the impact test line.
Prior to testing, the impact test line shall be determined for each helmet in the following manner.
(a) Position the helmet on the appropriate headform as specified by the manufacturer's helmet positioning index (HPI), with the brow parallel to the basic plane. Place a 5-kg (11-lb) preload ballast on top of the helmet to set the comfort or fit padding.
(b) Draw the impact test line on the outer surface of the helmet coinciding with the intersection of the surface of the helmet with the impact line planes defined from the reference headform as shown in:
(1) Figure 4 of this part for helmets intended only for persons 5 years of age and older.
(2) Figure 5 of this part for helmets intended for persons age 1 and older.
(c) The center of the impact sites shall be selected at any point on the helmet on or above the impact test line.
§ 1203.12
Test requirements.
(a)
Peripheral vision.
All bicycle helmets shall allow unobstructed vision through a minimum of 105° to the left and right sides of the midsagittal plane when measured in accordance with § 1203.14 of this standard.
(b)
Positional stability.
No bicycle helmet shall come off of the test headform when tested in accordance with § 1203.15 of this standard.
(c)
Dynamic strength of retention system.
All bicycle helmets shall have a retention system that will remain intact without elongating more than 30 mm (1.2 in.) when tested in accordance with § 1203.16 of this standard.
(d)
Impact attenuation criteria
—(1)
General.
A helmet fails the impact attenuation performance test of this standard if a failure under paragraph (d)(2) of this section can be induced under any combination of impact site, anvil type, anvil impact order, or conditioning environment permissible under the standard, either with or without any attachments, or combinations of attachments, that are provided with the helmet. Thus, the Commission will test for a “worst case” combination of test parameters. What constitutes a worst case may vary, depending on the particular helmet involved.
(2)
Peak acceleration.
The peak acceleration of any impact shall not exceed 300 g when the helmet is tested in accordance with § 1203.17 of this standard.
§ 1203.13
Test schedule.
(a) Helmet sample 1 of the set of eight helmets, as designated in Table 1203.13, shall be tested for peripheral vision in accordance with § 1203.14 of this standard.
(b) Helmet samples 1 through 8, as designated in Table 1203.13, shall be conditioned in the ambient, high temperature, low temperature, and water immersion environments as follows: helmets 1 and 5—ambient; helmets 2 and 7—high temperature; helmets 3 and 6—low temperature; and helmets 4 and 8—water immersion.
(c) Testing must begin within 2 minutes after the helmet is removed from the conditioning environment. The helmet shall be returned to the conditioning environment within 3 minutes after it was removed, and shall remain in the conditioning environment for a minimum of 2 minutes before testing is resumed. If the helmet is out of the conditioning environment beyond 3 minutes, testing shall not resume until the helmet has been reconditioned for a period equal to at least 5 minutes for each minute the helmet was out of the conditioning environment beyond the first 3 minutes, or for 4 hours, (whichever reconditioning time is shorter) before testing is resumed.
(d) Prior to being tested for impact attenuation, helmets 1-4 (conditioned in ambient, high temperature, low temperature, and water immersion environments, respectively) shall be tested in accordance with the dynamic retention system strength test at § 1203.16. Helmets 1-4 shall then be tested in accordance with the impact attenuation tests on the flat and hemispherical anvils in accordance with the procedure at § 1203.17. Helmet 5 (ambient-conditioned) shall be tested in accordance with the positional stability tests at § 1203.15 prior to impact testing. Helmets 5-8 shall then be tested in accordance with the impact attenuation tests on the curbstone anvil in accordance with § 1203.17. Table 1203.13 summarizes the test schedule.
Table 1203.13—Test Schedule
§ 1203.14 Peripheral vision
§ 1203.15 Positional stability
§ 1203.16 Retention system strength
§ 1203.17 Impact tests
Anvil
Number of Impacts
Helmet 1, Ambient
X
X
X Flat
X Hemi
2
2
Helmet 2, High Temperature
X
X Flat
X Hemi
2
2
Helmet 3, Low Temperature
X
X Flat
X Hemi
2
2
Helmet 4, Water Immersion
X
X Flat
X Hemi
2
2
Helmet 5, Ambient
X
X Curb
1
Helmet 6, Low Temperature
X Curb
1
Helmet 7, High Temperature
X Curb
1
Helmet 8, Water Immersion
X Curb
1
§ 1203.14
Peripheral vision test.
Position the helmet on a reference headform in accordance with the HPI and place a 5-kg (11-lb) preload ballast on top of the helmet to set the comfort or fit padding. (
Note:
Peripheral vision
clearance may be determined when the helmet is positioned for marking the test lines.) Peripheral vision is measured horizontally from each side of the midsagittal plane around the point K (see Figure 6 of this part). Point K is located on the front surface of the reference headform at the intersection of the basic and midsagittal planes. The vision shall not be obstructed within 105 degrees from point K on each side of the midsagittal plane.
§ 1203.15
Positional stability test (roll-off resistance).
(a)
Test equipment
—(1)
Headforms.
The test headforms shall comply with the dimensions of the full chin ISO reference headforms sizes A, E, J, M, and O.
(2)
Test fixture.
The headform shall be secured in a test fixture with the headform's vertical axis pointing downward and 45 degrees to the direction of gravity (see Figure 7 of this part). The test fixture shall permit rotation of the headform about its vertical axis and include means to lock the headform in the face up and face down positions.
(3)
Dynamic impact apparatus.
A dynamic impact apparatus shall be used to apply a shock load to a helmet secured to the test headform. The dynamic impact apparatus shall allow a 4-kg (8.8-lb) drop weight to slide in a guided free fall to impact a rigid stop anvil (see Figure 7 of this part). The entire mass of the dynamic impact assembly, including the drop weight, shall be no more than 5 kg (11 lb).
(4)
Strap or cable.
A hook and flexible strap or cable shall be used to connect the dynamic impact apparatus to the helmet. The strap or cable shall be of a material having an elongation of no more than 5 mm (0.20 in.) per 300 mm (11.8 in.) when loaded with a 22-kg (48.5 lb) weight in a free hanging position.
(b)
Test procedure.
(1) Orient the headform so that its face is down, and lock it in that orientation.
(2) Place the helmet on the appropriate size full chin headform in accordance with the HPI and fasten the retention system in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Adjust the straps to remove any slack.
(3) Suspend the dynamic impact system from the helmet by positioning the flexible strap over the helmet along the midsagittal plane and attaching the hook over the edge of the helmet as shown in Figure 7 of this part.
(4) Raise the drop weight to a height of 0.6 m (2 ft) from the stop anvil and release it, so that it impacts the stop anvil.
(5) The test shall be repeated with the headform's face pointing upwards, so that the helmet is pulled from front to rear.
§ 1203.16
Dynamic strength of retention system test.
(a)
Test equipment.
(1) ISO headforms without the lower chin portion shall be used.
(2) The retention system strength test equipment shall consist of a dynamic impact apparatus that allows a 4-kg (8.8-lb) drop weight to slide in a guided free fall to impact a rigid stop anvil (see Figure 8 of this part). Two cylindrical rollers that spin freely, with a diameter of 12.5±0.5 mm (0.49 in.±0.02 in.) and a center-to-center distance of 76.0±1 mm (3.0±0.04 in.), shall make up a stirrup that represents the bone structure of the lower jaw. The entire dynamic test apparatus hangs freely on the retention system. The entire mass of the support assembly, including the 4-kg (8.8-lb) drop weight, shall be 11 kg±0.5 kg (24.2 lb±1.1 lb).
(b)
Test procedure.
(1) Place the helmet on the appropriate size headform on the test device according to the HPI. Fasten the strap of the retention system under the stirrup.
(2) Mark the pre-test position of the retention system, with the entire dynamic test apparatus hanging freely on the retention system.
(3) Raise the 4-kg (8.8-lb) drop weight to a height of 0.6 m (2 ft) from the stop anvil and release it, so that it impacts the stop anvil.
(4) Record the maximum elongation of the retention system during the impact. A marker system or a displacement transducer, as shown in Figure 8 of this part, are two methods of measuring the elongation.
§ 1203.17
Impact attenuation test.
(a)
Impact test instruments and equipment
—(1)
Measurement of impact attenuation.
Impact attenuation is determined by measuring the acceleration of the test headform during impact. Acceleration is measured with a uniaxial accelerometer that is capable of withstanding a shock of at least 1000 g. The helmet is secured onto the headform and dropped in a guided free fall, using a monorail or guidewire test apparatus (see Figure 9 of this part), onto an anvil fixed to a rigid base. The center of the anvil shall be aligned with the center vertical axis of the accelerometer. The base shall consist of a solid mass of at least 135 kg (298 lb), the upper surface of which shall consist of a steel plate at least 12 mm (0.47 in.) thick and having a surface area of at least 0.10 m
2
(1.08 ft
2
).
(2)
Accelerometer.
A uniaxial accelerometer shall be mounted at the center of gravity of the test headform, with the sensitive axis aligned within 5 degrees of vertical when the test headform is in the impact position. The acceleration data channel and filtering shall comply with SAE Recommended Practice J211 OCT88, Instrumentation for Impact Tests, Requirements for Channel Class 1000.
(3)
Headform and drop assembly—centers of gravity.
The center of gravity of the test headform shall be at the center of the mounting ball on the support assembly and within an inverted cone having its axis vertical and a 10-degree included angle with the vertex at the point of impact. The location of the center of gravity of the drop assembly (combined test headform and support assembly) must meet the specifications of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, Motorcycle Helmets, 49 CFR 571.218 (S7.1.8). The center of gravity of the drop assembly shall lie within the rectangular volume bounded by x=−6.4 mm (−0.25 in.), x = 21.6 mm (0.85 in.), y = 6.4 mm (0.25 in.), and y = −6.4 mm (−0.25 in.), with the origin located at the center of gravity of the test headform. The origin of the coordinate axes is at the center of the mounting ball on the support assembly. The rectangular volume has no boundary along the z-axis. The positive z-axis is downward. The x-y-z axes are mutually perpendicular and have positive or negative designations as shown in Figure 10 of this part. Figure 10 shows an overhead view of the x-y boundary of the drop assembly center of gravity.
(4)
Drop assembly.
The combined mass of the drop assembly, which consists of instrumented test headform and support assembly (excluding the test helmet), shall be 5.0±0.1 kg (11.00±0.22 lb).
(5)
Impact anvils.
Impact tests shall be performed against the three different solid (
i.e.,
without internal cavities) steel anvils described in this paragraph (a)(5).
(i)
Flat anvil.
The flat anvil shall have a flat surface with an impact face having a minimum diameter of 125 mm (4.92 in.). It shall be at least 24 mm (0.94 in.) thick (see Figure 11 of this part).
(ii)
Hemispherical anvil.
The hemispherical anvil shall have a hemispherical impact surface with a radius of 48±1 mm (1.89±0.04 in.) (see Figure 12 of this part).
(iii)
Curbstone anvil.
The curbstone anvil shall have two flat faces making an angle of 105 degrees and meeting along a striking edge having a radius of 15 mm±0.5 mm (0.59±0.02 in.). The height of the curbstone anvil shall not be less than 50 mm (1.97 in.), and the length shall not be less than 200 mm (7.87 in.) (see Figure 13 of this part).
(b)
Test Procedure
—(1)
Instrument system check (precision and accuracy).
The impact-attenuation test instrumentation shall be checked before and after each series of tests (at least at the beginning and end of each test day) by dropping a spherical impactor onto an elastomeric test medium (MEP). The spherical impactor shall be a 146 mm (5.75 in.) diameter aluminum sphere that is mounted on the ball-arm connector of the drop assembly. The total mass of the spherical-impactor drop assembly shall be 5.0±0.1 kg (11.0±0.22 lb). The MEP shall be 152 mm (6 in.) in diameter and 25 mm (1 in.) thick, and shall have a durometer of 60±2 Shore A. The MEP shall be affixed to the top surface of a flat 6.35 mm (
1/4
in.) thick aluminum plate. The geometric center of the MEP pad shall be aligned with the center vertical axis of the accelerometer (see paragraph (a)(2) of this section). The impactor shall be dropped onto the MEP at an impact velocity of
5.44 m/s±2%. (Typically, this requires a minimum drop height of 1.50 meters (4.9 ft) plus a height adjustment to account for friction losses.) Six impacts, at intervals of 75±15 seconds, shall be performed at the beginning and end of the test series (at a minimum at the beginning and end of each test day). The first three of six impacts shall be considered warm-up drops, and their impact values shall be discarded from the series. The second three impacts shall be recorded. All recorded impacts shall fall within the range of 380 g to 425 g. In addition, the difference between the high and low values of the three recorded impacts shall not be greater than 20 g.
(2)
Impact sites.
Each of helmets 1 through 4 (one helmet for each conditioning environment) shall impact at four different sites, with two impacts on the flat anvil and two impacts on the hemispherical anvil. The center of any impact may be anywhere on or above the test line, provided it is at least 120 mm (4.72 in), measured on the surface of the helmet, from any prior impact center. Each of helmets 5 through 8 (one helmet for each conditioning environment) shall impact at one site on the curbstone anvil. The center of the curbstone impacts may be on or anywhere above the test line. The curbstone anvil may be placed in any orientation as long as the center of the anvil is aligned with the axis of the accelerometer. As noted in § 1203.12(d)(1), impact sites, the order of anvil use (flat and hemispherical), and curbstone anvil sites and orientation shall be chosen by the test personnel to provide the most severe test for the helmet. Rivets and other mechanical fasteners, vents, and any other helmet feature within the test region are valid test sites.
(3)
Impact velocity.
The helmet shall be dropped onto the flat anvil with an impact velocity of 6.2 m/s±3% (20.34 ft/s±3%). (Typically, this requires a minimum drop height of 2 meters (6.56 ft), plus a height adjustment to account for friction losses.) The helmet shall be dropped onto the hemispherical and curbstone anvils with an impact velocity of 4.8 m/s±3% (15.75 ft/s±3%). (Typically, this requires a minimum drop height of 1.2 meters (3.94 ft), plus a height adjustment to account for friction losses.) The impact velocity shall be measured during the last 40 mm (1.57 in) of free-fall for each test.
(4)
Helmet position.
Prior to each test, the helmet shall be positioned on the test headform in accordance with the HPI. The helmet shall be secured so that it does not shift position prior to impact. The helmet retention system shall be secured in a manner that does not interfere with free-fall or impact.
(5)
Data.
Record the maximum acceleration in g's during impact. See Subpart C, § 1203.41(b).

# Subpart B—Certification
§ 1203.30
Purpose, basis, and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to establish requirements that manufacturers and importers of bicycle helmets subject to the Safety Standard for Bicycle Helmets (subpart A of this part 1203) shall issue certificates of compliance in the form specified.
(b)
Basis.
Section 14(a)(1) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA), 15 U.S.C. 2063(a)(1), requires every manufacturer (including importers) and private labeler of a product which is subject to a consumer product safety standard to issue a certificate that the product conforms to the applicable standard. Section 14(a)(1) further requires that the certificate be based either on a test of each product or on a “reasonable testing program.” The Commission may, by rule, designate one or more of the manufacturers and private labelers as the persons who shall issue the required certificate. 15 U.S.C. 2063(a)(2).
(c)
Scope.
The provisions of this subpart apply to all bicycle helmets that are subject to the requirements of the Safety Standard for Bicycle Helmets, subpart A of this part 1203.
§ 1203.31
Applicability date.
All bicycle helmets manufactured on or after March 11, 1999, must meet the standard and must be certified as complying with the standard in accordance with this subpart B.
§ 1203.32
Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to this subpart:
(a)
Foreign manufacturer
means an entity that manufactured a bicycle helmet outside the United States, as defined in 15 2052(a)(10) and (14).
(b)
Manufacturer
means the entity that either manufactured a helmet in the United States or imported a helmet manufactured outside the United States.
(c)
Private labeler
means an owner of a brand or trademark that is used on a bicycle helmet subject to the standard and that is not the brand or trademark of the manufacturer of the bicycle helmet, provided the owner of the brand or trademark caused, authorized, or approved its use.
(d)
Production lot
means a quantity of bicycle helmets from which certain bicycle helmets are selected for testing prior to certifying the lot. All bicycle helmets in a lot must be essentially identical in those design, construction, and material features that relate to the ability of a bicycle helmet to comply with the standard.
(e)
Reasonable testing program
means any tests which are identical or equivalent to, or more stringent than, the tests defined in the standard and which are performed on one or more bicycle helmets selected from the production lot to determine whether there is reasonable assurance that all of the bicycle helmets in that lot comply with the requirements of the standard.
§ 1203.33
Certification testing.
(a)
General.
Manufacturers, as defined in § 1203.32(b) to include importers, shall conduct a reasonable testing program to demonstrate that their bicycle helmets comply with the requirements of the standard.
(b)
Reasonable testing program.
This paragraph provides guidance for establishing a reasonable testing program.
(1) Within the requirements set forth in this paragraph (b), manufacturers and importers may define their own reasonable testing programs. Reasonable testing programs may, at the option of manufacturers and importers, be conducted by an independent third party qualified to perform such testing programs. However, manufacturers and importers are responsible for ensuring compliance with all requirements of the standard in subpart A of this part.
(2) As part of the reasonable testing program, the bicycle helmets shall be divided into production lots, and sample bicycle helmets from each production lot shall be tested. Whenever there is a change in parts, suppliers of parts, or production methods, and the change could affect the ability of the bicycle helmet to comply with the requirements of the standard, the manufacturer shall establish a new production lot for testing.
(3) The Commission will test for compliance with the standard by using the standard's test procedures. However, a reasonable testing program need not be identical to the tests prescribed in the standard.
(4) If the reasonable testing program shows that a bicycle helmet may not comply with one or more requirements of the standard, no bicycle helmet in the production lot can be certified as complying until sufficient actions are taken that it is reasonably likely that no noncomplying bicycle helmets remain in the production lot. All identified noncomplying helmets in the lot must be destroyed or altered by repair, redesign, or use of a different material or component, to the extent necessary to make them conform to the standard.
(5) The sale or offering for sale of a bicycle helmet that does not comply with the standard is a prohibited act and a violation of section 19(a) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2068(a)), regardless of whether the bicycle helmet has been validly certified.
§ 1203.34
Product certification and labeling by manufacturers (including importers).
(a)
Form of permanent label of certification.
Manufacturers, as defined in § 1203.32(a), shall issue certificates of compliance for bicycle helmets manufactured after March 11, 1999, in the form of a durable, legible, and readily visible label meeting the requirements of this section. This label is the helmet's certificate of compliance, as that term is used in section 14 of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2063.
(b)
Contents of certification label.
The certification labels required by this section shall contain the following:
(1) The statement “Complies with U.S. CPSC Safety Standard for Bicycle
Helmets for Persons Age 5 and Older” or “Complies with U.S. CPSC Safety Standard for Bicycle Helmets for Persons Age 1 and Older (Extended Head Coverage)”, as appropriate; this label may spell out “U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission” instead of “U.S. CPSC”;
(2) The name of the U.S. manufacturer or importer responsible for issuing the certificate or the name of a private labeler;
(3) The address of the U.S. manufacturer or importer responsible for issuing the certificate or, if the name of a private labeler is on the label, the address of the private labeler;
(4) The name and address of the foreign manufacturer, if the helmet was manufactured outside the United States;
(5) The telephone number of the U.S. manufacturer or importer responsible for issuing the certificate or, if the name of a private labeler is on the label, the telephone number of the private labeler;
(6) An identification of the production lot; and
(7) The uncoded month and year the product was manufactured.
(c)
Coding.
(1) The information required by paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(6) of this section, and the information referred to in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, may be in code, provided:
(i) The person or firm issuing the certificate maintains a written record of the meaning of each symbol used in the code, and
(ii) The record shall be made available to the distributor, retailer, consumer, and Commission upon request.
(2) A serial number may be used in place of a production lot identification on the helmet if it can serve as a code to identify the production lot. If a bicycle helmet is manufactured for sale by a private labeler, and if the name of the private labeler is on the certification label, the name of the manufacturer or importer issuing the certificate, and the name and address of any foreign manufacturer, may also be in code.
(d)
Placement of the label(s).
The information required by paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(5) of this section must be on one label. The other required information may be on separate labels. The label(s) required by this section must be affixed to the bicycle helmet. If the label(s) are not immediately visible to the ultimate purchaser of the bicycle helmet prior to purchase because of packaging or other marketing practices, a second label is required. That label shall state, as appropriate, “Complies with U.S. CPSC Safety Standard for Bicycle Helmets for Persons Age 5 and Older”, or “Complies with U.S. CPSC Safety Standard for Bicycle Helmets for Persons Age 1 and Older (Extended Head Coverage)”. The label shall be legible, readily visible, and placed on the main display panel of the packaging or, if the packaging is not visible before purchase (e.g., catalog sales), on the promotional material used with the sale of the bicycle helmet. This label may spell out “U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission” instead of “U.S. CPSC.”
(e)
Additional provisions for importers
—(1)
General.
The importer of any bicycle helmet subject to the standard in subpart A of this part 1203 must issue the certificate of compliance required by section 14(a) of the CPSA and this section. If a reasonable testing program meeting the requirements of this subpart has been performed by or for the foreign manufacturer of the product, the importer may rely in good faith on such tests to support the certificate of compliance, provided:
(i) The importer is a resident of the United States or has a resident agent in the United States,
(ii) There are records of such tests required by § 1203.41 of subpart C of this part, and
(iii) Such records are available to the Commission within 48 hours of a request to the importer.
(2)
Responsibility of importers.
Importers that rely on tests by the foreign manufacturer to support the certificate of compliance shall—in addition to complying with paragraph (e)(1) of this section—examine the records supplied by the manufacturer to determine that they comply with § 1203.41 of subpart C of this part.

# Subpart C—Recordkeeping
§ 1203.40
Effective date.
This subpart is effective March 10, 1999, and applies to bicycle helmets manufactured after that date.
§ 1203.41
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)
General.
Every person issuing certificates of compliance for bicycle helmets subject to the standard in subpart A of this part shall maintain records which show that the certificates are based on a reasonable testing program. The records shall be maintained for a period of at least 3 years from the date of certification of the last bicycle helmet in each production lot. These records shall be available, upon request, to any designated officer or employee of the Commission, in accordance with section 16(b) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2065(b). If the records are not physically available during the inspection because they are maintained at another location, the firm must provide them to the staff within 48 hours.
(b)
Records of helmet tests.
Complete test records shall be maintained. These records shall contain the following information.
(1) An identification of the bicycle helmets tested;
(2) An identification of the production lot;
(3) The results of the tests, including the precise nature of any failures;
(4) A description of the specific actions taken to address any failures;
(5) A detailed description of the tests, including the helmet positioning index (HPI) used to define the proper position of the helmet on the headform;
(6) The manufacturer's name and address;
(7) The model and size of each helmet tested;
(8) Identifying information for each helmet tested, including the production lot for each helmet;
(9) The environmental condition under which each helmet was tested, the duration of the helmet's conditioning, the temperatures in each conditioning environment, and the relative humidity and temperature of the laboratory;
(10) The peripheral vision clearance;
(11) A description of any failures to conform to any of the labeling and instruction requirements;
(12) Performance impact results, stating the precise location of impact, type of anvil used, velocity prior to impact, and maximum acceleration measured in g's;
(13) The results of the positional stability test;
(14) The results of the dynamic strength of retention system test;
(15) The name and location of the test laboratory;
(16) The name of the person(s) who performed the test;
(17) The date of the test; and
(18) The system check results.
(c)
Format for records.
The records required to be maintained by this section may be in any appropriate form or format that clearly provides the required information. Certification test results may be kept on paper, microfiche, computer disk, or other retrievable media. Where records are kept on computer disk or other retrievable media, the records shall be made available to the Commission on paper copies, or via electronic mail in the same format as paper copies, upon request.

# Subpart D—Requirements For Bicycle Helmets Manufactured From March 17, 1995, Through March 10, 1999
§ 1203.51
Purpose and basis.
The purpose and basis of this subpart is to protect bicyclists from head injuries by ensuring that bicycle helmets comply with the requirements of appropriate existing voluntary standards, as provided in 15 U.S.C. 6004(a).
§ 1203.52
Scope and effective date.
(a) This subpart D is effective March 17, 1995, except for § 1203.53(a)(8), which is effective March 10, 1998. This subpart D shall apply to bicycle helmets manufactured from March 17, 1995, through March 10, 1999, inclusive. Such bicycle helmets shall comply with the requirements of one of the standards specified in § 1203.53. This subpart shall be considered a consumer product safety standard issued under the Consumer Product Safety Act.
(b) The term “bicycle helmet” is defined at § 1203.4(b).
(c) These interim mandatory safety standards will not apply to bicycle helmets manufactured after March 10, 1999. Those helmets are subject to the requirements of Subparts A through C of this part 1203.
§ 1203.53
Interim safety standards.
(a) Bicycle helmets must comply with one or more of the following standards. The standards in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section are incorporated herein by reference:
(1) American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standard Z90.4-1984, Protective Headgear for Bicyclists,
(2) ASTM standards F 1447-93 or F 1447-94, Standard Specification for Protective Headgear Used in Bicycling, incorporating the relevant provisions of ASTM F 1446-93 or ASTM F 1446-94, Standard Test Methods for Equipment and Procedures Used in Evaluating the Performance Characteristics of Protective Headgear, respectively,
(3) Canadian Standards Association standard, Cycling Helmets—CAN/CSA-D113.2-M89,
(4) Snell Memorial Foundation (Snell) 1990 Standard for Protective Headgear for Use in Bicycling (designation B-90),
(5) Snell 1990 Standard for Protective Headgear for Use in Bicycling, including March 9, 1994 Supplement (designation B-90S),
(6) Snell 1994 Standard for Protective Headgear for Use in Non-Motorized Sports (designation N-94), or
(7) Snell 1995 standard for Protective Headgear for Use with Bicycles B-95.
(8) Subparts A through C of this part 1203.
(b) The incorporation by reference of the standards listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) are approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the standards may be obtained as follows. Copies of the ANSI Z90.4 standard are available from: American National Standards Institute, 11 W. 42nd Street, 13th Floor, New York, NY 10036. Copies of the ASTM standards are available from: ASTM, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959. Copies of the Canadian Standards Association CAN/CSA-D113.2-M89 standard are available from: CSA, 178 Rexdale Boulevard, Rexdale (Toronto), Ontario, Canada, M9W 1R3. Copies of the Snell standards are available from: Snell Memorial Foundation, Inc., 6731-A 32nd Street, North Highlands, CA 95660. Copies may be inspected at the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Pt. 1203, Fig. 1

# Figure 1 to Part 1203—Anatomical Planes
ER10MR98.001
Pt. 1203, Fig. 2

# Figure 2 to Part 1203—ISO Headform-Basic, Reference, and Median Planes
ER10MR98.002
Pt. 1203, Fig. 3

# Figure 3 to Part 1203—Location of Reference Plane
ER10MR98.003
Pt. 1203, Fig. 4

# Figure 4 to Part 1203—Location of Test Lines for Helmets Intended for Persons Five (5) Years of Age and Older
ER10MR98.004
Pt. 1203, Fig. 5

# Figure 5 to Part 1203—Location of Test Lines for Helmets Intended for Persons Ages 1 and Older
ER10MR98.005
Pt. 1203, Fig. 6

# Figure 6 to Part 1203—Field of Vision
ER10MR98.006
Pt. 1203, Fig. 7

# Figure 7 to Part 1203—Typical Test Apparatus for Positional Stability Test
ER10MR98.007
Pt. 1203, Fig. 8

# Figure 8 to Part 1203—Apparatus for Test of Retention System Strength
ER10MR98.008
Pt. 1203, Fig. 9

# Figure 9 to Part 1203—Impact Test Apparatus
ER10MR98.009
Pt. 1203, Fig. 10

# Figure 10 to Part 1203—Center of Gravity for Drop Assembly
ER10MR98.010
Pt. 1203, Figs. 11, 12, 13

# Figures 11, 12 and 13 to Part 1203—Hemispherical Anvil and Curbstone Anvil
ER10MR98.011
Pt. 1204

# PART 1204—SAFETY STANDARD FOR OMNIDIRECTIONAL CITIZENS BAND BASE STATION ANTENNAS

# Subpart A—The Standard
Sec.
1204.1
Scope of the standard.
1204.2
Definitions.
1204.3
Requirements.
1204.4
Electric shock protection tests.
1204.5
Manufacturer's instructions.
1204.6
Findings.

# Subpart B—Certification
1204.11
General.
1204.12
Definitions.
1204.13
Certificate of compliance.
1204.14
Certification tests.
1204.15
Qualification testing.
1204.16
Production testing.
1204.17
Records.
Figures 1-2 to Part 1204—Suggested Instrumentation for Current Monitoring Device and High Voltage Facility
Figures 3-4 to Part 1204—High Voltage Test Facility and Antenna System Test Setup

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, 14, 16, 19, 25, Pub. L. 92-573, 86 Stat. 1207, 1208, 1211-17, 1220, as amended Pub. L. 95-319, sec. 1, 92 Stat. 386, Pub. L. 94-284, 90 Stat. 503; 15 U.S.C. 2051, 2052, 2054, 2056, 2058, 2063, 2065, 2068, 2074.

# Source:
47 FR 36201, Aug. 19, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—The Standard
§ 1204.1
Scope of the standard.
(a)
General.
This subpart A of part 1204 is a consumer product safety standard which prescribes safety requirements for Citizens Band omnidirectional base station antennas. The standard is intended to reduce the risk of electrocution or serious injuries occurring if the antenna contacts an electric power line while the antenna is being put up or taken down. One way that this can be accomplished is to insulate the antenna so that if it contacts the power line, there is less of a likelihood that a harmful electric current will be transmitted from the power line through the antenna and mast and ultimately through a person holding the antenna mast. Another possible way to provide this protection is to incorporate an insulating barrier between the antenna and the mast or other supporting structure, so that a harmful electric current will not pass from the antenna to a person in contact with the mast. (If this alternative were chosen, the feed cable from the antenna would have to be insulated or otherwise protected so that it would not provide an electrical path to the mast or a person touching the cable.)
(b)
Description of the standard
—(1)
Performance tests.
The standard describes two performance tests to determine if the means chosen by the manufacturer to protect against the shock hazard will provide adequate protection.
(i) First, there is an Insulating Material Effectiveness Test (§ 1204.4(d) of this subpart) in which a high voltage electrode or test rod is brought into contact with the antenna at any point within the protection zone established by § 1204.2(k) of this subpart to ensure that the insulation can withstand the voltage for 5 minutes without transmitting more than 5 milliamperes (mA) root-mean-square (rms) of electric current.
(ii) The other test is an Antenna-Mast System Test (§ 1204.4(e) of this subpart) which is intended to determine whether the means provided to protect against electrocution will withstand the stress imposed when an antenna-mast system falls onto a power line. This test consists of mounting the antenna to be tested on a specified mast and allowing the assembled antenna and mast to fall onto a power line of 14,500 volts rms phase to ground.
(2)
Recommended materials.
(i) Since a substantial portion of the accidents addressed by this standard occur when the antenna is being taken down after it has been installed in an outdoor environment for a number of years, the materials selected to provide protection from shock should be weather resistant.
(ii) Although other materials may also be suitable, materials meeting the following criteria should be reasonably weather resistant:
(A) Material composition includes an ultraviolet stabilizer or screen.
(B) Heat resistance of 212 °F (100 °C) without loss of elasticity (ANSI/ASTM D 746-79).
(C) Moisture absorption of not more than 0.2 percent (ANSI/ASTM D 570-77).
(D) For heat shrinkable sleeving, temperature flexibility to −40 °F (−40 °C) with no cracks (Mil Spec. MIL-I-23053C, 20 May 1976).
(3)
Warning:
Section 1204.5 of this subpart requires a statement in the instructions that the standard will not protect in every instance against electrocution caused by contact with power lines. This is because the standard is intended to provide protection for power line voltages of up to 14,500 volts. Some power lines carry more voltage than this. In addition, not all portions of the antenna are required to be insulated, and the antenna's mast is not required to be insulated. If the power line were to contact one of these uninsulated areas, an electrocution could occur. Furthermore, when the antenna was manufactured it may not in fact have complied with the standard, or the insulation may have deteriorated or been damaged since the antenna was manufactured. In addition, the insulation cannot withstand high voltages indefinitely, and, after a period of time, the current may penetrate the insulation. Therefore, even if a harmful amount of current is not transmitted immediately, the user should not attempt to remove an antenna that falls into electric power lines, since the insulation could break down while the antenna is being removed. For these reasons, persons handling these antennas should ensure that the antennas are kept away from power lines so that the antenna cannot contact the line while being transported, installed, or removed, even if the antenna is dropped. The Commission recommends that antennas be located at least twice the combined length of the antenna and mast from the nearest power line.
(c)
Scope.
(1) Except as noted below, the standard applies to all omnidirectional CB base station antennas that are consumer products and are manufactured or imported on or after May 24, 1983.
(2) The Commission may extend the effective date of the standard for as long as an additional 90 days for any firm which has 750 employees or fewer and, is not a subsidiary or division of a firm having more than 750 employees, and which manufactures or imports products subject to the standard, upon written application, addressed to the Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Administrative litigation, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, D.C. 20207, received not later than January 17, 1983. An application for extension of the effective date shall:
(i) Identify the requesting firm as a manufacturer or importer of products subject to the standard.
(ii) State the total number of employees of the firm, including all employees of any subsidiary or division, and all employees of any firm of which the requesting firm is a subsidiary or division.
(iii) Request extension of the effective date to a specific date not later than May 27, 1983.
(iv) Explain why the requested extension of the effective date is needed.
(v) Describe all activities undertaken by the requesting firm to achieve compliance with the requirements of the standard.
(vi) State that the requesting firm will market complying products after the extended effective date.
(3) The Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Administrative Litigation will evaluate each request for extension of the effective date. The following criteria will be used in determining whether to grant an application for extension of the effective date:
(i) Does the application demonstrate that the requesting firm cannot meet the general effective date,
(ii) Does the application demonstrate that the requesting firm has made a good faith effort to achieve compliance with the requirements of the standard by the general effective date.
(iii) Does the application demonstrate that the firm is likely to produce or market complying products if the requested extension is granted.
(4) The Associate Executive Director will advise each requesting firm in writing if the requested extension is granted or denied. If the Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Administrative Litigation denies a request for extension of the effective
date, the firm may request the Commission to reconsider the denial.
(5) Section 3(a)(1) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2052(a)(1) defines the term
consumer product
as an “article, or component part thereof, produced or distributed (i) for sale to a consumer for use in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation, or otherwise, or (ii) for the personal use, consumption or enjoyment of a consumer in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation, or otherwise.” The term does not include products that are not customarily produced or distributed for sale to, or for the use or consumption by, or enjoyment of, a consumer. A limited exception from coverage of the standard is provided by section 18(a) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2067, for certain products intended for export and meeting the requirements of section 18(b) of the CPSA.
(d)
Prohibited acts.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, offer for sale, distribute in commerce, or import into the United States any product subject to this standard that does not conform with the standard.
(Sec. 9(h), Pub. L. 92-573, 86 Stat. 1207, as amended, Pub. L. 95-319, 92 Stat. 386, Pub. L. 95-631, 92 Stat. 3742, Pub. L. 96-373, 94 Stat. 1366, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 703, 15 U.S.C. 2058(h))
[47 FR 36201, Aug. 19, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 29683, June 28, 1983]
§ 1204.2
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions given in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052), the following definitions apply for the purposes of this standard.
(a)
Antenna system
means a device for radiating and/or receiving radio waves. Where they are present, the antenna system includes active elements, ground plane elements, matching networks, element-connecting hardware, mounting hardware, feed cable, and other functional or non-functional elements.
(b)
Antenna-mast system
means the completed assembly of the antenna system and the mast.
(c)
Base station
means a transmitter and/or receiver in a fixed location.
(d)
Citizens Band (CB)
means the frequency band allocated for citizen's band radio service.
(e)
Current
means the total rate at which electrical charge is transported through the antenna-mast system in response to the applied test voltage, including both capacitive and resistive components.
(f)
Electrical breakdown
means a failure of the insulating material used with the antenna, such that in the Antenna-Mast System Test of § 1204.4(e) of this subpart, the current flowing through the antenna-mast system is sufficient to actuate the automatic internal cut-off of the high voltage source or exceeds the current that can be measured by the current monitoring device.
(g)
Feed cable
means the electrical cable that connects the antenna system to the transmitter and/or receiver.
(h)
Field joint
means any joint between antenna system sections or parts, or between the antenna system and the mast, that is not assembled by the antenna manufacturer.
(i)
Insulating material and insulation
mean a material that has a very small electric conductivity.
(j)
Omnidirectional antenna
means an antenna system designed or intended primarily to exhibit approximately equal signal transmission or reception capabilities in all horizontal directions simultaneously.
(k)
Protection zone
means that portion of an antenna system which can contact the test rod during the Insulating Material Effectiveness Test or can contact the power line during the Antenna-Mast System Test. This zone consists of those elements of the antenna system extending from the uppermost tip of an upright antenna downward to a point that is 12.0 inches (30.5 cm) above the top of the mast when the antenna system is mounted according to the manufacturer's instructions.
(l)
Voltage, phase to ground,
means that voltage which exists between a single phase of a three phase power system and ground.
§ 1204.3
Requirements.
All omnidirectional CB base station antennas are required to comply with the following requirements.
(a)
Field joints.
Parts or accessories intended to protect a field joint so that it will meet any other requirement of this standard, and that must be put into place by the person assembling the antenna system, shall be integral with, or not readily removable from, at least one of the antenna sections or parts involved in the joint or shall be necessary in order to complete the joint.
(b)
Feed cable.
When compliance with the requirements of this standard depends on the insulating or other properties of the feed cable, at least 50 feet of the cable shall be supplied by the manufacturer with the antenna system.
(c)
Electrical protection.
Antenna systems shall be manufactured so that if all points within the protection zone of an antenna system were tested by the Insulating Material Effectiveness Test of § 1204.4(d) of this subpart, and the Antenna-Mast System Test of § 1204.4(e) of this subpart, the current measured by the current monitoring device connected to the mast would be no greater than 5.0 milliamperes rms and no electrical breakdown of the antenna system's insulating material would occur.
§ 1204.4
Electric shock protection tests.
(a)
Safety precautions.
For tests involving high voltage, the following recommended minimum safety precautions should be followed:
(1) At least one test operator and one test observer (preferably one with cardiopulmonary resusitation (CPR) training) should be present at every test.
(2) The test area (outdoors or indoors) should secure against accidental intrusion by other persons during tests.
(3) Test areas located indoors should be ventilated to avoid buildup of potentially hazardous concentrations of gaseous byproducts which may result from the tests.
(4) Fire extinguishers should be easily accessible in case materials on the test specimen ignite.
(5) “High Voltage Test” warning devices should be activated before start of a test.
(6) Emergency phone numbers should be posted.
(b)
Test conditions
—(1)
Specimens.
All specimens shall be tested as supplied by the manufacturer, following assembly in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(2)
Temperature.
Ambient temperature shall be in the range from 32 °F (0 °C) to 104 °F (40 °C)
(3)
Relative humidity.
Ambient relative humidity shall be in the range of from 10 to 90 percent.
(4)
Voltage.
Voltage, phase to ground, of the power line or test probe shall be 14.5 kilovolts rms, 60 hertz.
(5)
Conditioning.
Prior to testing, all specimens shall be exposed for at least 4 hours to the ambient test area environment.
(c)
Test equipment.
(1) High voltage source capable of delivering at least 15 mA rms at 14.5 kV rms, 60 Hz. The source should have an automatic internal cut-off actuated by a preset current level.
(2) Instrumentation to measure the rms voltage applied to the antenna system.
(3) Current monitoring device to indicate hazardous components of the total rms current flowing to ground through the mast. One configuration of the circuitry for the current monitoring device (shown in Figure 1) consists of three parallel branches as follows. One branch consists of a resistor in series with a true-rms milliammeter with a maximum error of 5% of the reading in the frequency range of 50Hz to 10MHz (the total of the resistor and the internal resistance of the milliammeter is to be 1000 ohms). A parallel branch consists of a 1000 ohm resistor in series with a 0.08 microfarad capacitor. Another parallel branch should consist of a spark gap rated at 50 to 100 volts as a meter protection device. A different current monitoring device may be used if the measured value of the rms current corresponds to that indicated by the configuration described above.
(4) For the Insulating Material Effectiveness Test:
(i) High voltage electrode or test rod consisting of
1/4
in. (6.4 mm) diameter aluminum rod.
(ii) Support jig, structure, or hanger made of insulating material which is capable of holding antenna system test specimens electrically isolated from all surrounding structures or ground.
(5) For the Antenna-Mast System Test, a high voltage test facility, as shown in Figures 2 and 3, which includes a single power line spanning between two poles 95 to 105 feet (29 to 32 meters) apart, a tensioning device to adjust the cable sag to from 9 to 12 inches (23 to 30 cm), and a pivot fixture (Figure 2), for holding the base of an antenna-mast system, which can be moved horizontally to adjust the distance to the cable. The cable consists of
1/4
in. diameter 7 by 19 galvanized steel aircraft cable. The low point of the cable shall be between 28 and 29 feet (8.5 to 8.8 meters) above a horizontal plane through the pivot axis of the pivot fixture.
(d)
Insulating Material Effectiveness Test procedure.
(1) A short piece of typical tubular mast shall be attached to the antenna system to be tested, in accordance with mounting instructions provided with the antenna system by the manufacturer.
(2) If a feed cable is provided with the antenna system, it shall be used in the test. If no cable is provided with the antenna system, a RG-213 cable shall be used in the test (Mil Spec. MIL-C-17/75C, 15 March 1977). In either case, the cable shall be connected to the antenna system, installed parallel to the mast, and secured by taping or similar means at one point on the mast. The side of the bottom end of the cable also shall be secured to the mast.
(3) With the antenna system properly supported and isolated from ground and with the current monitoring device connected to the mast, the test rod shall be connected to the high voltage source and brought into contact with the antenna system at any point within the protection zone (see § 1204.2(k) of this subpart). For each contact point, the voltage shall be increased from 0 to 14.5 kV at a rate of at least 2 kV per second and held at 14.5 kV for 5.0 minutes. Current shall be monitored and the maximum recorded.
(e)
Antenna-Mast System Test procedure.
(1) The antenna system to be tested shall be attached to a mast in accordance with mounting instructions provided by the manufacturer. The mast shall be assembled of commercially available 1
1/4
inch outside diameter 16 gauge tubular steel sections, commonly sold for antenna-mast installations in 5 and 10 feet lengths. The slip joints between the mast sections shall be secured (as with screws) to prohibit rotational or longitudinal movement at the joint. The length of the mast shall be such that when it is mounted in the pivot fixture of the high voltage test facility, the distance from the pivot to the uppermost point on the antenna system is 41.75 to 42.25 feet (12.7 to 12.9 meters).
(2) If a feed cable is provided with the antenna system, it shall be used in the test. If no cable is provided with the antenna system, a RG-213 feed cable shall be used in the test for specification of an RG-213 cable see (Mil. Spec. MIL-C-17/75C, 15 March 1977). In either case, the cable shall be connected to the antenna system, installed parallel to the mast, and secured by taping or similar means every two feet along the length of the mast. The side of the bottom end of the cable also shall be secured to the mast.
(3) The antenna-mast system shall be mounted in the pivot fixture. The pivot fixture shall be adjusted so that the point of impact between the antenna and the power line takes place at any desired point within the antenna's protection zone. The antenna-mast system shall then be erected to a position of up to 5° from the vertical, leaning toward the simulated power line (see Figure 4). The antenna-mast system shall then be released and allowed to fall against the power line. The test may be performed with different test positions such that the antenna system flexes after impact and slides off the power line and or so that it remains in contact with the power line for 5.0 minutes. Current flow from the antenna-mast system to ground shall be monitored and recorded for each test.
(f)
Interpretation of Results.
An antenna shall pass the Insulating Material Effectiveness Test or the Antenna-Mast System Test if no electrical
breakdown occurs and if no current reading exceeds 5 mA rms.
§ 1204.5
Manufacturer's instructions.
(a) For all antennas covered under this part 1204, the following statement shall be included in the manufacturer's instructions, in addition to the material required by 16 CFR 1402.4(a)(1)(ii):
Under some conditions, this antenna may not prevent electrocution. Users should keep antenna away from any overhead wires. If antenna contacts a power line, any initial protection could fail at any time. IF ANTENNA NEARS ANY OVERHEAD WIRES, IMMEDIATELY LET GO, STAY AWAY, AND CALL UTILITY COMPANY.
(b) This warning statement shall be in a separate paragraph immediately following the warning statement required by 16 CFR 1402.4(a)(1)(ii)(A).
(c) This warning statement shall be legible and conspicuous and shall be in type that is at least as large as the largest type used on the remainder of the page, with the exception of the logo and any identification of the manufacturer, brand, model, or similar designations, and that is preferably no smaller than 10 point type.
§ 1204.6
Findings.
As required by section 9 (b) and (c) of the Consumer Product Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. 2058 (b) and (c), the Commission makes the following findings:
(a)
The degree and nature of the risk of injury the rule is designed to reduce.
(1) The rule addresses the risk of injury or death caused by electric shock occuring when the antenna comes into contact with electrical power lines while the antenna is being put up or taken down.
(2) About 175 fatalities were estimated to be associated with omnidirectional CB antennas in 1976. The estimated number of fatalities declined to about 125 in 1977 and to about 55 in 1978. Since then, the number of fatalities appears to have leveled off at about 45-50 each year. In addition to the 45-50 deaths, it is estimated that a somewhat greater number of injuries occur annually and that about half of them are serious enough to require surgery, amputation, skin grafts, etc. It is common for multiple deaths or injuries to occur in a single accident.
(3) The Commission's staff has estimated that since 1979 about 20 percent of the accidents involved antennas less than a year old, resulting in about 8 deaths in 1980.
(4) Since a substantial portion of the accidents associated with these antennas occur when the antenna is being taken down after it has been installed in an outdoor environment for a number of years, the standard recommends that materials selected to provide protection from shock be weather resistant.
(5) The standard specifies that protection shall be provided against voltages of 14,500 volts phase-to-ground. Voltages of this level or less are involved in 98 percent of the accidents and 95 percent of the total circuit mileage of distribution circuits.
(b)
The approximate number of consumer products, or types or classes thereof, subject to the rule.
(1) The standard applies to omnidirectional CB base station antennas. The Commission estimates that there were approximately 5 million omnidirectional base station antennas in use in 1981, and at that time as many as 75,000 of these antennas were expected to be sold each year for the next several years.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)(1)
The need of the public for the consumer products subject to the rule.
Omnidirectional CB base station antennas are used in non-mobile applications to obtain essentially uniform receiving and transmitting capabilities in all directions simultaneously. Although directional antennas can obtain greater reception and transmitting capabilities in one or more directions than can omnidirectionals, directionals are generally more expensive and must be oriented so that they point in the desired direction. Therefore, omnidirectional antennas are preferred by many base station operators, and they can also be used in conjunction with a directional antenna to locate another station to which the directional antenna can then be oriented.
(2) CB stations are used by individuals as a communications device for both practical and personal enjoyment purposes. Some operators volunteer to monitor the commonly used and/or emergency channels for distress calls
and summon aid where appropriate, relay messages, and aid local authorities and motorists in monitoring traffic conditions and accidents.
(3) Although operators can fabricate their own antennas, and antennas made for other purposes can be adapted for CB use, for most operators there is no adequate substitute for the commercial CB base station antennas subject to this rule.
(d)
The probable effect of the rule upon the utility, cost, and availability of the product
—(1)
Utility.
Tests performed for the Commission have shown that an external layer of insulation that will enable the antenna to comply with this standard can be provided that will have no significant effect on the performance of the antenna that cannot be compensated for by minor changes in the antenna. It is also likely that an insulated antenna's useful life would be somewhat longer than that of an uninsulated antenna. To the extent that manufacturers minimize the number of antenna elements in the protection zone, antennas should become less complex and bulky, and installation may also be eased. This may tend to make installation and removal of the antenna somewhat safer as well. If the isolation technique were used to comply with the standard, there should be no effect on the performance of the antenna.
(2)
Cost.
For the simpler designs of omnidirectional CB base station antennas, the manufacturers' production costs will be increased by approximately 20 percent, or $4 per antenna. For a few models, the production cost increase could be as much as 50 percent. Some models of antennas for which cost increases could be expected to be substantially greater will likely be discontinued. Some manufacturers already make antennas that either comply with the standard or can be made to do so with changes that involve no significant cost increases. The average rise in retail prices due to the standard is expected to be from 20 percent, or about $10 per antenna.
(3)
Availability.
The 30 or more different models of omnidirectional CB base station antennas available to consumers in 1981 are expected to be reduced in number substantially, perhaps by as much as half, after product line changes are made to meet the standard. The difference among some of the models likely to be discontinued are small (often relating only to primarily cosmetic features that provide a certain degree of product differentiation but do not significantly affect performance). Changes in product lines may be discernible to some consumers, however, since different brands and models of antennas will tend to look more alike (i.e., without upper radials, “hats” or other physical appendages previously incorporated). The availability of replacement components for older antennas may also be restricted somewhat if new, complying components are not compatible with some older models. Production of complying antennas is expected to be sufficient to satisfy demand; no overall “shortage” of antennas is anticipated as a result of the standard. Sales will, instead, shift from relatively low levels for each of many models to relatively higher levels for fewer models.
(e)
Means of achieving the objective of the order while minimizing adverse effects on competition or disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices consistent with the public health and safety.
(1) The standard may have significant adverse effects on competition among antenna producers. The additional costs associated with the standard, coupled with the recent history of decreasing sales, may cause a number of manufacturers, including one or two of the major producers, to abandon production of omnidirectional CB base station antennas. The standard is likely to impact most heavily on smaller manufacturers, which may have smaller and fewer capital sources from which to draw funds for product design and production changes and for product testing.
(2) Concentration of sales among the two largest manufacturers will probably increase as a result of the standard. However, the shrinking size of the market itself may prompt some major firms to drop this product line. Companies currently making antennas that substantially comply with the standard will probably gain a significant short-run competitive advantage over other
producers whose products do not already comply with the standard's basic provisions.
(3) Compliance with the standard may be relatively more burdensome for the smaller firms in the producing industry. Several small firms which entered the market in the early- and mid-1970's have already left the market due to the overall decrease in demand for the product. Those that remain account for less than 10 percent of annual unit shipments. None of these small firms is expected to go out of business as a result of issuance of the standard because most also produce directional CB and other base and mobile communications antennas and equipment. However, the Commission anticipates that most of these small firms will probably discontinue omnidirectional CB base station antenna production, at least temporarily, until a supplier of complying components is found, or until a decision can be made about long-term prospects.
(4) In order to minimize the adverse effects on competition and manufacturing and other commercial practices, the standard is a performance standard defined in terms of the factors the Commission determined to be significant for the protection of consumers. Thus, manufacturers have a maximum degree of flexibility in how to meet the standard, since the standard does not specify how the protection performance is to be obtained.
(5) The Commission also considered alternative technical approaches to reducing or eliminating unreasonable risks of injury associated with omnidirectional CB base station antennas, including incorporation of provisions in the standard which would allow the antenna to meet its requirements by grounding. The Commission rejected this approach because of the absence of any practical means for a consumer to ensure that the ground system will be adequate to dissipate the large amounts of power involved in a powerline contact accident. Additionally, the Commission considered the possibility that the standard might require CB base station antennas to incorporate a device to sense the electromagnetic field of a powerline. The Commission rejected this alternative because of the cost involved in such an approach, and because consumers could install an antenna even though the presence of a powerline is indicated.
(6) The Commission considered making the provisions of the standard less stringent and eliminating requirements applicable to the antenna's feed cable, in order to lessen the adverse impact of the standard on competition and manufacturing practices. However, it was determined that such changes to the standard would reduce the effectiveness of the standard and thus were not consistent with the public health and safety. Furthermore, these changes would not significantly reduce the adverse effects on competition and manufacturing practices. The elimination of requirements applicable to the feed cable would, with known technology, result in almost completely negating the benefits of the standard and is thus not consistent with the public health and safety.
(7) The Commission also considered the possibility of issuing the requirements of the standard as a voluntary test method rather than as a mandatory standard. The Commission estimated that if the provisions of the standard were issued as a voluntary test method, the total cost of such a voluntary test method to consumers during the first year after issuance would be about 30 percent of the total cost to consumers expected to result from promulgation of a mandatory standard. However, the Commission estimated that a voluntary test method would prevent only about 25 percent of the deaths and injuries which may be avoided by issuance of a mandatory standard. The Commission declined to issue the provisions of the standard as a voluntary test method because it concluded that such an approach would not only prevent fewer deaths and injuries each year than a mandatory standard, but would also have a less favorable ratio of benefits to costs than a mandatory standard.
(8) The Commission also considered the possibility of undertaking a joint effort with a trade association to inform all users of CB antennas of the dangers which can result from contact with overhead powerlines as an alternative to issuance of a mandatory
standard. The Commission observed that this alternative would have a relatively small economic impact on the industry. The Commission also observed that extensive efforts to promote public awareness of the dangers of contacting overhead powerlines have been conducted in the past by the Commission, antenna manufacturers, and utility companies, and that electrocutions and serious injuries continue to occur during installation and removal of CB base station antennas. For this reason, the Commission concluded that a public information campaign would prevent fewer deaths and injuries than issuance of a mandatory standard, and rejected such a campaign as an alternative to issuance of the standard.
(f)
The rule, including its effective date, is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury associated with the product.
(1) The provisions of the standard constitute a related system of performance parameters which are needed as a group to ensure that the performance of new antennas will provide the degree of safety which the Commission has determined is reasonably necessary. Minor changes in the value of each parameter would not significantly reduce the costs of the standard, although in some cases they could substantially reduce the standard's effectiveness.
(2) The Commission estimates that increased retail prices due to the standard will cost consumers up to about $750,000 per year. The Commission also estimates that the standard will prevent approximately 8 deaths and 8 or more injuries during the first year the standard is in effect. Thus, if the standard saves 8 lives per year, the cost of the standard will be about $94,000 for each life saved.
1
1
The Commission believes that, in the area of consumer product safety, it is not generally necessary or appropriate to assign a specific monetary value to human life. However, several studies on the costs of injuries and deaths have been conducted in recent years. Value-of-life estimates based on discounted future earnings and the willingness-to-pay approach range from about $200,000 to about $3 million. The estimated costs of the CB antenna standard per life saved fall below or within the range suggested by these value-of-life estimating methodologies.
(3) As to the benefits from reduced injuries, the Commission estimates that, if 8 injuries are prevented during the first year the standard is in effect, the actual costs saved by the accidents prevented by the standard will amount to up to $21,000 to $37,000, exclusive of pain, suffering, or disability. If a monetary factor for these less quantifiable components is included, annual injury reduction benefits could be about $288,000 to $1,680,000.
(4) The effective date of the standard was selected after balancing the increased costs to manufacturers and consumers that are associated with shorter effective dates against the benefits to the public that would be caused by having the effective date as soon as possible.
(5) The requirement for the cautionary statement in the instructions for the antenna is intended to ensure the effectiveness of the standard by discouraging any relaxation of present safety practices involving staying away from powerlines. Since instructions for this product are already required by 16 CFR part 1402, the additional statement should have little or no adverse economic impact.
(6) After considering the costs and benefits associated with the standard, the Commission concludes that the standard, including its effective date, is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of electric shock injury associated with omnidirectional CB base station antennas and that promulgation of the rule is in the public interest.

# Subpart B—Certification
§ 1204.11
General.
Section 14(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (“the act”), 15 U.S.C. 2063(a), requires each manufacturer, private labeler, or importer of a product which is subject to a Consumer Product Safety Standard and which is distributed in commerce to issue a certificate of compliance with the applicable standard and to base that certificate upon a test of each item or upon
a reasonable testing program. The purpose of this subpart B of part 1204 is to establish requirements that manufacturers and importers must follow to certify that their products comply with the Safety Standard for Omnidirectional CB base Station Antennas (16 CFR part 1204, subpart A). Private labelers of CB antennas subject to the standard need not issue a certificate of compliance if they have been furnished a certificate issued by the manufacturer or importer of the antennas. This subpart B describes the minimum features of a reasonable testing program and includes requirements for recordkeeping.
§ 1204.12
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions set forth in section 3 of the act, and in § 1204.2 of the standard, the following definitions shall apply to this subpart B of part 1204:
(a)
Private labeler
means an owner of a brand or trademark which is used on the label of a CB antenna subject to the standard, which bears a private label as defined in section 3(a)(7) of the act, 15 U.S.C. 2052(a)(7).
(b)
Production interval
means a period of time determined by the manufacturer or importer that is appropriate for conducting a test on one or more samples of the CB antennas produced during that period in order to provide a high degree of assurance that all of the products manufactured during that period meet the requirements of the standard. An appropriate production interval may vary depending on the construction of the antenna, the likelihood of variations in the production process, and the severity of the test that is used. The time period for a production interval shall be short enough to provide a high degree of assurance that if the samples selected for testing pass the test, all other CB antennas produced during the period will meet the standard.
§ 1204.13
Certificate of compliance.
(a) The manufacturer or importer of any product subject to the standard must issue the certificate of compliance required by section 14(a) of the act. If the testing required by this subpart B of part 1204 has been performed by or for the foreign manufacturer of a product, the importer may rely on such tests to support the certificate of compliance if the importer is a resident of the United States or has a resident agent in the U.S., and the records are maintained in the U.S. The importer is responsible for ensuring that the foreign manufacturer's records show that all testing used to support the certificate of compliance has been performed properly with passing or acceptable results and that the records provide a reasonable assurance that all antennas imported comply with the standard.
(b) A certificate of compliance must accompany each product or otherwise be furnished to any distributor or retailer to whom the product is delivered by the manufacturer or importer.
(c) The certificate shall state:
(1) That the product “complies with all applicable consumer product safety standards (16 CFR part 1204)”,
(2) The name and address of the manufacturer or importer issuing the certificate, and
(3) The date of manufacture and, if different from the address in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the place of manufacture.
§ 1204.14
Certification tests.
(a)
General.
As explained in § 1204.11 of this subpart, certificates of compliance required by section 14(a) of the act must be based on either a test of each item or on a reasonable testing program.
(b)
Tests of each item.
If the certificate is based on tests of each item, the tests may be either those prescribed by the standard or any other test procedure that will determine that the item tested will comply with the standard.
(c)
Reasonable testing programs
—(1)
Requirements.
(i) A reasonable testing program for a particular model of CB antennas is one which demonstrates with a high degree of assurance that all the antennas of that model will meet all requirements of the standard. Manufacturers and importers shall determine the types and frequency of testing for their own reasonable testing programs. A reasonable testing program which does not test each item produced should be sufficiently stringent that any variations in production,
etc., over the production interval would not cause any antenna to fail if tested according to the requirements of the standard.
(ii) All reasonable testing programs shall include qualification tests, which must be performed on one or more samples of the CB antennas representative of each model produced, or to be produced, to demonstrate that the product is capable of passing the tests prescribed by the standard and shall also include production tests, which must be performed during appropriate production intervals as long as the product is being manufactured.
(iii) Corrective action and/or additional testing must be performed whenever certification tests of samples of the product give results that do not provide a high degree of assurance that all antennas manufactured during the applicable production interval will pass the tests of the standard.
(2)
Testing by third parties.
At the option of the manufacturer or importer, some or all of the testing of each item or of the reasonable testing program may be performed by a commercial testing laboratory or other third party. However, the manufacturer or importer is responsible for ensuring that all certification testing has been properly performed with passing or acceptable results and for maintaining all records of such tests in accordance with § 1204.17 of this subpart.
§ 1204.15
Qualification testing.
(a)
Testing.
Before any manufacturer or importer of CB antennas which are subject to the standard distributes them in commerce, one or more samples of each model shall be tested to determine that all such antennas manufactured after the effective date of the standard will comply with the standard. The type of tests and the manner of selecting samples shall be determined by the manufacturer or importer to provide a reasonable assurance that all antennas subject to the standard will comply with the standard. Any or all of the qualification testing required by this paragraph may be performed before the effective date of the standard.
(b)
Product modifications.
If any changes are made to a product, after initial qualification testing, that could affect the ability of the product to meet the requirements of the standard, additional qualification tests must be made before the changed antennas are manufactured for sale or distributed in commerce.
§ 1204.16
Production testing.
(a)
General.
Manufacturers and importers shall test antennas subject to the standard periodically as they are manufactured, to demonstrate that the antennas meet the requirements of the standard.
(b)
Types and frequency of testing.
Manufacturers and importers shall determine the types of tests for production testing. Each production test shall be conducted at a production interval short enough to provide a high degree of assurance that, if the samples selected for testing pass the production tests, all other antennas produced during the interval will meet the standard.
(c)
Test failure
—(1)
Sale of antennas.
If any test yields results which do not indicate that all antennas manufactured during the production interval will meet the standard, production must cease and the faulty manufacturing process or design must be corrected. In addition, products manufactured before the appropriate corrective action is taken may not be distributed in commerce unless they meet the standard. It may be necessary to modify the antennas or perform additional tests to ensure that only complying antennas are distributed in commerce. Antennas which are subject to the standard but do not comply with the requirements of the standard cannot be offered for sale, distributed in commerce, or imported in the United States.
(2)
Corrective actions.
When any production test fails to provide a high degree of assurance that all antennas comply with the standard, corrective action must be taken. Corrective action may include changes in the manufacturing and/or assembly process, equipment adjustment, repair or replacement, or other action deemed appropriate by the manufacturer or importer to achieve passing production test results.
§ 1204.17
Records.
Each manufacturer or importer of CB antennas subject to the standard shall maintain the following records, which shall be maintained for 3 years after the creation of the records and shall be available to any designated officer or employee of the Commission in accordance with section 16(b) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2065(b)):
(a) Records of the qualification and production testing required by this subpart B, including a description of the types of tests conducted, the dates and results of the tests, and the production interval selected for the performance of the production testing.
(b) Records of all corrective actions taken, including the specific actions taken to improve the design or manufacture and to correct any noncomplying antenna produced during the period, the date the action was taken, and the test failure which necessitated the action.
(Information collection requirements contained in paragraph (a) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3041-0006)
Pt. 1204, Figs. 1, 2

# Figures 1 and 2 to Part 1204—Suggested Instrumentation for Current Monitoring Device and High Voltage Facility
EC03OC91.008
Pt. 1204, Figs. 3, 4

# Figures 3 and 4 to Part 1204—High Voltage Test Facility and Antenna System Test Setup
EC03OC91.009
[47 FR 36201, Aug. 19, 1982; 48 FR 57125, Dec. 28, 1983]
Pt. 1205

# PART 1205—SAFETY STANDARD FOR WALK-BEHIND POWER LAWN MOWERS

# Subpart A—The Standard
Sec.
1205.1
Scope of the standard.
1205.2
Effective date.
1205.3
Definitions.
1205.4
Walk-behind rotary power mower protective shields.
1205.5
Walk-behind rotary power mower controls.
1205.6
Warning labels for reel-type and rotary power mowers.
1205.7
Prohibited stockpiling.
1205.8
Findings.

# Subpart B—Certification
1205.30
Purpose, scope, and application.
1205.31
Effective date.
1205.32
Definitions.
1205.33
Certification testing.
1205.34
Recordkeeping requirements.
1205.35
Product certification and labeling by manufacturers.
1205.36
Product certification and labeling by importers.

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 3, 7, 9, 14, 19, Pub. L. 92-573, 86 Stat. 1207, 1208, 1212-1217, 1220, 1224; 15 U.S.C. 2051, 2052, 2056, 2058, 2063, 2068; sec. 1212, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 357.

# Source:
44 FR 10024, Feb. 15, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—The Standard
§ 1205.1
Scope of the standard.
(a)
General.
This subpart A of part 1205 is a consumer product safety standard which prescribes safety requirements for certain walk-behind power lawn mowers, including labeling and performance requirements. The performance requirements of the standard apply to rotary mowers. The labeling requirements apply to both rotary and reel-type mowers. The standard is intended to reduce the risk of injury to consumers caused by contact, primarily of the foot and hand, with the rotating blade of the mower. A detailed discussion of the risk of injury and of the anticipated costs, benefits, and other factors associated with the standard is contained in § 1205.8
Findings.
(b)
Scope.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all walk-behind rotary and reel-type power lawn mowers manufactured or imported on or after the effective date of the standard are subject to the requirements of this standard if they are “consumer products”. “Walk behind power lawn mower” is defined as a grass cutting machine with a minimum cutting width of 12 in (305 mm) that employs an engine or motor as a power source. Section 3(a)(1) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (“CPSA”), 15 U.S.C. 2052(a)(1), defines the term
consumer product
as an “article, or component part thereof, produced or distributed (i) for sale to a consumer for use in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation, or otherwise, or (ii) for the personal use, consumption or enjoyment of a consumer in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation, or otherwise.” The term does not include products that are not customarily produced or distributed for sale to, or for the use or consumption by, or enjoyment of, a consumer.
(2) It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, offer for sale, distribute in commerce, or import into the United States any product subject to this standard that is not in conformity with the standard. The Commission is not applying the standard to rental transactions or to the ultimate sale of used rental mowers by rental firms.
(c)
Exclusions
—(1)
General.
Mowers that have all three of the following characteristics are not covered by the standard:
(i) A cutting width of 30 in (762 mm) or greater,
(ii) A weight of 200 lb (90.7 kg) or more, and
(iii) For engine-powered mowers, an engine of 8 horsepower (6 kw) or more.
(2)
Reel-type mowers.
Reel-type power lawn mowers need not meet the performance requirements of the standard but they must be labeled as required by § 1205.6.
§ 1205.2
Effective date.
This standard applies to all rotary walk behind power lawn mowers manufactured after June 30, 1982, except § 1205.6
Warning labels,
applies to rotary and reel-type walk-behind power lawn
mowers manufactured after December 31, 1979.
[44 FR 10024, Feb. 15, 1979, as amended 45 FR 86417, Dec. 31, 1980]
§ 1205.3
Definitions.
(a) As used in this part 1205:
(1)
Blade
means any rigid or semi-rigid device or means that is intended to cut grass during mowing operations and includes all blades of a multi-bladed mower.
(2)
Blade tip circle
means the path described by the outermost point of the blade as it moves about its axis.
(3)
Crack
means a visible external fissure in a solid body caused by tensile, compressive, or shear forces.
(4)
Cutting width
means the blade tip circle diameter or, for a multi-bladed mower, the width, measured perpendicular to the forward direction, of a composite of all blade tip circles.
(5)
Deform
means any visible alteration of shape or dimension of a body caused by stresses induced by external forces.
(6)
Engine
means a power producing device which converts thermal energy from a fuel into mechanical energy.
(7)
Manual starting
means starting the mower engine with power obtained from the physical efforts of the operator.
(8)
Maximum operating speed
means the maximum revolutions per minute (rpm) obtainable by the engine or motor under the conditions of the particular test where the term is used. For an electrically powered mower, it is the speed attained when the mower is energized from a 60 Hz alternating current source that delivers a voltage no greater than 120 V and no less than 115 V at the power input to the mower, with the mower running. For a battery-powered mower, it is the speed attained after the battery has been fully charged in accordance with the mower manufacturer's instructions.
(9)
Motor
means a power producing device that converts electrical energy into mechanical energy.
(10)
Normal starting means
is the primary mechanism intended to be actuated by the operator to start a mower's engine or motor (e.g., the cord mechanism of a manual start engine, the switch of an electric motor, or a power start mechanism).
(11)
Operating control zone
means the space enclosed by a cylinder with a radius of 15 in (381 mm) having a horizontal axis that is (1) perpendicular to the fore-aft centerline of the mower and (2) tangent to the rearmost part of the mower handle, extending 4 in (102 mm) beyond the outermost portion of each side of the handle (See Fig. 1).
EC03OC91.010
(12)
Power source
means an engine or motor.
(13)
Reel-type mower
means a lawn mower which cuts grass by rotating one or more helically formed blades about a horizontal axis to provide a shearing action with a stationary cutter bar or bed knife.
(14)
Rotary mower
means a power lawn mower in which one or more cutting blades rotate in essentially a horizontal plane about at least one vertical axis.
(15)
Separate
means to cause to have any apparent relative displacement induced by external forces.
(16)
Shield
means a part or an assembly which restricts access to a hazardous area. For the purposes of this part 1205, the blade housing is considered a shield.
(17)
Stress
means a force acting across a unit area in a solid material in resisting separation, compacting, or sliding that tends to be induced by external forces.
(18)
Top of the mower's handles
means the uppermost portion(s) of the handle that would be gripped by an operator in the normal operating position.
(19)
Walk-behind power lawn mower
means a grass cutting machine either pushed or self-propelled, with a minimum cutting width of 12 in (305 mm) that employs an engine or a motor as a power source and is normally controlled by an operator walking behind the mower.
(b) Where applicable, the definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) apply to this part 1205.
[44 FR 10024, Feb. 15, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 54934, Nov. 5, 1981]
§ 1205.4
Walk-behind rotary power mower protective shields.
(a)
General requirements.
Walk-behind rotary power mowers shall meet the following requirements:
(1) When the foot probe of Fig. 2 is inserted under any point within the areas
to be probed during the foot probe test of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the shields shall prevent the foot probe from entering the path of the blade or causing any part of the mower to enter the path of the blade.
EC03OC91.011
(2) Any shield located totally or partly within the areas to be probed, as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, shall not permanently separate, crack, or deform when the shield is subjected to a 50 lb (222 N) static tensile force, uniformly distributed over not less than half the length of the
shield. The force shall be applied for at least 10 seconds in the direction which produces the maximum stress on the shield. While being tested, a shield shall be attached to the mower in the manner in which it is intended to be used. (This requirement does not apply to the housing.)
(3) During the obstruction test of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, shields shall not:
(i) Stop the mower as a result of contact with the raised obstacle,
(ii) Enter the path of the blade, or
(iii) Cause more than one wheel at a time to be lifted from the fixture surface.
(b)
Shield tests—general
—(1)
Foot probe test.
(i) The following test conditions shall be observed:
(A) The test shall be performed on a smooth level surface.
(B) Pneumatic tires, when present, shall be inflated to the cold pressures recommended by the mower manufacturer.
(C) The mower housing shall be adjusted to its highest setting relative to the ground.
(D) The blade shall be adjusted to its lowest position relative to the blade housing.
(E) The mower shall be secured so that the mower may not move horizontally but is free to move vertically.
(ii)
Areas to be probed.
(A)(
1
) The minimum area to be probed shall include an area both 60 degrees to the right and 60 degrees to the left of the rear of the fore-aft centerline of the cutting width. For single-blade mowers, these angles shall be measured from a point on this fore-aft centerline which is at the center of the blade tip circle (see Fig. 3). For multi-blade mowers, these angles shall be measured from a point on the fore-aft centerline of the cutting width which is one half of the cutting width forward of the rearmost point of the composite of all the blade tip circles (See Fig. 4).
EC03OC91.012
EC03OC91.013
(
2
) For a mower with a swing-over handle, the areas to be probed shall be determined as in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A)(
1
) of this section from both possible rear positions. (See Fig. 5.)
EC03OC91.014
(B) Where a 360 degree foot protective shield is required by § 1205.5(a)(1)(iv)(B) or § 1205.5(c), the entire periphery of the mower shall be probed (including any discharge chute comprising part of the periphery).
(iii)
Procedure.
Within the areas specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii), the foot probe of Fig. 2 shall be inserted under the bottom edge of the blade housing and shields. During each insertion, the “sole” of the probe shall be kept in contact with the supporting surface. Insertion shall stop when the mower housing lifts or the horizontal force used to insert the probe reaches 4 lb (17.8 N), whichever occurs first. As the foot probe is withdrawn after each insertion, the “toe” shall be pivoted upward around the “heel” as much as possible without lifing the mower.
(2)
Obstruction test.
(i) The following test conditions shall be observed:
(A) Pneumatic tires, when present, shall be inflated to the cold pressure recommended by the mower manufacturer.
(B) The mower housing shall be at its highest setting relative to the ground.
(ii) The test shall be performed on the fixture of Fig. 6, which consists of a level surface having (A) a 0.99 in (25 mm) deep depression with a 5.90 in (150 mm) radius of curvature and (B) a raised obstacle 0.60 in (15 mm) square, each extending the full width of the fixture. The depression shall be lined with a material having a surface equivalent to a 16- to 36-grit abrasive. The depression and the obstacle shall be located a sufficient distance apart so that the mower contacts only one at a time.
EC03OC91.015
(iii) The test fixture may be relieved, only to the extent necessary, to prevent interference with any blade retaining device.
(iv) The mower shall be pushed forward and pulled rearward perpendicular to and across the depression and the raised obstacle on the fixture. The mower shall be pulled and pushed, without lifting, with a horizontal force sufficient to transit the obstruction fixture at a speed not to exceed 2.2 ft/sec (0.7 m/sec).
(c)
Movable shields
—(1)
General.
Movable shields must meet the general shield requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. In addition, movable shields which are in any of the areas to be probed defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section and which are intended to be movable for the purpose of attaching auxiliary equipment, when deflected to their extreme open position in the manner intended by the manufacturer and released, shall either:
(i) Return automatically to a position that meets the requirements of subpart A of this part 1205 when the attached equipment is not present, or
(ii) Prevent operation of the blade(s) unless the attached equipment is present or the movable shield is returned to a position that meets the requirements of subpart A of this part 1205.
(2)
Tests.
(i) Automatic return of a movable shield shall be determined by manually deflecting the shield to its extreme open position, then releasing the shield and visually observing that it immediately returns to the closed position.
(ii) Prevention of operation of the blade(s) shall be determined, first by manually deflecting the shield to its extreme open position, then, following the appropriate manufacturer's instructions, completing the procedures necessary to operate the blade. Observe, using any safe method, that the blade(s) has been prevented from operating.
[44 FR 10024, Feb. 15, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 86417, 86418, Dec. 31, 1980; 46 FR 54934, Nov. 5, 1981; 48 FR 6328, Feb. 11, 1983]
§ 1205.5
Walk-behind rotary power mower controls.
(a)
Blade control systems
—(1)
Requirements for blade control.
A walk-behind rotary power mower shall have a blade control system that will perform the following functions:
(i) Prevent the blade from operating unless the operator actuates the control.
(ii) Require continuous contact with the control in order for the blade to continue to be driven.
(iii) Cause the blade motion in the normal direction of travel to come to a complete stop within 3.0 seconds after release of the control.
(iv) For a mower with an engine and with only manual starting controls, this blade control shall stop the blade without stopping the engine, unless:
(A) The engine starting controls for the lawn mower are located within 24 inches from the top of the mower's handles, or
(B) The mower has a protective foot shield which extends 360 degrees around the mower housing (see § 1205.4 (b)(1)(ii)(B)).
1
1
Paragraphs (A) and (B) of § 1205.5(a)(1)(iv), permitting mowers that stop the blade by stopping the engine but that do not have power restart, were added to the standard as directed by Sec. 1212 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 357.
(2) All walk-behind rotary power mowers shall have, in addition to any blade control required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, another means which must be manually actuated before a stopped blade can be restarted. This additional means may be either a control which is separate from the control required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or may be incorporated into the control required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section as a double-action device requiring two distinct actions to restart the blade.
(b)
Blade stopping test
—(1)
General.
Any test method that will determine the time between the release of the blade control and the complete stop of the blade motion in the normal direction of travel may be used.
(2)
Conditions.
(i) The mower shall be operated at maximum operating speed
for at least 6 minutes immediately prior to the test.
(ii) The blade must be at maximum operating speed when the blade control is released.
(c)
Starting controls location.
Walk-behind mowers with blades that begin operation when the power source starts shall have their normal starting means located within the operating control zone unless the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(iv) (A) or (B) of this section apply to the mowers.
[44 FR 10024, Feb. 15, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 54934, Nov. 5, 1978]
§ 1205.6
Warning label for reel-type and rotary power mowers.
(a)
General.
Walk-behind power lawn mowers shall be labeled on the blade housing or, in the absence of a blade housing, on other blade shielding or on an adjacent supporting structure or assembly, with the warning label shown in Fig. 7. The label shall be at least 3.25 in (82.5 mm) high and 4 in (102 mm) wide, and the lettering and symbol shall retain the same size relation to each other and to the label as shown in Fig. 7.
EC03OC91.016
(b)
Rotary mowers.
Walk-behind rotary mowers shall have one label as shown in Fig. 7, on the blade housing. The label shall be located as close as possible to any discharge opening, or, if there is no discharge opening, in a position that is conspicuous to an operator in the normal operating position.
(c)
Reel-type mowers.
Walk-behind power reel-type mowers shall have one label as shown in Fig. 7, located as close to the center of the cutting width of the blade as possible. However, in the absence of a suitable mounting surface near the center of the cutting width, the label shall be placed on the nearest suitable mounting surface to the center of the cutting width.
[44 FR 10024, Feb. 15, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 86417, Dec. 31, 1980]
§ 1205.7
Prohibited stockpiling.
(a)
Stockpiling. Stockpiling
means manufacturing or importing a product
which is the subject of a consumer product safety rule between the date of issuance of the rule and its effective date at a rate that is significantly greater than the rate at which such product was produced or imported during a base period prescribed by the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
(b)
Prohibited acts.
Stockpiling of power lawn mowers that do not comply with this subpart A of part 1205 at a rate that exceeds by 20% the rate at which the product was produced or imported during the base period described in paragraph (c) of this section is prohibited.
(c)
Base period.
The base period for power lawn mowers is, at the option of each manufacturer or importer, any period of 365 consecutive days beginning on or after September 1, 1971, and ending on or before August 31, 1978.
§ 1205.8
Findings.
(a)
General.
In order to issue a rule such as part 1205, the Consumer Product Safety Act requires the Commission to consider and make appropriate findings with respect to a number of topics. These findings are discussed below.
(b)
The degree and nature of the risk of injury part 1205 is designed to eliminate or reduce.
(1) The Commission estimates that there are approximately 77,000 injuries to consumers each year caused by contact with the blades of power lawn mowers. From 1977 data, the Commission estimates that each year there are approximately 7,300 finger amputations, 2,600 toe amputations, 2,400 avulsions (the tearing of flesh or a body part), 11,450 fractures, 51,400 lacerations, and 2,300 contusions. Among the lacerations and avulsions, 35,800 were to hands and fingers and 18,000 were to toes and feet. The estimated costs caused by these injuries are $253 million, not counting any monetary damages for pain and suffering. These injuries are caused when consumers accidentally contact the blade, either inadvertently while in the vicinity of the mower, or while intentionally performing some task which they erroneously believe will not bring their hand or foot into the path of the blade.
(2) Part 1205 is expected to eliminate or reduce the severity of about 60,000 blade contact injuries per year, or 77% of all such injuries. The Commission estimates that if all mowers had been in compliance with the standard in 1977, about 6,800 finger amputations, 1,500 toe amputations, 11,000 fractures, 1,800 avulsions, 38,400 lacerations, and several hundred contusions would not have occurred. Of the lacerations and avulsions, 28,300 were finger injuries and 9,400 were toe injuries.
(c)
Consumer products subject to the rule.
The products subject to this standard are walk-behind power mowers. Power mowers with rigid or semi-rigid rotary blades are subject to all the provisions of the standard while reel-type and rotary mowers are subject to the labeling requirements. Mowers that in combination have engines of 8 hp or greater, weigh 200 lb or more, and have a cutting width of 30 in or more are excluded from the standard. The Commission estimates that at least 98% of the total annual market (by unit volume) for walk-behind mowers will be affected by the standard, and the Commission estimates that in 1978 this market was 5.4 million units.
(d)
Need of the public for the products subject to the rule.
The Commission finds that the public need for walk-behind power mowers, which provide a relatively quick and effective way to cut grass, is substantial. Riding mowers, lawn and garden tractors, hand reel mowers, trimmers and edgers, and sickle-bar mowers also provide grass-cutting services, but walk-behind power rotary mowers are by far the most commonly used devices for maintaining household lawns. There are no devices that can completely substitute for walk-behind power mowers as a group, since they have applications for which other products are not as suitable. Each type of walk-behind power mower has individual properties which meet public needs, although one type of walk-behind is often an acceptable substitute for another. The newly developed monofilament line mower is not included within the scope of the standard and could be a substitute for mowers using rigid or semi-rigid blades under some conditions.
(e)
Probable effect of the rule upon the utility of the product.
(1) The Commission finds that the probable overall effect of the standard on the utility of mowers should be to increase their utility. In the first place, consumers are likely to experience an increased sense of security from having a safer mower. A study of brake-clutch mowers conducted by the Federal Supply Service (GSA) shows that almost all users appreciated the safety features on brake-clutch mowers. In addition, by releasing the blade control and stopping the blade, the operator can then travel over gravel or other surfaces without fear of thrown objects or of the blade striking objects that might damage the mower. Brake-clutch type mowers would also give an increase in utility by virtue of enabling the operator to use the clutch to prevent stalling when the mower bogs down in heavy grass. On the other hand, there may be some minor adverse effects on utility caused by some aspects of complying mowers. For example, in very heavy mowing conditions, there may be some difficulty in engaging the blade in a blade-clutch mower. (However, mowers that are currently on the market that are not equipped with a blade clutch may have difficulty in starting the engine in heavy grass.) Complying mowers may require slightly more time and a few additional actions to operate. Since complying mowers may have more electrical and mechanical parts than current mowers, they may weigh more and require more maintenance than current mowers. No significant increase in mowing time is expected if a brake-clutch device is used to comply with the standard since each engagement of the blade would require only a few seconds. The amount of additional time and expense required for maintenance, if any, will be dependent on the design solution used. Such disutilities are expected to be slight and to be more than balanced by the increased sense of security consumers are likely to experience from having a safer mower.
(2) During the development of the rule, questions were raised about whether changes in the shields necessitated by the foot probe requirements would adversely affect utility by causing mowers to be hard to push in grass or to be unable to mow close to walls. At the time of issuance of this rule, mowers are available that will pass a 360° foot probe and others are available that will pass rear and side foot probing without any significant loss of utility caused by shielding. Therefore, the Commission concludes that this requirement will not adversely affect the utility of mowers. Mowers with swing-over handles, however, may be more difficult to design in this regard, since 120° at each end of the mower are subject to the foot probe requirement. However, since mowers meeting this requirement have already been built without apparent loss of utility, the Commission concludes that shielding can be designed so that there should be no loss of utility even for mowers with swing-over handles.
(3) As required by section 9(b) of the CPSA, the Commission, in considering the issues involved in issuing a power lawn mower safety standard, has considered and taken into account the special needs of elderly and handicapped persons to determine the extent to which such persons may be adversely affected by the rule. The Commission has determined that there will be no significant adverse effect on such persons as a result of this part 1205. In the first place, the rule can affect only those persons who are physically capable of using a power lawn mower. None of the rule's provisions will make it more difficult to operate a mower that complies with the standard. On the contrary, complying mowers should be easier to use because the need for manually restarting the mower will be less and because, if the mower uses a brake-clutch to comply with the blade control requirement, use of the brake-clutch can reduce the tendency of the engine to stall in heavy grass. Although a person's ability to hold a device such as a blade control for a long period of time will decline with age, the force required to hold the blade control can be made low enough that it will not be a problem during the length of time that it takes for consumers to mow a lawn.
(4) After considering the possible adverse effects on mowers that could be caused by the standard and balancing
them against the increase in utility that is expected, the Commission concludes that, for a typical consumer, the increases in utility should more than offset any decreases.
(f)
Probable effect of the rule upon the cost of the product.
The Commission estimates that the retail price impact of the standard will be about $35 for the average walk-behind mower. Based on an average useful mower-life of about 8 years, the additional annual cost to the purchaser is expected to average about $4.40. The probable effect of the standard will differ on the various types of mowers within its scope. Percentage increases in price will vary from about a 7 percent increase for power-restart self-propelled mowers to about a 30 percent increase for gasoline-powered manual start push mowers. The costs attributable to individual requirements of the standard are discussed in paragraph (i) of this section.
(g)
Probable effect of the rule upon the availability of the product.
(1) The Commission finds that the standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the availability of walk-behind rotary mowers, since domestic production capacity appears to be sufficient to handle any increased demand for safety-related components or materials. Although adapting some types of power mowers to the standard may be more costly than others, the effects of the standard on the price or utility of a particular category of power mowers are not expected to cause radical shifts in demand among types of mowers. The Commission finds that all types of power mowers subject to the standard will be available, although some, such as house-current-powered mowers, may increase their market shares becauses they can be brought into compliance with the standard at a lesser cost.
(2) Because some manufacturers may not revise their entire product line before the effective date of the standard, individual mower manufacturers may initially have less varied lines than at present, but there should be no decrease in the overall types and features of mowers available to consumers.
(h)
Alternative methods.
(1) The Commission has considered other means of achieving the objective of the standard. For example, alternatives were considered such as hand probes, “blade harmless” tests, and blade control by engine kill but allowing manual restart. These alternatives have been rejected by the Commission as being either unfeasible or not as effective as the rule which is being issued.
(2) Similarly, the Commission has found no alternative means of achieving the objective of the standard that it believes would have fewer adverse effects on competition or that would cause less disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices, consistent with the public health and safety.
(i)
Unreasonable risk of injury.
(1) The determination of whether a consumer product safety rule is reasonably necessary to reduce an unreasonable risk of injury involves a balancing of the degree and nature of risk of injury addressed by the rule against the probable effect of the rule on the utility, cost, or availability of the product. The factors of utility and availability of the products, adverse effects on competition, and disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices have been discussed above. The following discussion concerns the relationship of anticipated injury reduction and costs for various requirements of the standard. (See the report,
Economic Impact of Blade Contact Requirements for Power Mowers,
January 1979, for a detailed analysis of the possible effects of discounting and inflation on the computation of the quantifiable benefits associated with this regulation.)
(2) The foot probe and related requirements are expected to reduce the number of blade contact injuries to the foot by 13,000 each year. It is not possible to apportion this injury reduction among the respective requirements. The cost of these requirements is estimated to be about $4.00 per mower, mostly for redesign of the shields. The shield strength requirement is similar to a requirement in the existing voluntary standard that is almost universally complied with, and should comprise only a small portion of the $4.00 retail cost increase compared to pre-standard mowers that is attributable to this related group of requirements.
Also, shields complying with the movable shield requirement are featured in some currently produced mowers.
(3) The foot probe and related requirements should result in a cost increase of about $22,000,000 and undiscounted injury savings of about $46,000,000, exclusive of any allowance for pain and suffering.
(4) The starting location control requirement would apply only to mowers with a power restart capability using engine kill to stop the blade. The cost for relocating the power restart switch, if necessary, should be very minor, and more than offset by the elimination of a clutch, as discussed below.
(5) The requirement that the blade stop within 3 seconds of the release of the blade control is supported by (i) the requirement that those mowers that stop the blade by stopping the engine must have a power restart (to remove the motivation to disable the blade control because of the inconven- ience of manually starting the mower each time the control is released) and by (ii) the requirement for an additional control that must be actuated before the blade can resume operation (to prevent accidental starting of the blade). Together, these requirements are expected to reduce the number of blade contact injuries by 46,500 per year for an undiscounted savings in injury costs of about $165,000,000 per year, exclusive of pain and suffering.
(6) Virtually all mowers will be subjected to a cost increase of about $3 for the blade control actuating means and $1 for the second control required to restart the blade. (The $1 cost could be eliminated for power restart-engine kill mowers that do not start when the blade control is actuated.)
(7) Also, most mowers would require a brake for the blade in order to achieve a 3 second stop time. This would add another $6.50-$8.50, depending on the type of mower. Mowers with power restart capability could stop the blade by killing the engine and thus would not need to provide a clutch to disconnect the engine from the blade. Mowers using manual restart would have to provide a clutch or other blade disengagement devices, which would probably be combined with the brake in a unitary brake-clutch mechanism.
(8) The following are the Commission's estimates of the probable retail price increases associated with certain types of currently produced mowers that will be caused by the blade control requirements.
Type of mower
Blade control retail price increases
Electric mowers (house current or battery powered)
$15.00
Present Electric start gasoline mowers
13.00-19.50
Present Manual start gasoline mowers brake clutch approach
32.50
Power restart approach
29.00-39.50
(9) The weighted average retail price increase of the blade stop requirements is expected to be about $31 per mower for a total retail cost increase of $167,000,000.
(10) The foot probe and blade stop requirements of the standard will obviously not completely protect the users of mowers under all circumstances. It is still essential for consumers to be aware of the hazard of blade contact and take the proper precautions to protect themselves. It is especially important that users not become complacent with the knowledge that the mower incorporates blade contact safety requirements. Accordingly, the Commission has determined that it is desirable that mowers complying with the standard bear a label warning of the danger of blade contact. Such a requirement would result in practically no effect on the retail price of mowers since labels are very inexpensive and practically all currently produced mowers bear some type of warning label. In view of the hazard that will be associated with power mowers even after the effective date of the standard, and the low cost of the label, the Commission concludes there is an unreasonable risk of injury that can be addressed by the label requirements in this part 1205.
(j)
Conclusion.
Therefore, after considering the anticipated costs and benefits of part 1205 and the other factors discussed above, and having taken into account the special needs of elderly and handicapped persons to determine the extent to which such persons may be adversely affected by the rule, the Commission finds that part 1205 (including the effective dates) is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce
the unreasonable risk of injury associated with walk-behind power lawn mowers and that promulgation of the rule is in the public interest.
[44 FR 10024, Feb. 15, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 86417, Dec. 31, 1980]

# Subpart B—Certification

# Source:
44 FR 70386, Dec. 6, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1205.30
Purpose, scope, and application.
(a)
Purpose.
Section 14(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. 2063(a), requires every manufacturer (including importer) and private labeler of a product which is subject to a consumer product safety standard to issue a certificate that the product conforms to the applicable standard, and to base that certificate either on a test of each product or on a “reasonable testing program.” The purpose of this subpart B of part 1205 is to establish requirements that manufacturers and importers of walk-behind rotary power lawn mowers subject to the Safety Standard for Walk-Behind Power Lawn Mowers (16 CFR part 1205, subpart A), shall issue certificates of compliance in the form of specified labeling and shall keep records of the testing program on which the certificates are based.
(b)
Scope and application.
(1) The provisions of this rule apply to all rotary walk-behind power lawn mowers which are subject to the requirements of the Safety Standard for Walk-Behind Power Lawn Mowers. This rule does not apply to reel-type mowers, which are subject only to the labeling requirements of the standard.
(2) As authorized by section 14(a)(2) of the act, the Commission exempts manufacturers who manufacture or import only component parts, and private labelers, from the requirement to issue certificates. (Private labelers who are also importers must still certify.)
§ 1205.31
Effective date.
Any walk-behind rotary power mower manufactured after December 31, 1981, must meet the standard and must be certified as complying with the standard in accordance with this rule.
§ 1205.32
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions set forth in section 3 of the act (15 U.S.C. 2052) and in § 1205.3 of the standard, the following definitions shall apply to this subpart B of part 1205:
(a)
Manufacturer
means any person or firm that manufactures or imports power lawn mowers subject to this standard, and includes those that assemble power lawn mowers from parts manufactured by other firms.
(b)
Manufactured
means the earliest point at which the mower is in the form in which it will be sold or offered for sale to the consumer or is in the form in which it will be shipped to a distributor or retailer. In these forms, a “manufactured” mower may still require partial assembly by the consumer or the lawn mower dealer.
(c)
Private labeler
means an owner of a brand or trademark which is used on a power lawn mower subject to the standard and which is not the brand or trademark of the manufacturer of the mower, provided the owner of the brand or trademark has caused or authorized the mower to be so labeled and the brand or trademark of the manufacturer of such mower does not appear on the label.
(d)
Production lot
means a quantity of mowers from which certain mowers are selected for testing prior to certifying the lot. All mowers in a lot must be essentially identical in those design, construction, and material features which relate to the ability of a mower to comply with the standard.
(e)
Reasonable testing program
means any test or series of tests which are identical or equivalent to, or more stringent than, the tests defined in the standard and which are performed on one or more mowers of the production lot for the purpose of determining whether there is reasonable assurance that the mowers in that lot comply with the requirements of the standard.
§ 1205.33
Certification testing.
(a)
General.
Manufacturers and importers shall either test each individual rotary walk-behind power lawn mower (or have it tested) or shall rely
upon a reasonable testing program to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the standard.
(b)
Reasonable testing program.
(1) A reasonable testing program for rotary walk-behind power mowers is one that provides reasonable assurance that the mowers comply with the standard. Manufacturers and importers may define their own reasonable testing programs. Such reasonable testing programs may, at the option of manufacturers and importers, be conducted by an independent third party qualified to perform such testing programs.
(2) To conduct a reasonable testing program, the mowers shall be divided into production lots. Sample mowers from each production lot shall be tested in accordance with the reasonable testing program so that there is a reasonable assurance that if the mowers selected for testing meet the standard, all mowers in the lot will meet the standard. Where there is a change in parts, suppliers of parts, or production methods that could affect the ability of the mower to comply with the requirements of the standard, the manufacturer should establish a new production lot for testing.
(3) The Commission will test for compliance with the standard by using the test procedures contained in the standard. However, a manufacturer's reasonable testing program may include either tests prescribed in the standard or any other reasonable test procedures. (For example, in the shield strength test (§ 1205.4), the manufacturer might choose to use a force higher than the 50 lb force specified in the standard.)
(4) If the reasonable testing program shows that a mower does not comply with one or more requirements of the standard, no mower in the production lot can be certified as complying until the noncomplying mowers in the lot have been identified and destroyed or altered by repair, redesign, or use of a different material or components to the extent necessary to make them conform to the standard. The sale or offering for sale of mowers that do not comply with the standard is a prohibited act and a violation of section 19(a)(1) of the CPSA, regardless of whether the mower has been validly certified.
§ 1205.34
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)
General.
Every person issuing certificates of compliance for walk-behind rotary power lawn mowers subject to the standard shall maintain written records which show that the certificates are based on a test of each mower or on a reasonable testing program. The records shall be maintained for a period of at least 3 years from the date of certification of each mower or each production lot. These records shall be available to any designated officer or employee of the Commission upon request in accordance with section 16(b) of the act (15 U.S.C. 2065(b)).
(b)
Content of records.
Records shall identify the mower tested and the production lot and describe the tests the mowers have been subjected to and the results of the tests.
(c)
Format for records.
The records required to be maintained by this section may be in any appropriate form or format that clearly provides the required information.
§ 1205.35
Product certification and labeling by manufacturers.
(a)
Form of permanent label of certification.
Manufacturers (including importers) shall issue certificates of compliance for walk-behind rotary power lawn mowers manufactured after the effective date of the mower standard in the form of a label which can reasonably be expected to remain on the mower during the period the mower is capable of being used. Such labeling shall be deemed to be a “certificate” of compliance as that term is used in section 14 of the act. (15 U.S.C. 2063.)
(b)
Contents of certification label.
The certification labels required by this section shall clearly and legibly contain the following information:
(1) The statement “Meets CPSC blade safety requirements.”
(2) An identification of the production lot.
(3) The name of the person or firm issuing the certificate.
(4) The location where the product was principally assembled.
(5) The month and year the product was manufactured.
(c)
Coding.
Except for the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(3) of
this section, all of the information required by § 1205.35 may be in code, provided the person or firm issuing the certificate maintains a written record of the meaning of each symbol used in the code that will be made available to the distributor, retailer, consumer, and the Commission upon request. If a mower is manufactured for sale by a private labeler, and if the name of the private labeler is also on the certification label, the name of the manufacturer or importer issuing the certificate may also be in such a code.
(d)
Placement of label.
The label required by this section must be visible and legible to the ultimate purchaser of the lawn mower. For mowers manufactured before January 1, 1984, where the label is not visible to the consumer at the time of sale because of packaging or marketing practices, an additional label or notice, which may be temporary, stating “Meets CPSC blade safety requirements” shall also appear on the container, or, if the container is not so visible, the promotional material, used in connection with the sale of the mowers.
[44 FR 70386, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 28241, July 11, 1984]
§ 1205.36
Product certification and labeling by importers.
(a)
General.
The importer of any rotary walk-behind power lawn mower subject to the standard must issue the certificate of compliance required by section 14(a) of the Act and § 1205.35 of this regulation. If testing of each mower, or a reasonable testing program, meeting the requirements of this subpart B of part 1205 has been performed by or for the foreign manufacturer of the product, the importer may rely in good faith on such tests to support the certificate of compliance provided the importer is a resident of the United States or has a resident agent in the United States and the records of such tests required by § 1205.34 of this part are maintained in the United States.
(b)
Responsibility of importer.
If the importer relies on tests by the foreign manufacturer to support the certificate of compliance, the importer bears the responsibility for examining the records supplied by the manufacturer to determine that the records of such tests appear to comply with § 1205.34 of this part.
Pt. 1207

# PART 1207—SAFETY STANDARD FOR SWIMMING POOL SLIDES
Sec.
1207.1
Scope, purpose, and findings.
1207.2
Effective date.
1207.3
Definitions.
1207.4
Recommended standards for materials of manufacture.
1207.5
Design.
1207.6-1207.8
[Reserved]
1207.9
Product certification.
1207.10
Handling, storage, and marking.
1207.11
References.
1207.12
Stockpiling.

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 7, 9, 14, 30, Pub. L. 92-573; 86 Stat. 1207, 1212, 1215, 1220, 1236; (15 U.S.C. 2051, 2056, 2058, 2063, 2079).

# Source:
41 FR 2751, Jan. 19, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1207.1
Scope, purpose, and findings.
(a)
Scope and purpose.
This part 1207 sets forth the consumer product safety standard issued by the Consumer Product Safety Commission for the manufacture and construction of slides for use in swimming pools. The requirements of this standard are designed to reduce or eliminate the unreasonable risks of death or injury associated with swimming pool slides. This standard also makes certain recommendations regarding the installation, maintenance, and intended use of swimming pool slides that supplement its mandatory requirements. This standard is applicable to all swimming pool slides manufactured after July 17, 1976. Paragraph (b) of this section sets forth the findings which the Commission is required to make by section 9(c) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2058(c)).
(b)
Findings.
1
(1) The Commission finds that unreasonable risks of death
or injury from accidents are associated with swimming pool slides. These risks are (i) quadriplegia and paraplegia resulting from users (primarily adults using the swimming pool slide for the first time) sliding down the slide in a head first position and striking the bottom of the pool, (ii) leg fractures resulting from feet first entry, (iii) impact of sliders with other people in the pool, and (iv) falls from the slide ladder.
1
The Commission's findings apply to the swimming pool slide standard that it published on January 19, 1976 (42 FR 2751). On March 3, 1978 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit set aside portions of that standard (
Aqua Slide ‘N’ Drive Corporation
v.
CPSC,
569 F.2d 831 (5th Cir. 1978)). On December 18, 1978, the Commission published revisions to the standard which reflect the
court's decision. However, the findings have not been revised and they are therefore not fully applicable to the revised swimming pool slide requirements. For example, the revised standard does not address the risk of quadriplegia and paraplegia (except insofar as the standard specifies a low angle of attack of the slider into the water) because the court set aside the provisions concerning installation instructions and warning signs.
(2) The Commission finds that the types or classes of products that are subject to this standard are those swimming pool slides manufactured, constructed, or imported for use in connection with all swimming pools, whether in-ground, on-ground, or above-ground, regardless of the materials of manufacture or structural characteristics of the slides. It is estimated that 350,000 of these slides are currently in service and that each year the number of slides in use may increase by 5 to 10 percent.
(3) The Commission finds that the public uses swimming pool slides in recreation at both public and private swimming pools, and it is estimated that 75% of these slides are located at residential pools. It is anticipated that public demand for the products will decline slightly for a time following issuance of this standard as a result of consumer awareness of hazards associated with the product caused by the mandatory signs placed on the slides and as a result of recommendations regarding the installation and intended use of the products. The decline in demand is expected to be short-term. It is anticipated that the utility of the slides as a recreational device will be increased to the extent that injury or death associated with the use of the product is eliminated or reduced.
(4) The Commission also finds that manufacturing cost increases as a direct result of this standard and promotional cost increases as an indirect result of this standard are expected to be modest for the industry as a whole. Any resulting increase in the cost of slides to consumers attributable directly or indirectly to the requirements of this standard will be small. No adverse effect on the availability of the product to consumers is expected.
(5) The Commission has considered other means of achieving the objective of the standard, but has found none that would have fewer adverse effects on competition or that would cause less disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices, consistent with the public health and safety.
(6) The Commission also finds that this standard, including its effective date, is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce the unreasonable risks of injury associated with swimming pool slides and that promulgation of the standard is in the public interest.
[41 FR 2751, Jan. 19, 1976; 41 FR 9307, Mar. 4, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 23187, June 9, 1976; 43 FR 58813, Dec. 18, 1978]
§ 1207.2
Effective date.
This part 1207 shall become effective July 17, 1976. All swimming pool slides manufactured after that date must meet the requirements of this part 1207.
[41 FR 23187, June 9, 1976]
§ 1207.3
Definitions.
(a) As used in this part 1207:
(1)
Aboveground pool slide ladder
means a slide ladder that is not anchored in the ground or support deck and that can be removed from the slide or hinged and locked so that unauthorized or unsupervised use of the slide is prevented.
(2)
Abrasion hazard
means a sharp or rough surface of a swimming pool slide that would scrape the skin upon casual contact.
(3)
Assembled product
means all parts, components, and fasteners as defined in and assembled according to the manufacturer's assembly and installation instructions.
(4)
Bracing
means members providing structural support to the assembled, installed slide.
(5)
Casual contact
means contact of any body part with the slide occurring by chance or nonchalant encounters.
(6)
Center of gravity
means the point that represents the mean position of the concentrated mass of a body.
(7)
Curved slide
means a slide whose runway curves out of the vertical plane at any point along the slide path.
(8)
Cutting hazard
means a slide surface that would cut the skin under casual contact.
(9)
Designated waterline
means the horizontal line through whichever of the following is applicable: (i) The midpoint of the operating range of the skimmers, or (ii) on pools with overflow systems, the height of the overflow rim.
(10)
Edge guards
means shields designed to cover sharp edges on slides.
(11) [Reserved]
(12)
Freestanding slide
means a slide designed for aboveground pools that is not fastened to the pool deck or the ground. This slide may have attachments to the aboveground pool to prevent misalignment.
(13)
Friction
means the force tending to reduce the velocity of the slider on the slide.
(14) [Reserved]
(15)
Intended use
means behavior on swimming pool slides as disclosed by the manufacturer, as specified in this part 1207, or to which the slide may be subjected by a reasonable user (including reasonably foreseeable misuse).
(16)
Ladder angle
means the angle of the ladder measured from a plumbline.
(17)
Ladder platform
means a platform built into the slide ladder.
(18)
Operational strength
means the strength of the slide and/or its components after installation according to the manufacturer's instructions.
(19)
Performance test
means a test to measure the functional or structural characteristics of the slide and may include:
(i) Observations and measurements of the slide's functioning in the “intended use” mode, installed according to the manufacturer's installation instructions, and/or
(ii) Observations and measurements of the slide's response to dynamic and static loads.
(20) [Reserved]
(21)
Pinching hazard
means any configuration of slide components that would pinch or entrap the fingers or toes of a child or an adult.
(22)
Puncture hazard
means any slide surface or protrusion that would puncture a child's skin under casual contact.
(23)
Runway
means the surface on which the user slides in the intended use of a slide.
(24)
Runway rail
means a raised edge or guard that keeps the slider on the runway.
(25)
Runway length
means the length of the runway measured along its centerline.
(26)
Slide width
means the width of the slide runway measured between the inside of the left and right runway rails.
(27)
Straight slide
means a slide whose runway curves only in the vertical plane.
(28)
Swimming pool slide
means any device used to enter a swimming pool by sliding down an inclined plane.
(29)
Tamperproof
means that tools are required to alter or remove portions of the slide such as guards, treads, etc.
(30)
Trajectory
means the path of a slider's center of gravity from start to finish.
(31) [Reserved]
(32)
Tread contact surface
means foot contact surfaces of ladder, step, stair, or ramp.
[41 FR 2751, Jan. 19, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 58813, Dec. 18, 1978]
§ 1207.4
Recommended standards for materials of manufacture.
(a)
General.
The materials used in swimming pool slides should be compatible with man and compatible with the environment in which they are installed. These materials should be capable of fulfilling the design requirements prescribed by § 1207.5.
(b)
Effects of environment.
The choice of materials for swimming pool slides should be such that the operational strength of the entire slide assembly, as defined by the performance tests in
§ 1207.5, should not be adversely affected by exposure to rain, snow, ice, sunlight, local, normal temperature extremes, local normal wind variations, expected local air pollution products, and the mechanical, electrical, and chemical environment in and around swimming pools. For purposes of this part 1207, “local normal” temperature extremes and wind variations are defined as the average annual record limits for the past 10 years at any slide installation point in the U.S.A. where such statistical information exists (see reference (a) in § 1207.11)
(c)
Materials selection.
The selection of all materials for swimming pool slides should be such that all surfaces and edges that may come in contact with the user are assembled, arranged, and/or finished (deburred, polished, etc.) so that they will not constitute a cutting, pinching, puncturing, or abrasion hazard under casual contact and intended use by children or adults.
(d)
Toxicity.
The selection of materials used in swimming pool slides should be such that the assembled and installed products should not be toxic to man or harmful to the environment under intended use and reasonably foreseeable abuse or disposal. All paints and finishes used on swimming pool slides shall comply with 16 CFR 1303.2(b)(2) and 1303.4(a).
(e)
Chemical compatibility.
The selection of materials for swimming pool slides should be such that the assembled and installed product, and the parts, are chemically compatible with the materials and environment contacted under intended use and reasonably foreseeable abuse.
[41 FR 2751, Jan. 19, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 58813, Dec. 18, 1978]
§ 1207.5
Design.
(a)
Strength.
The strength of the assembled and installed swimming pool slide shall be such that no structural failures of any component part shall cause failures of any other component part of the slide as described in the performance tests in paragraphs (d)(4) and (f)(9) of this section.
(b)
Edges.
Edges of swimming pool slide runways, ladders, handrails, and deck anchor flanges shall be designed, finished (deburred, polished, etc.), or protected in such a manner as to prevent cutting human tissue on casual contact and intended use. If edge guards are used, they shall be permanently affixed to the structure in a tamper-proof fashion.
(c)
Ladders, steps, stairs, or ramps
—(1)
General.
Swimming pool slide ladders, steps, stairs, or ramps shall have treads, not rungs, if the angle of the incline is 15° or greater from a plumbline.
(2)
Angle.
Swimming pool slide ladders not using rungs shall be designed and installed in such a manner that the user's center of gravity will be approximately positioned directly over each step during the use of the ladder. When tread design ladders are used, the minimum installed angle shall be not less than 15° from a plumbline dropped from a ladder step as shown in figure A. If stairs or ramps are used to ascent to the top of the slide, they shall be designed in accordance with reference (c) of § 1207.11, pages 457-463.

# (Note:
To convert the English system values given in the figures to metric values, the following conversion factors should be used: 1 inch = 2.54 cm., 1 foot = 30.48 cm., 1 square inch = 6.452 sq. cm., 1 lb. (mass) = 0.4536 kg., 1 lb. (force) = 4.448 newtons, and 1 ft.-lb. = 1.356 newton-meters.)
EC03OC91.017
(3)
Steps
—(i)
Dimensions.
Slide ladder treads may have flat or curved tread surfaces and shall be designed so that they have a minimum tread width of 2 inches (5.08 cm) and a minimum length of 12 inches (30.48 cm) (reference (c) of § 1207.11). The riser height of slide ladder treads shall be no more than 12 inches (30.5 cm) nor less than 7 inches (17.8 cm) and shall be constant over the entire height of the ladder (reference (c) of § 1207.11).
EC03OC91.018
(ii)
Tread curvature.
If slide ladder tread surfaces are curved, they shall not have a radius of curvature less than seven times the tread width.
(iii)
Slip resistant surfaces
—(A)
General.
The tread surface of all swimming pool slide ladders shall have a slip-resistant surface that is either an integral part of or permanently attached to the ladder steps. The performance test is designed to insure that all tread slip-resistant surfaces shall have the ability to maintain a barefooted 50-percentile adult male (reference (d) of § 1207.11) at an angle of repose of 33° ±1° without movement with a safety factor of 2.0. The angle of repose is the angle formed by the intersection of the ladder rails and the line connecting the user's feet and center of gravity. The tread and the foot shall be wet for this test.
(B)
Performance test.
A wooden block shall be prepared in accordance with figure C. The contact surface area of the block shall be 8 square inches (51.61 square cm) to simulate the ball of the foot (reference (d) of § 1207.11). It shall be covered with
1/4
±
1/8
inch (.64±.32 cm) of natural or silicone rubber sponge capped with porous soft leather as shown in figure C.
EC03OC91.019
The tests shall be carried out on a slide assembled and installed according to the manufacturer's instructions. The block shall be soaked in pool water for at least 3 minutes and placed at the midpoint of the wet step with the centroid of load of the block on the longitudinal axis of the step. The block shall be loaded symmetrically on its upper bearing surface with a weight of 300±2 pounds (136.1±.9 kg). A controlled and measured force shall be applied at the tangential load ring of the block tangent to the horizontal and increased at a rate of no more than 20 pounds (88.96 newtons) per second. If the block does not move at the point that the tangential load is equal to 105 pounds (467.1 newtons), the tread surface passes this performance test. Other force-creating means that produce equal forces on the block (300±2lbs, 1,334 newtons) may be substituted for weights if they result in substantially identical slip-resistance measurements.
(iv)
Fastener requirements.
Ladder treads shall be attached to the ladder rails in such a manner that continued intended use or reasonably foreseeable abuse shall not cause any fastener to loosen, crack, or break. All attachment methods that are used to hold the ladder tread to the ladder rails shall be permanent and tamperproof. If fasteners are used for the tread-rail attachment, the number and placement of such fasteners shall not cause a failure of the tread under the ladder loading conditions specified in this paragraph (c)(3).
(v)
Aboveground pool ladders.
Above-ground pool slides equipped with swing-up ladders shall be designed so that the ladders may be fixed in the up position by a tamperproof lock.
(vi)
Ladder platforms.
Swimming pool slides whose height above the surface upon which the slide is mounted is greater than 7.5 feet (2.29 meters) shall have a platform built into the ladder. This platform shall be located at least 6 feet (1.83 meters) above the deck and shall have minimum dimensions of 12 by 12 inches (30.48 × 30.48 cm.). The floor of the platform shall have a slip-resistant surface whose performance exceeds the requirements of the tests specified in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section. A minimum dimension of two times the riser height shall be maintained from the platform to the
top of the slide runway. Transitional handrails shall be provided when a platform is used.
(vii)
Static load performance test.
Ladder treads or rungs shall be capable of supporting a 300-pound (1,334-newton) static load in the center without failure or permanent deformation.
(d)
Handrails.
Swimming pool slide ladders shall be equipped with handrails to aid the slider in safely making the transition to the runway. The handrails shall extend no more than 18 inches (45.72 cm) above the top of the slide runway platform (see figure D
1
).
EC03OC91.020
(1)
Size.
The outside diameter of handrails shall be between 1.00 and 1.90 inches (2.54 and 4.83 cm) (references (c) and (d) of § 1207.11).
(2)
Extent of handrails
—(i)
Maximum angle ladder.
If ladder handrails for a ladder inclined 15 degrees or less from the vertical extend below the slide transition area, they shall be parallel to the ladder rails at a perpendicular distance from them of 4 to 6 inches (10.16 to 15.24 cm) (see figure D
2
). The handrail shall begin 3 to 5 feet (0.91 to 1.52 meters) above the pool deck. Handrails should not provide a means of entrapment.
EC03OC91.021
(ii)
Extent of handrails for ladders, steps, stairs, or ramps.
For slides not using the minimum angle ladder (15 degrees or less from the vertical), the perpendicular distance between the ladder handrails and the ladder rails below the slide transition area shall be the distance “
l
” as shown in table 1.
Table 1—Variations of
l
Ladders: 15°
θ
40°
L
=(34.09θ
rad
−3.86) ±1″
=(86.59θ
rad
−9.80)±2.54 cm
Stairs: 40°
θ
70°
l
= 34″ ±1″
= 86.36 ±2.54 cm
Ramps: θ
70°
l
= 42″ ±1″
= 106.68±2.54 cm
(3)
Bracing of handrails.
If handrail braces are used, they shall withstand intended use and reasonably foreseeable abuse.
(4)
Attachment and strength of handrails.
Handrails and their fasteners shall withstand allowable shear, bending, and cyclical loading in intended use and reasonably foreseeable abuse. All fasteners for handrail connections shall be vibrationproof, selflocking, and tamperproof. Threaded fasteners shall be capable of withstanding a 1-foot-pound (1,356-newton meter) back-off torque.
(i)
Sockets performance test.
If handrail sockets are used, the handrail end shall be permanently fixed in the socket so that it cannot be pulled out or bent at the socket by a moment of 233 foot-pounds (316 newton-meters) applied clockwise around point A in figure E. The socket shall not permanently deform under the maximum applied loads.
EC03OC91.022
(ii)
Side forces.
If the handrail is in a socket or attached to the side of the slide runway rail, the attachment methods must be capable of withstanding all shear and bending forces induced by a 172-foot-pound (233-newton-meter) moment counterclockwise around point A in figure F.
EC03OC91.023
(iii)
Performance tests
—(A)
Strength for climbing and falls.
(
1
) Attach a pull loop to point C of the upper handrail (figure E). Point C is the point where a perpendicular to the axis of the handrail passes through point A, the socket, or other attachment point. Attach a stranded steel cable or wire rope to point C. All cables and ropes shall have at least a 1,000-pound (4,448-newton) tensile capacity. Attach a 162-pound (73.5-kg) weight to this cable at least 4 feet (1.22 meters) below point C. Observe any permanent deformation or bending on the hand-rail at point A. If none exists, the handrail passes this performance test.
(
2
) Lift the weight one foot (30.48 cm) from its maximum static position and drop it. Observe any permanent deformation of the handrail or its attachments at point A. If each handrail will still support the 162-pound (73.5-kg) weight for a period of 15 minutes and has not been bent more than 45° from its original direction, it passes this performance test.
(B)
Transition handrail strength.
Rotate the assembled slide into the horizontal position on its side on a loading dock or other platform. Move the slide into such a position that the entire
handrail assembly overhangs the platform and level the slide. Fasten the slide firmly in this position and attach a 115-pound (52.2-kg) weight to point D, as shown in figure F, and check for any visible permanent deformation of the handrail at point A. If none exists, the handrails pass this performance test.
(e)
Lubrication.
Swimming pool slides shall either be equipped with a method of lubrication (for example, water) or have a similar coefficient of friction so that the slider has a smooth, continuous slide. If water is used, the nozzles, piping, or hoses that deliver water to the runway shall be recessed or designed in such a fashion as not to interfere with a slider's progress down the slide or create tripping hazards on the slide.
(f)
Runways
—(1)
Curvature.
Slide runway curvature between the front and rear support legs of the slide shall be consistent with maintaining the slider safely on the slide during intended use and reasonably foreseeable abuse.
(2)
Dynamic equilibrium.
(i) Swimming pool slide runways, whether straight or curved, shall be designed as “balanced curves.” On a balanced curve, the test fixture discussed in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section shall stay on a trajectory that keeps it within a distance of ±41 percent of the runway width to the runway centerline at all points along the runway without contacting the runway rails.
(ii)
Performance test
—(A)
Direct measurement.
Build a wooden pallet no larger than 5 by 5 inches (12.7 × 12.7 cm), as shown in figure G. Securely attach a lead rod or bar on the pallet. Size the bar so that the weight-to-area ratio of the assembly is 1.30±0.05 lbs./sq. in. (8,960±340 newtons/sq. meter) and the pallet does not tip over when in motion. Attach a felt pen or other suitable marking device to the pallet assembly as shown in figure G to mark the slide during descent.
(B)
Test.
Lubricate the slide in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Center the pallet at the top of the slide runway and release. Observe the pallet's descent and note if it touches the slide's side rails. If it touches, check alignment and installation again. With water off and the slide dry, center the pallet at the top of the runway and release. Measure the distance from the felt pen marked line to the centerline of the runway. If within ±41 percent of the width measured from the centerline along the entire path and if the pallet does not contact the runway rails, the slide is dynamically balanced and passes this performance test.
(3)
Runway side rails.
Swimming pool slide runways shall have permanent runway side rails of at least 2 inches (5.08 cm) and height to prevent lateral discharge of the slider off the slide under intended use and reasonably foreseeable abuse.
(4)
Runway side-rail heights.
Runway side-rail heights shall be designed as a function of the maximum slide-slope angle (as shown in figure H). Table 2 that follows shows side-rail height versus maximum slide-slope angle. If the maximum slide-slope angle is not shown in table 2, the next higher side-rail height must be used. Maximum slide-slope angles shall not exceed 75°. (See figure H.)
EC03OC91.024
Table 2
ψ = Maximum slide-slope angle
Runway side-rail height inches (centimeters)
60°
2 (5.08)
60-70°
3 (7.62)
70-75°
3
1/2
(8.89)
EC03OC91.025
(5)
Slide geometry.
Swimming pool slide runways shall have a smooth transition section and have geometry such that the path of the center of gravity of the slider is not more than ±10° from the horizontal at the center of gravity's exit off the slide and such that the slider's angle of attack (α), shown in figure I and defined below, shall be at least + 15° when the slider's feet leave the slide. (See figure I.)
(i)
Performance tests.
Measurement of the 50th-percentile adult male (71±2 inches and 162±5 pounds, 180.34±5.08 cm and 73.5±2.3 kg)
1
slider's angle of attack shall be made using any of the following methods or their equivalent:
1
See reference (f) of § 1207.11 for full discussion.
(A) Motion picture cameras (36 frames per second or more).
(B) Still cameras with strobe lights and reflectors on the head and hip of the slider.
(C) Still cameras with rotating shutters and lights on the head and hip of the slider.
(D) Video tape recorder.
(ii) Measurements shall be made from the still water level as the horizontal. The path angle shall be determined by measuring the angle between a tangent to the path of the center of gravity (line X) and the horizontal taken through the center of gravity (line Y). At least five consecutive runs with the same subject shall be made in order that an average may be computed.
2
Angle of attack shall be taken as the angle between the slider's longitudinal axis (
Z
) and the tangent to the path of his center of gravity (
X
). The slider's longitudinal axis shall be located by the vertical line that passes through his center of gravity when he stands erect. The slider shall wear usual swimming attire. The angle-of-attack measurement shall be made after the
slider's feet have cleared the slide, the distance between the end of the slide and his feet being less than 8 inches (20.3 cm). The slider's descent must be headfirst, prone, belly-down, and with arms extended in front. Except when starting, the slider shall not augment the slide trip by forcibly reacting with the slide through the use of his hands, arms, feet and/or legs. The slider's starting reactions with the slide shall be only as strong as necessary to start him moving. If the average angle of attack measured and computed in the above manner is equal to or greater than + 15°, the slide passes this performance test.
2
Maximum measurement variation of ±15 percent.
EC03OC91.026
(6)
Runway exit lips.
All runway exit lips of swimming pool slides shall be smoothly faired into the runway surface with a radius of curvature at the exit lip of the slide of at least 2
1/4
inches (5.72 cm) (see figure J).
EC03OC91.027
(7)
Runway exit vertical angle.
The angle of the runway at exit of the slide () shall be −3 to −11 degrees from the horizontal as shown in figure J.
(8)(i)
Runway exit ramp lateral curvature and exit lip horizontal angle.
No net lateral forces on the slider shall exist in that portion of the runway exit ramp beyond the forward support points of the slide. All slides shall be designed and constructed so that the exit lip of the slide is level at all points along the width of the runway at the runway exit lip line drawn at the point where the lip curvature shown in figure J is tangent to the runway. The slide shall be designed so that any side forces on the user induced by prior lateral curvature will be reduced to zero upon exit from the slide runway.
(ii)
Performance tests.
Those tests described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section are also applicable to paragraph (f)(8) of this section, and the path of the test fixture must be parallel to the centerline of the slide at the exit lip (within 5°) and not touching the side rails of the runway.
(9)
Strength of slide runways and supports
—(i)
Static loads.
A properly assembled and installed slide runway shall be
capable of supporting a static load of at least 350 pounds (1,557 newtons) applied normal to the runway over an area of no more than 20 square inches (129.03 square cm) at any point along its length or width.
(ii)
Dynamic loading.
Properly assembled and installed slide runways shall be capable of supporting, without structural failure except as defined in paragraph (f)(9)(iii)(B)(
3
) of this section, a dynamic load of at least 450 foot-pounds (610.2 newton-meters) dropped on an area of 20 square inches (129.03 square cm) at the midpoints of the upper runway platform and the lower runway exit ramp.
(iii)
Performance tests
—(A)
Static loads.
Assemble and install a slide according to the manufacturer's instructions. Prepare a 20-square-inch (129.03 square cm) load-bearing pallet according to figure K. Place the loaded pallet on the upper slide platform, positioned between the runway rails, until the scale on the hoist line reads between 0 and 10 pounds (0 and 44.48 newtons). Keep the pallet in this position for 10 minutes. Remove the loaded pallet and observe the runway for any significant structural failure such as permanent deformations or cracks. If there are none, the slide passes the test. Repeat the same test on the lower runway exit ramp.
EC03OC91.028
(B)
Dynamic loads.
(
1
) Assemble and install a slide according to the manufacturer's instructions. Use the hardwood load pallet shown in figure K and set it up under dynamic load guides fabricated as shown in figure L, or an equivalent impact-testing machine.
EC03OC91.029
(
2
) Fabricate a 45-pound (20.4-kg) billet of 4.900±0.005-inch (12.45±.01 cm) steel rod as shown in figure M, or equivalent, and load into the pipe above the trigger slot. The length of the pipe from the trigger slot to the impact pallet shall be 10.0±0.1 feet (3.05 meters±3.05 cm).
EC03OC91.030
(
3
) Drop the billet onto the pallet and observe the slide for any permanent deformations or cracks. If the slide runway can still support a static load of 350 pounds (1,557 newtons) on the pallet without further crack propagation, it passes this test.
(
4
) Perform the test on the entrance and exit platforms of the slide runway.
[41 FR 2751, Jan. 19, 1976; 41 FR 9307, Mar. 4, 1976; 41 FR 10062, Mar. 9, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 12638, Mar. 26, 1976; 41 FR 13911, Apr. 1, 1976]
§§ 1207.6-1207.8
[Reserved]
§ 1207.9
Product certification.
(a) Certification shall be in accordance with section 14(a)(1) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2063(a)(1)).
(b) A certificate shall accompany the swimming pool slide (in the form of a permanent label on the shipping container(s) or in the form of a separate certificate) to all distributors and retailers to whom the material is delivered certifying that the slide conforms to this part 1207. The certificate or permanent label issued under this section shall be based upon either a test of each product or a reasonable testing program, shall state the name of the manufacturer or private labeler issuing the certificate, and shall include the date and place of manufacture.
(c) Any certificate shall be based upon the test procedures and requirements specified in this part 1207.
§ 1207.10
Handling, storage, and marking.
(a)
Marking.
The manufacturer's or private labeler's identification shall appear on the slide and shipping container. Such identification shall include the identity and address of the manufacturer or private labeler. If a private labeler's name is used, the marking shall include a code mark that will permit an identification of the manufacturer.
(b)
Shipping, handling, and storage.
The slide shall be designed, constructed, or packaged so that reasonably foreseeable shipping, handling, and storage will not cause defects in the slide that will prevent the slide from complying with the requirements of this part 1207.
§ 1207.11
References.
(a) “Statistical Abstract of the United States 1973,” U.S. Dept. of Commerce, pp. 181-185, 192.
(b) “Human Engineering Guide for Equipment Designers,” Woodson and Conover, pp. 2-166 through 2-169 published by the University of California Press, 2223 Fulton St., Berkeley, California 94720.
(c) “Human Engineering Guide to Equipment Design,” Van Cott and KinKade, published by U.S. Dept. of
Defense, 1972, Library of Congress Card No. 72-600054, pp. 457-465.
(d) “The Measure of Man—Human Factors in Design,” by Henry Dreyfuss, published by Watson-Guptill Publications, Inc., 1 Astor Plaza, New York, New York, 10036.
(e) “Medical Tribune”, Wed., 8/15/73, p. 21.
(f) “Technical Rationale in Support of A Safety Standard for Swimming Pool Slides,” 5/30/75. National Swimming Pool Institute, 2000 K Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20006.
§ 1207.12
Stockpiling.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1)
Stockpiling
means manufacturing or importing swimming pool slides between the date of promulgation of part 1207 in the
Federal Register
and its effective date at a rate greater than five percent more than the rate at which the slides were manufactured or imported during the base period.
(2)
Base period
means, at the option of the manufacturer or importer concerned, any period of 180 consecutive days beginning on or after January 2, 1974, and ending on or before December 31, 1974.
(3)
Rate of production (or importation)
means the total number of swimming pool slides manufactured (or imported) during a stated time period. In determining whether a slide was manufactured (or imported) during a stated time period, the later of the date on which the slide runway was manufactured (or imported) or the date on which the accompanying ladder and other support parts were manufactured (or imported) shall be used.
(b)
Prohibited acts.
Manufacturers and importers of swimming pool slides, as these products are defined in § 1207.3(a)(28) shall not manufacture or import slides that do not comply with the requirements of this part 1207 between January 19, 1976, and July 17, 1976, at a rate which is greater than the rate of production or importation during the base period plus five percent of that rate.
(c) Manufacturers and importers shall maintain appropriate documentation to be able to substantiate to the Commission that they are in compliance with the provisions of this section.
[41 FR 2751, Jan. 19, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 15003, Apr. 9, 1976]
Pt. 1209

# PART 1209—INTERIM SAFETY STANDARD FOR CELLULOSE INSULATION

# Subpart A—The Standard
Sec.
1209.1
Scope and application.
1209.2
Definitions and measurements.
1209.3
General requirements.
1209.4
Test procedures for determining settled density.
1209.5
Test procedures for corrosiveness.
1209.6
Test procedures for critical radiant flux.
1209.7
Test procedures for smoldering combustion.
1209.8
Procedure for calibration of radiation instrumentation.
1209.9
Labeling requirement.
1209.10
Certification and enforcement.
1209.11
Effective date.
Figure 1 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Partial Insulation Preparation Apparatus
Figure 2 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Cyclone Receiver Weldment
Figure 3 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Flooring Radiant Tester Schematic Side Elevation
Figure 4 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Flooring Radiant Panel Tester Schematic Low Flux End, Elevation
Figure 5 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Zero Reference Point Related to Detecting Plane
Figure 6 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Dummy Specimen in Specimen Holder
Figure 7 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Specimen Tray
Figure 8 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Standard Radiant Heat Energy Flux Profile
Figure 9 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Flux Profile Data Log Format
Figure 10 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Insulation Radiant Panel Test Data Log Format

# Subpart B—Certification
1209.31
Purpose and applicability.
1209.32
Definitions.
1209.33
Reasonable testing program.
1209.34
Qualification testing.
1209.35
Product specification.
1209.36
Production testing.
1209.37
Corrective actions.
1209.38
Records.
1209.39
Certification of compliance.
1209.40
Certification responsibility, multiple parties.
1209.41
Effective date.

# Source:
44 FR 39966, July 6, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—The Standard

# Authority:
Sec. 35(c)(2), Pub. L. 95-319, 92 Stat. 388-389 (15 U.S.C. 2082).
§ 1209.1
Scope and application.
(a)
Scope.
This part 1209, an interim consumer product safety standard, prescribes flame resistance and corrosiveness requirements for cellulose insulation that is a consumer product. These requirements are intended to reduce or eliminate an unreasonable risk of injury to consumers from flammable and corrosive cellulose insulation. The requirements are based upon the flame resistance and corrosiveness requirements of General Services Administration Specification HH-I-515D.
(b)
Application.
This part 1209 shall apply to cellulose insulation that is a consumer product, that is, cellulose insulation produced or distributed for sale to, or for the personal use, consumption, or enjoyment of consumers in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation, or otherwise. The interim standard applies to cellulose insulation that is produced or distributed for sale to consumers for their direct installation or use, as well as cellulose insulation that is produced or distributed for installation by professionals. This part 1209 applies only to cellulose insulation manufactured after October 15, 1979.
§ 1209.2
Definitions and measurements.
(a) As used in this part 1209,
Cellulose insulation
means cellulosic fiber, loose fill, thermal insulation that is suitable for blowing or pouring applications.
(b) The definitions given in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act are applicable to this part 1209.
(c) For the purposes of conformance with the technical requirements of this standard, the figures are given in the metric system of measurement. The inch-pound system approximations of these figures are provided in parentheses for convenience and information only. For numerical quantities for which no specific tolerances are given, the tolerance shall be one half of the unit value of the last significant digit given in the dimension. Where numerical quantities are given without tolerances in both the metric and inch-pound system of measurements, the tolerance shall be one half of the last significant digit of the metric equivalent of the numerical quantity.
(d) The specifications and dimensions in the test methods below are given in metric units, with the English equivalents in parentheses. For enforcement purposes the Commission will use metric units.
§ 1209.3
General requirements.
(a) All cellulose insulation to which this interim standard applies, as described in § 1209.1, shall be noncorrosive when tested in accordance with the test procedures at § 1209.5 and evaluated using the criteria at § 1209.5(c). This means that after the product is tested, the six metal coupons used in the test shall not have any perforations (excluding notches extending into the coupon 3 mm or less from any edge) when the coupons are observed over a 40-W appliance light bulb.
(b) All cellulose insulation to which this interim standard applies, as described in § 1209.1, shall have a critical radiant flux equal to or greater than 0.12 W/cm
2
for each of the three specimens when tested in accordance with the test procedures at § 1209.6.
(c) All cellulose insulation to which this interim standard applies, as described in § 1209.1, shall have no evidence of flaming combustion and shall also have weight loss of 15 percent or less of the initial weight, for each of the three specimens, when tested in accordance with the test procedures at § 1209.7.
(d) All containers of cellulose insulation to which this interim standard applies, as described in § 1209.1, shall have a labeling statement in accordance with the labeling requirements at § 1209.9.
§ 1209.4
Test procedures for determining settled density.
The settled density of lose fill insulation must be determined before the
corrosiveness test (§ 1209.5) and the smoldering combustion test (§ 1209.7) can be performed. This section describes the procedure for determining the settled density of loose fill insulation.
(a)
Apparatus and materials.
(1) An insulation specimen container with a flat bottom and an inside diameter of 15.0±1 cm, straight sides [without a flared lip or spout, (Apparatus #1)]. The height of the beaker shall be such that the distance between the bottom of the cyclone and the top edge of the beaker is 8.5 cm±1.0 cm. (3.39 in±.39 in).
(2) A flat-rigid disc with a total weight of 75±5 g (2.65±0.18 oz) and of a suitable diameter to fit loosely into the specimen container. Weight may be added to the center of the disc to bring the total weight to the required 75±5 g (Apparatus #2).
(3) A balance of 2 kg (4.4 lbs) capacity accurate at least to 0.2 g (0.007 oz) (Apparatus #3).
(4) Blower apparatus, two units (supply and overflow) meeting the following specifications: (The Commission staff has found that a Breuer Electric Manufacturing Co., Model 98805 blower is suitable for this purpose, although other blowers may be suitable.) (Apparatus #4).
(i) Each blower apparatus shall be capable of blowing an average of 272.2 kg (600 lbs.) of insulation per hour.
(ii) Each blower apparatus shall have a nominal air flow of 2.1 cm
3
/min. (75 ft
3
/min.)
(iii) Each blower apparatus shall have a nominal motor speed of 16,450 revolutions per minute at 115 VAC.
(5) A shaker unit capable of shaking 4.5 kg (10 lb) of weight with a vertical motion of 0.5 g Root Mean Square (RMS) acceleration at an approximate frequency of 9 Hertz (Hz) and displacement of approximately 1.17 cm (
15/32
±
1/32
in.) ±.08 cm peak to peak. (The Commission staff has found that a Tyler Industries, Portable Sieve Shaker Model Rx-24 is suitable for this purpose, although other shakers may be suitable.) (Apparatus #5).
(6) Fill chamber with inside dimensions of 45.7 cm (18 in) high × 38.1 cm (15 in) wide × 38.1 cm (15 in) deep, with covered openings that will allow a radiant panel tray to be slid through the chamber, (see Figure 1 for details) (Apparatus #6).
(7) A cyclone receiver (see Figure 2 for complete details). (Apparatus #7).
(8) Various lengths of nominally 2-inch diameter hose (see Figure 1 for details), as follows:
(i) A supply source hose, 274.3±5.1 cm (9 ft±2 in) (Apparatus #8(i)).
(ii) A cyclone receiver hose, 182.9±5.1 cm (6 ft±2 in) (Apparatus #8(ii)).
(iii) A fill chamber exit hose, 91,.4±5.1 cm (3 ft±2 in) (Apparatus #8(iii)).
(iv) An overflow exhaust hose, length as needed (Apparatus #8(iv)).
(9) Blower Control(s) capable of operating the two blowers at 40 volts RMS. As an example, a variac for each of the two blowers with sufficient rating to operate at 40 volts and 12 amperes RMS would be acceptable (Apparatus #9).
(10) An insulation holding container to hold a sufficient quantity of insulation to fill the specimen container four times.
(11) A garden rake, 50.8 cm (20 in) wide (Apparatus #11).
(12) A shovel (Apparatus #12).
(b)
Conditioning.
Specimens shall be conditioned to equilibrium at 21±5 °C (69.8±9 °F) and 50±5 % relative humidity. A less than 1% change in net weight of the specimen in two consecutive weighings with two hours between each weighing constitutes equilibrium.
(c)
Test specimen preparation
—(1)
Insulation intended for pneumatic applications.
If the insulation is intended for pneumatic applications, the test specimens shall be prepared in the following manner:
(i) If ambient laboratory conditions are different from the conditioning requirements specified in (b) above, begin testing the specimen for settled density within 10 minutes after it has been removed from the conditioned area.
(ii) Pour the conditioned insulation into the holding box (Apparatus #10) in sufficient quantity to fill the specimen container (Apparatus #1 shown in Figure 1) four times. Manually break up any large clumps of material that might cause feeding problems.
(2)
Insulation intended for pouring applications.
If the insulation is intended for pouring applications, the test specimens shall be prepared in the following manner:
(i) If ambient laboratory conditions are different from the conditioning requirements specified in (b) above, begin testing 10 minutes after it has been removed from the conditioned area.
(ii) Pour loose fill insulation into a simulated attic space until full. The attic space shall be formed by two nominal 2 × 6 (243 cm) (8 ft) long joists placed 40.6 cm (16 in) on center with 1.27 cm (
1/2
in) plywood nailed to the ends and bottom. Fluff the material with a garden rake (Apparatus #11), applying a series of small amplitude strokes while moving the rake slowly along the joist. Repeat the fluffing process six times.
(d)
Procedures
—(1)
Procedures for insulation intended for pneumatic applications.
If the insulation is intended for pneumatic applications, conduct the following procedures:
(i) The test shall be conducted in an area conditioned to the requirements of § 1209.4(b).
(ii) The apparatus shall be set up as shown in Figure 1. (Apparatus #9 and #10 are not shown in Figure 1, but are described at § 1209.4(a)). Connect one end of the supply source hose (Apparatus #8.i) to the intake of the supply blower (Apparatus #4). The other end will be used to pick up insulation from the holding container (Apparatus #10). Connect one end of the cyclone receiver hose (Apparatus #8.ii) to the outlet of the supply blower and the other end to the cyclone receiver (Apparatus #7). Connect one end of the fill chamber exit hose (Apparatus #8.iii) to the intake of the overflow blower (Apparatus #4) and the other end to the fill chamber (Apparatus #6). The fill chamber shall be placed on a flat and level surface. Connect one end of the variable length overflow exhaust hose (Apparatus #8.iv) to the outlet of the overflow blower. The other end should be conveniently placed to reduce insulation dust in the test area.
(iii) Weigh the empty insulation specimen container and record its weight.
(iv) Place the empty insulation specimen container in the fill chamber (Apparatus #6) centered under the cyclone receiver (Apparatus #7), and close the front cover.
(v) Adjust the blower control(s) (Apparatus #9) such that the supply and overflow blowers will operate at a no load voltage of 40 volts RMS.
(vi) Turn on the blowers simultaneously and proceed to fill the insulation specimen container by picking up material from the holding container using the supply source hose.
(vii) The container may fill unevenly, i.e. a void may tend to form off center in the container. If this occurs, stop the blowing process and rotate the container 180 degrees and continue the blowing process until the container just begins to overflow. If, for any reason, the filling process is interrupted for more than one minute or for more than the one time allowed to rotate the container, begin the process again.
(viii) Gently screed the excess material using a straight edge so as to leave a uniform surface of the insulation flush with the top of the container.
(ix) Weigh the filled and leveled container and record the weight. Take care not to bump or jar the container so as not to introduce any extraneous settling of the insulation.
(x) Cover the container to prevent spilling and secure the container to the shaker. Operate the shaker for a period of 5 minutes±15 seconds.
(xi) Remove the container from the shaker and uncover, taking care not to bump or jar it. Lower the disc (Apparatus #2) very slowly into the container until it starts to contact the insulation. At this point, release the disc and allow it to settle onto the insulation under its own weight.
(xii) Measure the volume of the space occupied by the settled insulation using the bottom edge of the disc as the upper datum point. If the disc is not level, measure the high and low points of the bottom of the disc and average the readings and use this as the height measurement in calculating the volume (V
s
). This settled insulation volume and insulation weight (w) shall be used to calculate the settled density.
(xiii) Repeat this procedure [steps (i through xi)] using another specimen of the insulation until four settled densities are obtained for a given material. Then average these figures to arrive at a final settled density.
(2)
Procedures for insulation intended for pouring applications.
If the insulation is intended for pouring applications, conduct the following procedures:
(i) Weigh the empty insulation specimen container and record its weight.
(ii) Using a shovel (Apparatus #12) remove insulation from the simulated attic space and place it into the specimen container until the container just begins to overflow.
(iii) Follow steps (vi) through (xii) as specified under
Procedures for insulation intended for pneumatic applications.
(iv) Repeat this procedure (steps (i) through (iii)) using another specimen of the insulation until four settled densities are obtained for a given material. Then average these figures to arrive at a final settled density.
(e)
Insulation intended for pouring and pneumatic applications.
If the insulation is intended for both pouring and pneumatic applications, or if it is uncertain whether the insulation will be poured or installed pneumatically, the insulation shall be tested for settled density using the test specimen preparation and test procedures at § 1209.4 (c) and (d) for each of the applications. The larger of the two settled density values shall be used in performing the corrosiveness test at § 1209.5 and the smoldering combustion test at § 1209.7.
(f)
Calculations.
Calculate the settled density of each specimen using the following formula:
Settled Density in kg/m
3
= W/V
s
, where
W = combined weight of the container and insulation in grams, minus the weight of the container in grams.
V
s
= volume of insulation in liters after shaking.
§ 1209.5
Test procedures for corrosiveness.
This section prescribes the procedures for determining the corrosiveness of cellulose insulation. Cellulose insulation shall be tested for corrosiveness using the measured settled density, obtained by following the test procedure at § 1209.4, to calculate the amount of distilled or deionized water to add to the test specimens. Determination of corrosiveness shall be in accordance with the following test procedure:
(a)
Apparatus and materials
—(1)
Humidity chamber.
A forced-air humidity chamber capable of maintaining 48.9±1.7 °C (120±3 °F) and 97 ±1.5 percent relative humidity.
(2)
Crystallizing dishes.
Six glass crystallizing dishes, 90 mm (3.54 in) diameter by 50 mm (1.9 in) height.
(3)
Test coupons.
(i) Two aluminum coupons. 3003 bare aluminum, zero temper.
(ii) Two copper coupons. ASTM B 152, type ETP, Cabra No. 110 soft copper.
(iii) Two steel coupons. Low carbon, commercial quality, cold rolled, less than 30 carbon content, shim steel.
Each coupon shall be 50.8 by 50.8 mm (2 by 2 in) by 0.076 mm (0.003 in) thick metal free of tears, punctures, or crimps.
(4) Test specimens: Six test specimens of insulation shall be used for one test. Each specimen shall weigh 20g (0.7 oz).
(b)
Procedure
—(1)
General procedures for cleaning all metal coupons.
The metal coupons shall be cleaned by the following method:
(i) At no time during the fabrication, cleaning or testing shall the metal coupons be touched by ungloved hands.
(ii) Gloves shall be clean and in good condition.
(iii) All chemicals used shall be of American Chemical Society reagent grade or better, free from oily residues and other contaminants.
(iv) Water shall be distilled or deionized water.
(v) Handle cleaned coupons only with clean forceps.
(vi) In order to avoid exposing laboratory personnel to toxic fumes, the commission recommends that all cleaning procedures be performed in a fume hood.
(vii) Clean the coupons by vapor degreasing with 1,1,1-trichloroethane for ten minutes. Following vapor degreasing, subject the coupons to caustic and/or detergent washing as appropriate. Following caustic or detergent washing, rinse the coupons in flowing water to remove residues. Inspect each coupon for a water-break free surface. (A water-break is a break, separation, beading or retraction of the water film as the coupon is held
vertically after wetting. As the coupons are cleaned, the water film should become gradually thinner at the top and heavier at the bottom.) Hot air dry the coupons at 105 °C (221 °F).
(2) Specimens of cellulose insulation submitted for testing shall be blown, combed, or otherwise mixed to reasonably assure homogeneity in the cellulose insulation test specimens.
(3) Before presaturating each 20g (0.7 oz) test specimen, subdivide it into two 10g (0.35 oz) portions. The quantity of distilled or deionized water to be used for each 10g (0.35 oz) portion shall be determined using the following formula:
ml distilled water = 46 / (settled density, Kg/m
3
) × 75
or
ml distilled water = 2.9 / (settled density, lb/ft
3
) × 75
(4) Presaturate each 10g (0.35 oz) portion with the determined amount of water. Place one presaturated 10g (0.35 oz) portion into a crystallizing dish, tamp level using the bottom of a clean suitably sized glass beaker. Place a metal coupon onto the presaturated insulation portion and center it in a horizontal plane. Place the other presaturated 10g (0.35 oz) portion into the crystallizing dish on the metal coupon and tamp the composite specimen (metal coupon plus saturated insulation in the crystallizing dish) to assure an even distribution of this material and to assure good contact of the insulation with the metal. Exercise care in preparing the composite specimens to eliminate air pockets from forming next to the metal coupons.
(5) Do not cover the crystallizing dish. (Care should be taken to avoid evaporation from the composite specimen while it is being prepared until it is placed in the humidity chamber.) If dripping occurs in the chamber, position a drip guard in the chamber to divert condensation to the chamber floor. Repeat the above for the other metal coupons. Place all six composite specimens into the humidity chamber. The chamber shall be preconditioned to 48.9 ±1.7 °C (120 ±3 °F) and 97 ±1.5 percent relative humidity. The specimens shall remain in the chamber for 336 ±4 hours. (Keep the chamber door open a minimum of time while placing composite specimens in and removing them from the chamber.)
(6) Upon completion of the test disassemble the composite specimens. Thoroughly wash the metal coupons under running water and lightly brush them using a soft nylon bristle brush or equivalent to remove loose corrosion products. Remove the remaining corrosion products from the metal coupons by cleaning them in accordance with the following practices:
1
1
These practices are the recommended practices in “ASTM G1—Standard Recommended Practice for Preparing, Cleaning, and Evaluating Corrosion Test Specimens,” published by American Society for Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 19103.
(i) Technique #1—Electrolytic Cleaning. This technique can be used for post-cleaning the tested copper, steel and aluminum coupons.
Description: Electrolyze the coupons as follows: Make a solution containing 28 ml of sulfuric acid (specific gravity 1.84), 2 ml of organic inhibitor, e.g. aobut 0.5 g/liter of such inhibitors as diorthotolyl thiourea, quinoline ethiodide, or betanaphthol quinoline may be used, and 970 ml of water. The solution shall be at 75 °C (167 °F). The anode shall be carbon or lead, and the cathode shall be one metal coupon. The electrolyzing shall run for 3 minutes at a current density of 20 A/dm
2
.
Caution:
If lead anodes are used, lead may deposit on the coupon. If the coupon is resistant to nitric acid, the lead may be removed by a flash dip in 1 + 1 nitric acid (plus water). To avoid injury in this and subsequent techniques when mixing acid and water, gradually pour the acid into the water with continuous stirring, provide cooling if necessary.
(ii) Technique #2—Copper. This technique or Technique #1 can be used for post-cleaning the tested copper coupons only.
Description: Make a solution containing 500 ml of hydrochloric acid (specific gravity 1.19), 100 ml of sulfuric acid (specific gravity 1.84), and 400 ml of water. To avoid injury, prepare the solution by slowly adding the sulfuric
acid to the water with continuous stirring. Cool, then add the hydrochloric acid slowly with continuous stirring. The solution shall be at room temperature. Dip the coupons in the solution for 1 to 3 minutes.
(iii) Technique #3—Steel. This technique or technique #1 can be used for post-cleaning the tested steel coupons only.
Description: Use one of the following two solutions:
Solution #1. Add 100 ml of sulfuric acid (specific gravity 1.84), 1.5 ml organic inhibitor, and water to make a l liter solution. The solution shall be 50 °C (120 °F). Dip the coupons in this solution.
Solution #2 (also referred to as Clarke's solution). Add 20 g of antimony trioxide and 50 g of stannous chloride to 1 liter of hydrochloric acid (specific gravity 1.19). The solution shall be stirred and be used at room temperature. Dip the coupons in this solution stirring the solution at a rate such that deformation of the coupons does not occur. This dipping shall last for up to 25 minutes.
(iv) Technique #4—Aluminum. This technique or technique #1 can be used for post-cleaning the tested aluminum coupons only.
Description: Make a 1 liter solution by adding 20g of chromic acid, and 50 ml of phosphoric acid (specific gravity 1.69), to water. The solution shall be 80 °C (176 °F). Dip the coupons in this solution for 5-10 minutes. If a film remains, dip the coupons in nitric acid (specific gravity 1.42) for 1 minute. Repeat the chromic acid dip. Nitric acid alone may be used if there are no deposits.
(7) After cleaning, examine the metal coupons over a 40-W appliance light bulb for perforation.
(c)
Noncorrosiveness.
Noncorrosiveness shall be determined by the absence of any perforations (excluding notches which extend into the coupon 3 mm or less from any edge) on each of the six test coupons when the coupons are observed over a 40-W appliance light bulb.
§ 1209.6
Test procedures for critical radiant flux.
This section provides the test procedure for determining the critical radiant flux of exposed attic floor insulation using a radiant heat energy source.
(a)
Apparatus and description of test procedure.
Test chamber (Figures 3 and 4 paragraph (b) of this section). An air-gas fueled radiant heat energy panel or equivalent panel inclined at 30° above and directed at a horizontally-mounted attic floor insulation specimen. The radiant panel generates a radiant energy flux distribution ranging along the approximately 100-cm length of the test specimen from a nominal maximum of 1.0 W/cm.
2
to a minimum of 0.1 W/cm
2
. The test is initiated by open flame ignition from a pilot burner. The distance burned to flame-out is converted to W/cm
2
from the flux profile graph (Figure 8) and reported as critical radiant flux, W/cm
2
. Section 1209.8 provides a procedure for calibrating the radiation pyrometer used to standardize the thermal output of the panel.
(b)
Construction and instrumentation of the radiant panel test chamber.
The radiant panel test chamber shall be constructed and instrumented as follows:
(1) The radiant panel test chamber employed for this test shall be located in a draft protected area maintained at 21±3 °C (69.8±9 °F) and relative humidity of 50±20%. The radiant panel test chamber, (Figures 3 and 4) shall consist of an enclosure 140 cm (55 in) long by 50 cm (19
1/2
in) deep by 71 cm (28 in) above the test specimen. The sides, ends, and top shall be of 1.3 cm nominal (
1/2
in) calcium silicate board, such as Marinite I, 0.74 g/cm
3
(46 lb/ft
3
) nominal density, with a thermal conductivity at 177 °C (350 °F) of 1.11 cal (g)/hr cm
2
°C/cm [0.89 Btu/(hr) (ft
2
) (°F/in)]. One side shall be provided with an approximately 10 cm × 110 cm (4 × 44 inches) draft tight fire resistant glass window so that the entire length of the test specimen may be observed from ourside the fire test chamber. On the same side and below the observation window is a door which, when open, allows the specimen platform to be moved out for mounting or removal of test specimens. A draft tight, fire resistant observation window may be installed at the low flux end of the chamber.
(2) The bottom of the test chamber shall consist of a sliding steel platform
which has provisions for rigidly securing the test specimen holder in a fixed and level position. The free, or air access, area around the platform shall be in the range of 1935-3225 cm
2
(300-500 square in). The top of the chamber shall have an exhaust stack with interior dimensions of 10.2 cm (4 in) wide by 38 cm (15 in) deep by 31.8 cm (12.5 in) high at the opposite end of the chamber from the radiant energy source. The radiant heat energy source shall be a panel of porous refractory material mounted in a cast iron frame, with a radiation surface of 30.5 × 45.7 cm nominal (12 by 18 in). The panel fuel system shall consist of a venturi-type aspirator or equivalent system for mixing gas and air at approximately atmospheric pressure, a clean dry air supply capable of providing 28.3 NTP (Normal Temperature and Pressure m
3
per hr (1000 standard cubic feet per hour) at 7.6 cm (3.0 in) of water, and suitable instrumentation for monitoring and controlling the flow of fuel to the panel.
(3) The radiant heat energy panel shall be mounted in the chamber 30±0.5° to the horizontal specimen plane. The horizontal distance from the 0 mark on the specimen fixture to the bottom edge (projected) of the radiating surface of the panel is 8.9 cm±0.1 (3
1/2
±
1/32
in). The panel to specimen vertical distance is 14.0 cm±0.1 (5
1/2
±
1/32
in) (see Figure 5). The angle and dimensions given above are critical in order to obtain the required radiant flux. The radiation pyrometer for standardizing the thermal output of the panel shall be suitable for viewing a circular area 25.0 cm (10 in) in diameter at a range of about 1.37 m (54 in). It shall be calibrated over the black body temperature range of 490-510 °C (914-950 °F) in accordance with the procedure described in § 1209.8. A high impedance voltmeter with a suitable millivolt range shall be used to monitor the output of the radiation pyrometer described. The dummy holder (see Figure 6), shall be constructed from 14 gauge heat-resistant stainless steel (AISI Type 300 (UNA-N08330)) or equivalent thickness 0.198 cm (0.078 in), having overall dimension of 114 cm (45 in) by 32 cm (12
3/4
in) with a specimen opening of 20 cm (7.9 inches) by 100 cm (39.4 in). Six slots are cut in the flange on either side of the holder to reduce warping. The holder is fastened to the platform with two stud bolts at each end.
(4) The specimen tray (see Figure 7) shall be constructed from 14 gauge heat-resistant stainless steel (AISI Type 300 (UNA-N08330)) or equivalent, thickness 0.198 cm (0.078 in). The depth of the tray is 5.0±0.2 cm (2±
5/64
in). The flanges of the specimen tray are drilled to accommodate two stud bolts at each end; the bottom surface of the flange is 2.1±0.1 cm (0.83±0.04 in) below the top edge of the specimen tray. The overall dimensions of the tray and the width of the flanges are not critical and should be chosen so that the tray essentially fills the open space in the sliding platform. Tray must be adequate to contain a specimen at least 100 cm long and 25 cm wide. It is important to note that the zero reference point on the dummy specimen coincides with the pilot burner flame impingement point (see Figure 5).
(5) The pilot burner used to ignite the specimen shall be a propane venturi torch with an axially sysmmetric burner tip having a propane supply tube with an orifice diameter of 0.0076±0.0013 cm (0.003±0.0005 in). In operation, the propane flow is adjusted to give a pencil flame blue inner cone length of 1.3 cm (
1/2
in). The pilot burner is positioned so that the flame generated will impinge on the centerline of the specimen at the zero reference point and at right angles to the specimen length (see Figures 3 and 4). The burner shall be capable of being swung out of the ignition position so that the flame is horizontal and at least 5 cm (2 in) above the specimen plane.
(6) Two 3.2 mm nominal (
1/8
in) diameter stainless steel sheathed, grounded junction chromel alumel thermocouples are located in the flooring radiant panel test chamber (see Figures 3 and 4). Thermocouples shall be kept clean to ensure accuracy of readout. The chamber thermocouple is located in the longitudinal central vertical plane of the chamber 2.5 cm±0.1 (1±
1/32
in) down from the top and 10.2 cm±0.1 (4 in±
1/32
) back from the inside of the exhaust stack. The exhaust stack thermocouple is centrally located 15.2±0.1 cm (6±
1/32
in) from the top. A temperature indicating device with a
range of 100-500 °C (212-932 °F) may be used to determine the chamber temperatures prior to a test.
(7) An exhaust duct with a capacity of 28.3-85 NTP m
3
per minute (1000-3000 standard cubic feet per minute) decoupled from the chamber stack by at least 7.6 cm (3 in) on all sides and with an effective area of the canopy slightly larger than the plane area of the chamber with the specimen platform in the out position shall be used to remove combustion products from the chamber. With the panel turned on and dummy specimen in place, there shall be no measurable difference in air flow through the chamber stack with the exhaust on or off.
(8) The dummy specimen which is used in the flux profile determination shall be made of 1.9±0.1 cm (
3/4
±
1/32
in) 0.74 g/cm
3
(46 lb/ft
3
) nominal density calcium silicate board, such as Marinite I (see Figure 6). It is 25 cm (10 in) wide by 107 cm (42 in) long with 2.7±0.1 cm (1
1/16
±
1/32
in) diameter holes centered on and along the centerline at the 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 cm locations (within ±0.1 cm), measured from the zero reference point at the maximum flux end of the specimen. The total heat flux transducer used to determine the flux profile of the chamber in conjunction with the dummy specimen should be of the Schmidt-Boelter type, having a range of 0-1.5 W/cm
2
(0-1.32 Btu/ft
2
s), and shall be calibrated over the operating flux level range of .10 to 1.5 W/cm
2
in accordance with the procedure outlined in § 1209.8. The incoming cooling water flowing through the instrument shall be 15-25 °C (59-77 °F). A high impedance voltmeter with a resolution of at least 0.01 mV shall be used to measure the output of the total heat flux transducer during the flux profile determination. A timer shall be used for measuring preheat and pilot contact time.
(c)
Safety procedures.
The possibility of a gas-air fuel explosion in the test chamber should be recognized. Suitable safeguards consistent with sound engineering practice should be installed in the panel fuel supply system. These may include one or more of the following:
(1) A gas feed cut-off activated when the air supply fails,
(2) A fire sensor directed at the panel surface that stops fuel flow when the panel flame goes out,
(3) A commercial gas water heater or gas-fired furnace pilot burner control thermostatic shut-off, which is activated when the gas supply fails, or other suitable and approved device.
Manual reset is considered a desirable feature of any safeguard system used. In view of the potential hazard from products of combustion, the exhaust system must be so designed and operated that the laboratory environment is protected from smoke and gas. The operator should be instructed to minimize exposure to combustion products by following sound safety practices, such as ensuring that the exhaust system is working properly and wearing appropriate clothing, including gloves.
(d)
Test specimens
—(1)
Specimens of insulation intended for pneumatic applications.
(i) Insulation shall be installed into the specimen tray using the blower/cyclone apparatus described in § 1209.4(a).
(ii) Insulation shall be conditioned as described in § 1209.4(b).
(iii) Apparatus #4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 shall be used as described in § 1209.4(d)(1)(i) with the following additional requirements.
(iv) The fill chamber (apparatus #6) shall be equipped with openings in the front and back so that a radiant panel specimen tray can be slid through the fill chamber.
(v) Adjust the blower control(s) (apparatus #9) such that the supply and overflow blowers will operate at a no load voltage of 40 volts RMS.
(vi) Turn on the blowers simultaneously and proceed to fill the fill chamber by picking up material from the box using the supply source hose. Large clumps of insulation shall be broken by hand before feeding them into the hose. Continue filling the chamber until large amounts of insulation are being drawn into the overflow hose.
(vii) Slowly slide the specimen tray through the fill chamber so that the low flux end of the tray is parallel with the back of the fill chamber filling the tray by sliding the tray forward to
allow an excess of insulation to build up in the tray.
(viii) Shut off the blowers and remove the specimen tray and gently screed the insulation so that the insulation is level across the top of the tray. Take care not to compact the insulation or to leave large voids in the material. The tray may now be inserted into the radiant panel.
(2)
Specimens of insulation intended for pouring applications.
Insulation intended for pouring applications shall be poured into the tray until the tray is overfilled and then carefully screeded to the top of the tray taking care not to compact the insulation or leave large voids in the surface of the material.
(3)
Specimens of insulation intended for pouring and pneumatic applications.
If the insulation is intended for both pouring and pneumatic applications, or if it is uncertain whether the insulation will be poured or blown, the insulation shall be tested using the test procedures at paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section for each of the applications. Three specimens shall be tested under the test procedure for each application. All of the specimens shall meet the criteria at § 1209.3(b) for passing the attic floor radiant panel test.
(e)
Radiant heat energy flux profile standardization.
In a continuing program of tests, determine the flux profile at least once a week. Where the time interval between tests is greater than one week, determine the flux profile at the start of the test series.
(1) Mount the dummy specimen in the mounting frame and attach the assembly to the sliding platform. With the sliding platform out of the chamber, ignite the radiant panel. Allow the unit to heat for 1 hour. The pilot burner is off during this determination. Adjust the fuel mixture to give an air-rich flame. Make fuel flow settings to bring the panel to an apparent black body temperature as measured by the radiation pyrometer, of approximately 500 °C (932 °F), and bring the chamber to a temperature of approximately 180 °C (356 °F). When equilibrium has been established, move the specimen platform into the chamber. Allow 0.5 hour for the closed chamber to reach equilibrium.
(2) Measure the radiant heat energy flux level at the 40 cm point with the total flux meter instrumentation. This is done by inserting the flux meter in the opening so that its detecting plane is 0.16-0.32 cm (
1/16
-
1/8
inch) above and parallel to the plane of the dummy specimen and reading its output after 30±10 seconds. If the level is within the limits specified, the flux profile determination is started. If it is not, make the necessary adjustments in the panel fuel flow. A suggested flux profile data log format is shown in Figure 9.
(3) The test shall be run under chamber operating conditions which give a flux profile as shown in Figure 8. The radiant heat energy incident on the dummy specimen shall be between 0.87 and .95 W/cm
2
(0.77 and .83 Btu/ft
2
sec) at the 20 cm point, between 0.48 and 0.52 W/cm
2
(0.42 and 0.46 Btu/ft
2
sec) at the 40 cm point, and between 0.22 and 0.26 W/cm
2
(0.19 and 0.23 Btu/ft
2
sec) at the 60 cm point. Insert the flux meter in the 10 cm opening, following the procedure given above. Read the millivolt output at 30±10 seconds and proceed to the 20 cm point. Repeat the 10 cm procedure. The 30 to 90 cm flux levels are determined in the same manner. Following the 90 cm measurement, make a check reading at 40 cm. If this is within the limits set forth, the test chamber is in calibration, and the profile determination is completed. If not, carefully adjust fuel flow, allow 0.5 hour for equilibrium and repeat the procedure. Plot the radiant heat energy flux data as a function of distance along the specimen plane on rectangular coordinate graph paper. Carefully draw the best smooth curve through the data points. This curve will hereafter be referred to as the flux profile curve.
(4) Determine the open chamber apparent black body and chamber temperatures that are identified with the standard flux profile by opening the door and moving the specimen platform out. Allow 0.5 hour for the chamber to reach equilibrium. Read the radiation pyrometer output and record the apparent black body temperature. This is the temperature setting that can be used in subsequent test work in lieu of measuring the radiant flux at 20 cm, 40 cm, and 60 cm using the dummy specimen. The chamber temperature
also shall be determined again after 0.5 hour and is an added check on operating conditions.
(f)
Conditioning.
Test specimens shall be conditioned to equilibrium at 21±3 °C (69.8±5.4 °F) and a relative humidity of 50±5 percent immediately prior to testing. A less than 1% change in net weight of the specimen in two consecutive weighings with two hours between each weighing constitutes equilibrium. The maximum cumulative time a conditioned sample may be exposed to conditions different from 21±3 °C (69.8±5.4 °F) and relative humidity of 50±5% before insertion in to the radiant panel chamber for testing is 10 minutes.
(g)
Test Procedure.
(1) With the sliding platform out of the chamber, ignite the radiant panel. Allow the unit to heat for 1 hour. It is recommended that a sheet of inorganic millboard be used to cover the opening when the hinged portion of the front panel is open and the specimen platform is moved out of the chamber. The millboard is used to prevent heating of the specimen and to protect the operator. Read the panel apparent black body temperature and the chamber temperature. When these temperatures are in agreement to within ±5 °C (±9 °F) with those determined previously, during the flux profile standardization procedure, the chamber is ready for use.
(2) Mount the specimen tray with insulation on the sliding platform and position with stud bolts (see Figure 9). Ignite the pilot burner, move the specimen into the chamber, and close the door. Start the timer. After 2 minutes ±5 seconds preheat, with the pilot burner on and set so that the flame is horizontal and about 5 cm above the specimen, bring the pilot burner flame into contact with the center of the specimen at the 0 mark. Leave the pilot burner flame in contact with the specimen for 2 minutes ±5 seconds, or until all flaming other than in the area of the pilot burner has ceased, then remove to a position of at least 5 cm above the specimen and leave burning until the test is terminated.
(3) If the specimen does not ignite within 2 minutes following pilot burner flame application, the test is terminated by extinguishing the pilot burner flame. For specimens that do ignite, the test is continued until the flame goes out. When the test is completed, the door is opened, and the specimen platform is pulled out.
(4) Measure the distance burned, (the point of farthest advance of the flame front) to the nearest 0.1 cm (.03 in). From the flux profile curve, convert the distance to W/cm
2
(Btu/ft2sec) critical radiant heat flux at flame out. Read to two significant figures. A suggested data log format is shown in Figure 10.
(5) Remove the specimen tray from the moveable platform. The succeeding test can begin as soon as the panel apparent black body temperature and chamber temperature are verified. The specimen tray should be at room temperature before the next specimen is inserted.
§ 1209.7
Test procedures for smoldering combustion.
This section provides the test method for determining smoldering combustion characteristics of materials used for thermal insulation. This test shall be conducted on materials at the measured settled density as provided in § 1209.4.
(a)
Apparatus.
(1) The specimen holder shall be an open-top 20±0.2 cm (7.87±.08 in) square box, 10±0.2 cm (3.94±.08 in) in height, fabricated from a single piece of 0.61±0.08 mm thick (24 U.S. Standard gauge) stainless steel sheet with the vertical edges of the box overlapped, not to exeed 7 mm (.28 in) in seam width, and soldered so as to be watertight. A removable extension top extending 8±.5 cm. above the top of the smolder box shall also be provided. The specimen holder during test use shall rest upon a pad of unfaced glass fiberboard or equivalent having dimensions equal to or greater than those of the bottom of the specimen holder. The unfaced glass fiberboard shall be approximately 2.5 cm (1 in) thick with a thermal conductivity of 0.30±0.05 cal(g)/hr cm
2
°C/cm (0.24±0.04 Btu/hr ft
2
°F/in) at 23.9 °C (75 °F).
(2)
Ignition source.
The ignition source shall be a cigarette without filter tip made from natural tobacco, 85±2 mm (3.35±.08 in) long with a tobacco packing density of 0.270±0.020 g/cm
3
(16.9±1.25 lb/ft
3
) and a total weight of 1.1±0.1 gm (0.039±0.004 oz).
(3)
Balance.
A balance of 1 kg (2.2 lb) capacity, accurate at least to 0.1 g (0.004 oz), is required.
(4)
Test area.
The test area shall be draft-protected and equipped with a suitable system for exhausting smoke and/or noxious gases produced by testing. Air velocities as measured by a hot wire anemometer in the vicinity of the surface of the specimen shall not exceed 0.5 m/sec (1.64 ft/sec). The test area shall be at 21±3 °C (69.8±5.4 °F) and 50±5 percent relative humidity at the time the test begins.
(b)
Test procedure.
(1) Specimens and cigarettes shall be conditioned in air at a temperature of 21±3 °C (69.8±5.4 °F) and a relative humidity of 50±5 percent to equilibrium prior to test. A change of less than 1% in net weight of the specimen in two consecutive weighings with two hours between each weighing constitutes equilibrium. Cigarettes shall be removed from any packaging and exposed in a suitable manner to permit free movement of air around them during conditioning. Calculate the weight of material necessary to fill the holder (volume 4,000 cm
3
or 0.14 ft
3
) at the settled density as determined in § 1209.4(e). The material shall be blown, combed, or otherwise mixed to remove lumps and shall be loaded uniformly into each specimen holder, level and flush to the top of the holder. The weight of each specimen shall be measured to the nearest 0.2 g (0.007 oz) or less by weighing the holder before and after filling. If the weight of the specimen is less than that calculated, a removable extension top shall be placed on top of the holder, the necessary amount of insulation is placed inside the extension and the loaded holder shall be dropped from a height no greater than 7.6 cm. (3 in) onto a hard flat surface. This process shall be repeated until the calculated weight of material completely fills the holder. The extension top is then removed. With the specimen in the holder and placed on the insulated pad, a rod of 8 mm (.31 in) diameter with a pointed end shall be inserted vertically into the approximate center of the material being tested and withdrawn to form an appropriate cavity for the ignition source, such that the cigarette fits snugly and maintains uniform contact with the specimen. A well lit cigarette, burned not more than 8 mm (0.31 in), shall be inserted in the formed cavity, with the lit end upward and flush with the specimen surface. Burning of the cigarette and specimen shall be allowed to proceed undisturbed in the test area for at least 2 hours or until the smoldering is no longer progressing, whichever period is longer.
(2) After completion of burning and after the holder has cooled down to approximately room temperature, the specimen holder with its material residue shall be weighed, at least to the nearest 0.1 g (0.003 oz), and the percent weight loss of the original specimen calculated. The weight of the cigarette residue is ignored in this calculation. (That is, the weight of the cigarette residue is not subtracted from the net weight of the specimen holder's contends at the conclusion of the test.)
(3) Three specimens per sample shall be tested.
§ 1209.8
Procedure for calibration of radiation instrumentation.
This procedure is used to calibrate the radiation instruments used in the test procedures for measuring critical radiant flux.
(a)
Radition pyrometer.
Calibrate the radiation pyrometer by means of a conventional black body enclosure placed within a furnace and maintained at uniform temperatures of 490, 500, and 510 °C (914, 932, and 950 °F). The black body enclosure may consist of a closed chromel metal cylinder with a small sight hole in one end. Sight the radiation pyrometer upon the opposite end of the cylinder where a thermocouple indicates the black body temperature. Place the thermocouple within a drilled hole and in good thermal contact with the black body. When the black body enclosure has reached the appropriate temperature equilibrium, read the output of the radiation pyrometer. Repeat for each temperature.
(b)
Total heat flux meter.
The total flux meter shall be calibrated by the National Bureau of Standards, (direct request for such calibration services to the: Radiometric Physics Division, 534, National Bureau of Standards (NBS),
Washington, DC 20234.), or, alternatively, its calibration shall be developed by transfer calibration methods with an NBS calibrated flux meter. This latter calibration shall make use of the radiant panel tester as the heat source. Measurements shall be made at each of the nine dummy specimen positions and the mean value of these results shall constitute the final calibration.
(c)
Recommendation.
It is recommended that each laboratory maintain a dedicated calibrated reference flux meter against which one or more working flux meters can be compared as needed. The working flux meters should be calibrated according to this procedure at least once per year.
§ 1209.9
Labeling requirement.
(a) Manufacturers, importers, and private labelers of cellulose insulation shall place on all containers of cellulose insulation the following statement:
This product meets the amended CPSC standard for flame resistance and corrosiveness of cellulose insulation.
To meet this requirement manufacturers, importers, and private labelers may use any type of label, including one which is pressure sensitive or glued on, provided the label is made in such a manner that it will remain attached to the container for the expected time interval between the manufacture of the product and its installation.
(b) This label shall appear prominently and conspicuously on the container in letters which are at least one-fourth inch in height. The labeling statement shall be printed with legible type in a color which contrasts with the background on which the statement is printed.
§ 1209.10
Certification and enforcement.
(a) While this part 1209 prescribes test methods to determine whether cellulose insulation subject to this interim standard meets its requirements, the interim standard itself does not require that a manufacturer or private labeler test any cellulose insulation. However, section 14 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2063) requires manufacturers and private labelers of products subject to safety standards to certify that the product conforms to the standard based on either a test of each product or a reasonable testing program. (Elsewhere in this issue of the
Federal Register,
44 FR 39983, the Commission has issued a certification rule that prescribes requirements that manufacturers and private labelers shall follow to certify that their cellulose insulation complies with the requirements of the amended standard.)
(b) The Commission intends to use the test procedures set forth in this part 1209 to determine whether insulation subject to the interim standard meets the requirements of the interim standard.
§ 1209.11
Effective date.
All cellulose insulation that is a consumer product and that is manufactured after October 15, 1979 shall meet the requirements of this standard, including the labeling requirement of § 1209.9.
Pt. 1209, Subpt. A, Fig. 1

# Figure 1 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Partial Insulation Preparation Apparatus
EC03OC91.031
Pt. 1209, Subpt. A, Fig. 2

# Figure 2 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Cyclone Receiver Weldment
EC03OC91.032
Pt. 1209, Subpt. A, Fig. 3

# Figure 3 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Flooring Radiant Tester Schematic Side Elevation
EC03OC91.033
Pt. 1209, Subpt. A, Fig. 4

# Figure 4 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Flooring Radiant Panel Tester Schematic Low Flux End, Elevation
EC03OC91.034
Pt. 1209, Subpt. A, Fig. 5

# Figure 5 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Zero Reference Point Related to Detecting Plane
EC03OC91.035
Pt. 1209, Subpt. A, Fig. 6

# Figure 6 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Dummy Specimen in Specimen Holder
EC03OC91.036
Pt. 1209, Subpt. A, Fig. 7

# Figure 7 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Specimen Tray
EC03OC91.037
Pt. 1209, Subpt. A, Fig. 8

# Figure 8 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Standard Radiant Heat Energy Flux Profile
EC03OC91.038
Pt. 1209, Subpt. A, Fig. 9

# Figure 9 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Flux Profile Data Log Format
EC03OC91.039
Pt. 1209, Subpt. A, Fig. 10

# Figure 10 to Subpart A of Part 1209—Insulation Radiant Panel Test Data Log Format
EC03OC91.040

# Subpart B—Certification

# Authority:
Secs. 14, 16; 86 Stat. 1220, 1222; (15 U.S.C. 2063, 2065).
§ 1209.31
Purpose and applicability.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart B of part 1209 is to establish requirements that manufacturers, importers, and private labelers must follow to certify that their products comply with the Amended Interim Standard for Cellulose Insulation (16 CFR part 1209, subpart A). This subpart B includes requirements for conducting a reasonable testing program, certifying with labels and separate certificates, and recordkeeping.
(b)
Applicability.
(1) Cellulose insulation which is subject to the standard includes all cellulose insulation, manufactured after the effective date (as described in § 1209.41), produced or distributed for sale to, or for the personal use, consumption, or enjoyment of, consumers in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation or otherwise. The standard applies to cellulose insulation
that is produced or distributed for sale to consumers, for their direct installation or use, as well as cellulose insulation that is produced or distributed for installation by professionals.
(2) The term
cellulose insulation
is defined in § 1209.2(a) of the standard to mean cellulosic fiber, loose fill, thermal insulation that is suitable for blowing or pouring applications.
§ 1209.32
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions set forth in section 3 of the act and in § 1209.2 of the standard, the following definitions shall apply to this subpart:
Private labeler
means an owner of a brand or trademark which is used on the label of cellulose insulation subject to the standard which bears a private label as defined in section 3(a)(7) of the act (15 U.S.C. 2052(a)(7)).
Production interval
means a time span determined by the manufacturer, private labeler, or importer to be appropriate for conducting a test or series of tests on samples of the cellulose insulation being produced to demonstrate that the product meets the requirements of the standard. An appropriate production interval may vary from test to test. The time period for a production interval shall be short enough to ensure that if the samples selected for testing comply with the standard or a portion of the standard, the insulation produced during the period will meet the standard or the appropriate portion of the standard.
§ 1209.33
Reasonable testing program.
(a)
General.
Section 14(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2063(a)) requires each manufacturer, importer, or private labeler of a product which is subject to a consumer product safety standard to issue a certificate of compliance with the applicable standard and to base that certificate upon a test of each item or upon a reasonable testing program. Because it is not practical to test each item subject to the standard, a reasonable testing program shall be used to support certificates of compliance for cellulose insulation.
(b)
Requirements of testing program.
A reasonable testing program for cellulose insulation is one which demonstrates with reasonable certainty that insulation certified to comply with the standard will meet all requirements of the standard. Manufacturers, private labelers, and importers shall determine the types and frequency of testing for their own reasonable testing programs. A reasonable testing program may include either the tests prescribed by the standard, or any other reasonable test procedures. However, a reasonable testing program cannot consist of tests which the party issuing the certificate of compliance knows (or through the exercise of reasonable diligence should know) will pass or accept insulation which will yield failing results when subjected to any of the tests in the standard. All reasonable testing programs shall consist of four elements:
(1) Qualification tests which must be performed on samples of the manufacturer's cellulose insulation to demonstrate that the product is capable of passing the tests prescribed by the standard.
(2) A description of the cellulose insulation which passed the qualification testing. This description is known as the “product specification.”
(3) Production tests, which must be performed at appropriate production intervals as long as the cellulose insulation is being manufactured.
(4) Corrective action, which must be taken whenever samples of the cellulose insulation yield unacceptable or failing test results.
(c)
Commission testing.
The Commission will test for compliance with the standard by using the test procedures contained in the standard, and will base enforcement actions for violation of the standard on the results of such testing.
(d)
Testing by third parties.
At the option of the manufacturer, importer, or private labeler, some or all of the testing for the reasonable testing program may be performed by a commercial testing laboratory. However, the manufacturer, importer, or private labeler is responsible for ensuring that all testing used to support the certificate of compliance has been properly performed with passing or acceptable results and for maintaining all records of
such tests in accordance with § 1209.38 below.
§ 1209.34
Qualification testing.
(a)
Requirement.
Before any manufacturer, importer, or private labeler begins distribution in commerce of cellulose insulation which is subject to the standard, samples of the insulation shall be tested for compliance with the standard. Manufacturers, importers, and private labelers shall determine the types of tests for qualification testing.
(b)
Timing, Sampling.
Any or all of the qualification testing required by this § 1209.34 may be performed before the effective date of the standard. Manufacturers, private labelers, or importers may select samples for qualification testing of a product in any manner they desire.
§ 1209.35
Product specification.
(a)
Requirement.
Before any manufacturer, importer, or private labeler distributes in commerce cellulose insulation which is subject to the standard, it shall ensure that the insulation is described in a written product specification.
(b)
Contents of specification.
The product specification shall include the following information:
(1) A description of the equipment used to manufacture the insulation, including the model number and names of the equipment manufacturers, and details of any modification made to any item of equipment.
(2) A description of the cellulosic stock material used to manufacture the insulation, identifying the extent of impurities allowed.
(3) The formulation of the fire-retardant chemicals added, including their chemical constituents and their form (for example, granulated, powdered, or liquid); the amount of fire-retardant chemicals present in the finished insulation, expressed as a percentage of the total weight of chemicals and cellulosic stock; the average weight of chemicals per bag; and the name and address of each chemical supplier. Where the chemical composition or formula of a commercially pre-mixed fire retardant is not known to the insulation manufacturer, the pre-mixed fire retardant may be described simply by the name and address of the supplier and its brand or trade name.
(4) A description of the tests which were used to qualify the product as well as the dates of performance and results and actual values, where applicable, of the tests.
(5) Any other information necessary to describe the insulation.
(c)
Distribution in commerce.
After the qualification testing required by § 1209.34 has been completed with acceptable results and the product specification required by this § 1209.35 has been recorded, the cellulose insulation may be manufactured and distributed in commerce, subject to the provisions of § 1209.36.
(d)
New product.
Whenever a manufacturer, private labeler, or importer makes any change to any item of equipment, cellulosic stock material, or formulation of a fire-retardant chemical, or any other factor which is likely to affect the ability of the cellulose insulation to meet the standard, that change will result in a new cellulose insulation product, requiring the preparation of a new product specification. The new product must be subjected to qualification tests and must yield passing or acceptable results.
§ 1209.36
Production testing.
(a)
General.
Manufacturers, private labelers, and importers shall test the cellulose insulation periodically as it is manufactured to demonstrate that the product being manufactured is substantially similar to the product which passed the qualification testing and to demonstrate that the product being manufactured meets the requirements of the standard.
(b)
Types and frequency of testing.
Manufacturers, private labelers, and importers shall determine the types of tests for production testing. Each production test shall be conducted at a production interval short enough to ensure that if the samples selected for testing meet the standard or a portion of the standard, the insulation produced during the interval will also meet the standard or the appropriate portion of the standard.
(c)
Test failure.
If any test yields failing results, production must cease and
the faulty manufacturing process must be corrected (see § 1209.37). In addition, the material from which the samples were taken may not be distributed in commerce unless the material can be corrected (see § 1209.37) so as to yield passing results and meet the standard. Cellulose insulation that does not comply with the standard cannot be sold or offered for sale.
§ 1209.37
Corrective actions.
(a)
Test failure.
When any test required by § 1209.36 yields failing or unacceptable results, corrective action must be taken. Corrective action includes changes to the manufacturing process as well as reworking the insulation product itself. Corrective action may consist of equipment adjustment, equipment repair, equipment replacement, change in chemical formulation, change in chemical quantity, change in cellulosic stock, or other action deemed appropriate by the manufacturer, private labeler or importer to achieve passing or acceptable test results.
(b)
New product.
If any corrective action required by this § 1209.37 results in a change in the product specification and a new cellulose insulation product (see § 1209.34(b)), the product specification for the new product must be recorded in accordance with § 1209.35, and qualification tests must be performed with passing or acceptable results in accordance with § 1209.34, before the new product is distributed in commerce.
§ 1209.38
Records.
(a)
Establishment and maintenance.
Each manufacturer, importer, and private labeler of cellulose insulation subject to the standard shall establish and maintain the following records which shall be available to any designated officer or employee of the Commission upon request in accordance with section 16(b) of the act (15 U.S.C. 2965(b)):
(1) A record of each product specification containing all information required by § 1209.35. (This includes information concerning the types of qualification tests as well as the results from these tests.)
(2) Records to demonstrate compliance with the requirements for production testing in § 1209.36, including a description of the types of production tests conducted and the production interval selected for performance of each production test.
(3) Records of all corrective actions taken in accordance with § 1209.37, including the specific action taken, the date the action was taken, and the test failure which necessitated the action. Records of corrective action must relate the corrective action taken to the product specification of the insulation product which was the subject of that corrective action, and the product specification of any new product which results from any corrective action.
(4) Records indicating exactly which insulation material is covered by each certificate of compliance issued.
(b)
Retention
—(1)
Product specification.
The records of each product specification shall be retained for as long as the cellulose insulation covered by that specification is manufactured and for a period of two (2) years thereafter.
(2)
Other records.
Records of production testing, corrective actions taken, and certificates issued shall be maintained for a period of two (2) years.
(c)
Confidentiality.
Requests for confidentiality of records provided to the Commission will be handled in accordance with section 6(a)(2) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2055(a)(2)), the Freedom of Information Act as amended (5 U.S.C. 552), and the Commission's regulations under that act (16 CFR part 1015, February 22, 1977).
§ 1209.39
Certification of compliance.
(a)(1)
Responsibilities of manufacturer for insulation sold in bags.
Manufacturers of cellulose insulation subject to the standard which is sold in bags or other containers shall certify compliance with the standard by marking each bag or container with the following information:
(i) The statement “This product meets the amended CPSC standard for flame resistance and corrosiveness of cellulose insulation.” (This statement is the same statement provided in § 1209.9 of the standard; it need not appear twice on the bag or container.)
(ii) The name of the manufacturer, private labeler, or importer issuing the
certificate of compliance. See paragraphs (b) and (c), below.
(iii) The date of manufacture by day, month, and year.
(iv) The place of manufacture, by city, state, and zip code, or in the case of products manufactured outside the United States, by city and country.
The information required by this § 1209.39(a) may appear anywhere on the bag or container. The information required need not appear at the same place on the bag or container. The information shall be permanent until the bag or container is opened and used. The information shall be conspicuous and must appear in letters and figures at least
1/4
inch in height. The date and place of manufacture may be in code, provided the person or firm issuing the certificate maintains a written record of the meaning of the code that can be made available to consumers, persons in the chain of distribution, and the Commission upon request.
(2)
Insulation not sold in bags or containers.
The manufacturer of cellulose insulation subject to the standard which is not sold in bags or other containers shall certify compliance with the standard by accompanying each shipment or delivery of the product, with a document such as an invoice, bill, statement, or separate document, which states the following: “This product meets the amended CPSC standard for flame resistance and corrosiveness of cellulose insulation. This material was manufactured on (insert day, month, and year of manufacture) at (insert city, state, and zip code, or in the case of insulation manufactured outside the United States, city and country).” The certificate of compliance must also contain the name of the manufacturer, private labeler, or importer issuing the certificate. See paragraphs (b) and (c), below. The certificate of compliance must appear in letters and figures which are conspicuous and legible. The date and place of manufacture may be in code, provided the person or firm issuing the certificate maintains a written record of the meaning of the code that can be made available to consumers, persons in the chain of distribution, and the Commission upon request.
(b)
Responsibilities of private labelers.
A private labeler who distributes a product subject to the standard which is manufactured by another person or firm but which is sold under the private labeler's name, brand, or trademark must issue the certificate of compliance required by section 14 of the Consumer Product Safety Act and this section. If the testing required by this subpart has been performed by or for the manufacturer of the product, the private labeler may rely on any such tests to support the certificate of compliance if the records of such tests are maintained in accordance with § 1209.38, above. The private labeler is responsible for ensuring that all testing used to support the certificate of compliance has been performed properly with passing or acceptable results, and that all records of such tests are accurate and complete.
(c)
Responsibilities of importers.
The importer of any product subject to the standard must issue the certificate of compliance required by section 14(a) of the act and this § 1209.39. If the testing required by this subpart B of part 1209 has been performed by or for the foreign manufacturer of the product, the importer may rely on any such tests to support the certificate of compliance if the importer is a resident of the U.S. or has a resident agent in the U.S. and the records are maintained in the U.S. in accordance with § 1209.38 above. The importer is responsible for ensuring that all testing used to support the certificate of compliance has been performed properly with passing or acceptable results, and that all records of such tests are accurate and complete.
§ 1209.40
Certification responsibility, multiple parties.
If there is more than one party (i.e., manufacturer, private labeler, or importer) otherwise subject to the requirements of this subpart B of part 1209 for certain cellulose insulation, only the party closest to the consumer in the distribution chain is required to issue a certificate.
§ 1209.41
Effective date.
The requirements of this subpart B of part 1209 shall become effective on October 16, 1979. Any cellulose insulation
manufactured after October 15, 1979 must be certified as complying with the standard. Cellulose insulation which is sold in bags or other containers is “manufactured” when the insulation is packaged in the bag or other container in which it will be sold. Insulation which is not sold in bags or containers is “manufactured” when the insulation leaves the manufacturing site to be sold.
Pt. 1210

# PART 1210—SAFETY STANDARD FOR CIGARETTE LIGHTERS

# Subpart A—Requirements for Child Resistance
Sec.
1210.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
1210.2
Definitions.
1210.3
Requirements for cigarette lighters.
1210.4
Test protocol.
1210.5
Findings.

# Subpart B—Certification Requirements
1210.11
General.
1210.12
Certificate of compliance.
1210.13
Certification tests.
1210.14
Qualification testing.
1210.15
Specifications.
1210.16
Production testing.
1210.17
Recordkeeping and reporting.
1210.18
Refusal of importation.

# Subpart C—Stockpiling
1210.20
Stockpiling.

# Source:
58 FR 37584, July 12, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Requirements for Child Resistance

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056, 2058, 2079(d).
§ 1210.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
This part 1210, a consumer product safety standard, prescribes requirements for disposable and novelty lighters. These requirements are intended to make the lighters subject to the standard's provisions resistant to successful operation by children younger than 5 years of age. This standard applies to all disposable and novelty lighters, as defined in § 1210.2, that are manufactured or imported after July 12, 1994.
§ 1210.2
Definitions.
As used in this part 1210:
(a)
Cigarette lighter.
See
Lighter.
(b)
Disposable lighter
—means a lighter that either is:
(1) Not refillable with fuel or
(2)(i) Its fuel is butane, isobutane, propane, or other liquified hydrocarbon, or a mixture containing any of these, whose vapor pressure at 75 °F (24 °C) exceeds a gage pressure of 15 psi (103 kPa), and
(ii) It has a Customs Valuation or ex-factory price under $2.00, as adjusted every 5 years, to the nearest $0.25, in accordance with the percentage changes in the appropriate monthly Producer Price Index (Producer Price Index for Miscellaneous Fabricated Products) from June 1993. The adjusted figure, based on the change in that Index since June 1993, is $2.75.
(c)
Lighter,
also referred to as
cigarette lighter,
means a flame-producing product commonly used by consumers to ignite cigarettes, cigars, and pipes, although they may be used to ignite other materials. This term does not include matches or any other lighting device intended primarily for igniting materials other than smoking materials, such as fuel for fireplaces or for charcoal or gas-fired grills. When used in this part 1210, the term
lighter
includes only the disposable and novelty lighters to which this regulation applies.
(d)
Novelty lighter
means a lighter that has entertaining audio or visual effects, or that depicts (logos, decals, art work, etc.) or resembles in physical form or function articles commonly recognized as appealing to or intended for use by children under 5 years of age. This includes, but is not limited to, lighters that depict or resemble cartoon characters, toys, guns, watches, musical instruments, vehicles, toy animals, food or beverages, or that play musical notes or have flashing lights or other entertaining features. A novelty lighter may operate on any fuel, including butane or liquid fuel.
(e)
Successful operation
means one signal of any duration from a surrogate lighter within either of the two 5-minute test periods specified in § 1210.4(f).
(f)
Surrogate lighter
means a device that: approximates the appearance, size, shape, and weight of, and is identical in all other factors that affect child resistance (including operation and the force(s) required for operation), within reasonable manufacturing tolerances, to, a lighter intended for use by consumers; has no fuel; does not produce a flame; and produces an audible or visual signal that will be clearly discernible when the surrogate lighter is activated in each manner that would normally produce a flame in a production lighter. (This definition does not require a lighter to be modified with electronics or the like to produce a signal. Manufacturers may use a lighter without fuel as a surrogate lighter if a distinct signal such as a “click” can be heard clearly when the mechanism is operated in each manner that would produce a flame in a production lighter and if a flame cannot be produced in a production lighter without the signal.
But see
§ 1210.4(f)(1).)
(g)
Model
means one or more cigarette lighters from the same manufacturer or importer that do not differ in design or other characteristics in any manner that may affect child-resistance. Lighter characteristics that may affect child-resistance include, but are not limited to, size, shape, case material, and ignition mechanism (including child-resistant features).
[58 FR 37584, July 12, 1993, as amended at 69 FR 19763, Apr. 14, 2004; 78 FR 52679, Aug. 26, 2013; 83 FR 62241, Dec. 3, 2018]
§ 1210.3
Requirements for cigarette lighters.
(a) A lighter subject to this part 1210 shall be resistant to successful operation by at least 85 percent of the child-test panel when tested in the manner prescribed by § 1210.4.
(b) The mechanism or system of a lighter subject to this part 1210 that makes the product resist successful operation by children must:
(1) Reset itself automatically after each operation of the ignition mechanism of the lighter,
(2) Not impair safe operation of the lighter when used in a normal and convenient manner,
(3) Be effective for the reasonably expected life of the lighter, and
(4) Not be easily overriden or deactivated.
§ 1210.4
Test protocol.
(a)
Child test panel.
(1) The test to determine if a lighter is resistant to successful operation by children uses a panel of children to test a surrogate lighter representing the production lighter intended for use. Written informed consent shall be obtained from a parent or legal guardian of a child before the child participates in the test.
(2) The test shall be conducted using at least one, but no more than two, 100-child test panels in accordance with the provisions of § 1210.4(f).
(3) The children for the test panel shall live within the United States.
(4) The age and sex distribution of each 100-child panel shall be:
(i) 30 + or- 2 children (20 + or- 1 males; 10 + or- 1 females) 42 through 44 months old;
(ii) 40 + or- 2 children (26 + or- 1 males; 14 + or- 1 females) 45 through 48 months old;
(iii) 30 + or- 2 children (20 + or- 1 males; 10 + or- 1 females) 49 through 51 months old.
Note: To calculate a child's age in months:
1. Subtract the child's birth date from the test date.
Month
Day
Year
Test Date
8
3
94
Birth Date
6
23
90
Difference
2
-20
4
2. Multiply the difference in years by 12 months.
4 years × 12 months = 48 months.
3. Add the difference in months.
48 months + 2 months = 50 months.
4. If the difference in days is greater than 15 (e.g. 16, 17), add 1 month.
If the difference in days is less than −15 (e.g., −16, −17) subtract 1 month.
50 months − 1 month = 49 months.
If the difference in days is between −15 and 15 (e.g., −15, −14, ... 14, 15), do
not
add or subtract 1 month.
(5) No child with a permanent or temporary illness, injury, or handicap that would interfere with the child's ability to operate the surrogate lighter shall be selected for participation.
(6) Two children at a time shall participate in testing of surrogate lighters. Extra children whose results will not be counted in the test may be used if necessary to provide the required partner for test subjects, if the extra children are within the required age range and a parent or guardian of each such child has signed a consent form.
(7) No child shall participate in more than one test panel or test more than one surrogate lighter. No child shall participate in both child-resistant package testing and surrogate lighter testing on the same day.
(b)
Test sites, environment, and adult testers.
(1) Surrogate lighters shall be tested within the United States at 5 or more test sites throughout the geographical area for each 100-child panel if the sites are the customary nursery schools or day care centers of the participating children. No more than 20 children shall be tested at each site. In the alternative, surrogate lighters may be tested within the United States at one or more central locations, provided the participating children are drawn from a variety of locations within the geographical area.
(2) Testing of surrogate lighters shall be conducted in a room that is familiar to the children on the test panel (for example, a room the children frequent at their customary nursery school or day care center). If the testing is conducted in a room that initially is unfamiliar to the children (for example, a room at a central location), the tester shall allow at least 5 minutes for the children to become accustomed to the new environment before starting the test. The area in which the testing is conducted shall be well-lighted and isolated from distractions. The children shall be allowed freedom of movement to work with their surrogate lighters, as long as the tester can watch both children at the same time. Two children at a time shall participate in testing of surrogate lighters. The children shall be seated side by side in chairs approximately 6 inches apart, across a table from the tester. The table shall be normal table height for the children, so that they can sit up at the table with their legs underneath and so that their arms will be at a comfortable height when on top of the table. The children's chairs shall be “child-size.”
(3) Each tester shall be at least 18 years old. Five or 6 adult testers shall be used for each 100-child test panel. Each tester shall test an approximately equal number of children from a 100-child test panel (20 + or- 2 children each for 5 testers and 17 + or- 2 children each for 6 testers).

# Note:
When a test is initiated with five testers and one tester drops out, a sixth tester may be added to complete the testing. When a test is initiated with six testers and one tester drops out, the test shall be completed using the five remaining testers. When a tester drops out, the requirement for each tester to test an approximately equal number of children does not apply to that tester. When testing is initiated with five testers, no tester shall test more than 19 children until it is certain that the test can be completed with five testers.
(c)
Surrogate lighters.
(1) Six surrogate lighters shall be used for each 100-child panel. The six lighters shall represent the range of forces required for operation of lighters intended for use. All surrogate lighters shall be the same color. The surrogate lighters shall be labeled with sequential numbers beginning with the number one. The same six surrogate lighters shall be used for the entire 100-child panel. The surrogate lighters may be used in more than one 100-child panel test. The surrogate lighters shall not be damaged or jarred during storage or transportation. The surrogate lighters shall not be exposed to extreme heat or cold. The surrogate lighters shall be tested at room temperature. No surrogate lighter shall be left unattended.
(2) Each surrogate lighter shall be tested by an approximately equal number of children in a 100-child test panel (17 + or- 2 children).

# Note:
If a surrogate lighter is permanently damaged, testing shall continue with the remaining lighters. When a lighter is dropped out, the requirement that each lighter be tested by an approximately equal number of children does not apply to that lighter.
(3) Before each 100-child panel is tested, each surrogate lighter shall be examined to verify that it approximates the appearance, size, shape, and weight of a production lighter intended for use.
(4) Before and after each 100-child panel is tested, force measurements shall be taken on all operating components that could affect child resistance to verify that they are within reasonable operating tolerances for a production lighter intended for use.
(5) Before and after testing surrogate lighters with each child, each surrogate lighter shall be operated outside the presence of any child participating in the test to verify that the lighters produce a signal. If the surrogate lighter will not produce a signal before the test, it shall be repaired before it is used in testing. If the surrogate lighter does not produce a signal when it is operated after the test, the results for the preceding test with that lighter shall be eliminated. The lighter shall be repaired and tested with another eligible child (as one of a pair of children) to complete the test panel.
(d)
Encouragement.
(1) Prior to the test, the tester shall talk to the children in a normal and friendly tone to make them feel at ease and to gain their confidence.
(2) The tester shall tell the children that he or she needs their help for a special job. The children shall not be promised a reward of any kind for participating, and shall not be told that the test is a game or contest or that it is fun.
(3) The tester shall not discourage a child from attempting to operate the surrogate lighter at any time unless a child is in danger of hurting himself or another child. The tester shall not discuss the dangers of lighters or matches with the children to be tested prior to the end of the 10-minute test.
(4) Whenever a child has stopped attempting to operate the surrogate lighter for a period of approximately one minute, the tester shall encourage the child to try by saying “keep trying for just a little longer.”
(5) Whenever a child says that his or her parent, grandparent, guardian, etc., said never to touch lighters, say “that's right — never touch a real lighter — but your [parent, etc.] said it was OK for you to try to make a noise with this special lighter because it can't hurt you.”
(6) The children in a pair being tested may encourage each other to operate the surrogate lighter and may tell or show each other how to operate it. (This interaction is
not
considered to be disruption as described in paragraph (e)(2) below.) However, neither child shall be allowed to operate the other child's lighter. If one child takes the other child's surrogate lighter, that surrogate lighter shall be immediately returned to the proper child. If this occurs, the tester shall say “No. He(she) has to try to do it himself(herself).”
(e)
Children who refuse to participate.
(1) If a child becomes upset or afraid, and cannot be reassured before the test starts, select another eligible child for participation in that pair.
(2) If a child disrupts the participation of another child for more than one minute during the test, the test shall be stopped and both children eliminated from the results. An explanation shall be recorded on the data collection record. These two children should be replaced with other eligible children to complete the test panel.
(3) If a child is not disruptive but refuses to attempt to operate the surrogate lighter throughout the entire test period, that child shall be eliminated from the test results and an explanation shall be recorded on the data collection record. The child shall be replaced with another eligible child (as one of a pair of children) to complete the test panel.
(f)
Test procedure.
(1) To begin the test, the tester shall say “I have a special lighter that will not make a flame. It makes a noise like this.” Except where doing so would block the child's view of a visual signal, the adult tester shall place a 8
1/2
by 11 inch sheet of cardboard or other rigid opaque material upright on the table in front of the surrogate lighter, so that the surrogate lighter cannot be seen by the child, and shall operate the surrogate lighter once to produce its signal. The tester shall say “Your parents [or other guardian, if applicable] said it is OK for you to try to make that noise with your lighter.” The tester shall place a surrogate lighter in each child's hand and say “now
you
try to make a noise with your lighter. Keep trying until I tell you to stop.”
(2) The adult tester shall observe the children for 5 minutes to determine if
either or both of the children can successfully operate the surrogate lighter by producing one signal of any duration. If a child achieves a spark without defeating the child-resistant feature, say “that's a spark — it won't hurt you — try to make the noise with your lighter.” If any child successfully operates the surrogate lighter during this period, the surrogate lighter shall be taken from that child and the child shall not be asked to try to operate the lighter again. The tester shall ask the successful child to remain until the other child is finished.
(3) If either or both of the children are unable to successfully operate the surrogate lighter during the 5-minute period specified in § 1210.4(f)(2), the adult tester shall demonstrate the operation of the surrogate lighter. To conduct the demonstration, secure the children's full attention by saying “Okay, give me your lighters now.” Take the lighters and place them on the table in front of you out of the children's reach. Then say, “I'll show you how to make the noise with your lighters. First I'll show you with (child's name)'s lighter and then I'll show you with (child's name)'s lighter.” Pick up the first child's lighter. Hold the lighter approximately two feet in front of the children at their eye level. Hold the lighter in a vertical position in one hand with the child-resistant feature exposed (not covered by fingers, thumb, etc.) Orient the child-resistant mechanism on the lighter toward the children. (This may require a change in your orientation to the children such as sitting sideways in the chair to allow a normal hand position for holding the lighter while assuring that both children have a clear view of the mechanism. You may also need to reposition your chair so your hand is centered between the children.) Say “now watch the lighter.” Look at each child to verify that they are looking at the lighter. Operate the lighter one time in a normal manner according to the manufacturer's instructions. Do not exaggerate operating movements. Do not verbally describe the lighter's operation. Place the first child's lighter back on the table in front of you and pick up the second child's lighter. Say, “Okay, now watch this lighter.” Repeat the demonstration as described above using the second child's lighter.

# Note:
Testers shall be trained to conduct the demonstration in a uniform manner, including the words spoken to the children, the way the lighter is held and operated, and how the tester's hand and body is oriented to the children. All testers must be able to operate the surrogate lighters using only appropriate operating movements in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. If any of these requirements are not met during the demonstration for any pair of children, the results for that pair of children shall be eliminated from the test. Another pair of eligible children shall be used to complete the test panel.
(4) Each child who fails to successfully operate the surrogate lighter in the first 5 minutes is then given another 5 minutes in which to attempt the successful operation of the surrogate lighter. After the demonstrations give their original lighters back to the children by placing a lighter in each child's hand. Say “Okay, now you try to make the noise with your lighters - keep trying until I tell you to stop.” If any child successfully operates the surrogate lighter during this period, the surrogate lighter shall be taken from that child and the child shall not be asked to try to operate the lighter again. The tester shall ask the successful child to remain until the other child is finished.
(5) At the end of the second 5-minute test period, take the surrogate lighter from any child who has not successfully operated it.
(6) After the test is over, ask the children to stand next to you. Look at the children's faces and say: “These are special lighters that don't make fire. Real lighters can burn you. Will you both promise me that you'll never try to work a real lighter?” Wait for an affirmative response from each child; then thank the children for helping.
(7) Escort the children out of the room used for testing.
(8) After a child has participated in the testing of a surrogate lighter, and on the same day, provide written notice of that fact to the child's parent or guardian. This notification may be in the form of a letter provided to the school to be given to the parents or
guardian of each child. The notification shall state that the child participated, shall ask the parent or guardian to warn the child not to play with lighters, and shall remind the parent or guardian to keep all lighters and matches, whether child resistant or not, out of the reach of children. For children who operated the surrogate lighter, the notification shall state that the child was able to operate the child-resistant lighter. For children who do not defeat the child-resistant feature, the notification shall state that, although the child did not defeat the child-resistant feature, the child may be able to do so in the future.
(g)
Data collection and recording.
Except for recording the times required for the children to activate the signal, recording of data should be avoided while the children are trying to operate the lighters, so that the tester's full attention is on the children during the test period. If actual testing is videotaped, the camera shall be stationary and shall be operated remotely in order to avoid distracting the children. Any photographs shall be taken
after
actual testing and shall simulate actual test procedure(s) (for example, the demonstration). The following data shall be collected and recorded for each child in the 100-child test panel:
(1) Sex (male or female).
(2) Date of birth (month, day, year).
(3) Age (in months, to the nearest month, as specified in § 1210.4(a)(4)).
(4) The number of the lighter tested by that child.
(5) Date of participation in the test (month, day, year).
(6) Location where the test was given (city, state, country, and the name of the site or an unique number or letter code that identifies the test site).
(7) The name of the tester who conducted the test.
(8) The elapsed time (to the nearest second) at which the child achieved any operation of the surrogate signal in the first 5-minute test period.
(9) The elapsed time (to the nearest second) at which the child achieved any operation of the surrogate signal in the second 5-minute test period.
(10) For a single pair of children from each 100-child test panel, photograph(s) or video tape to show how the lighter was held in the tester's hand, and the orientation of the tester's body and hand to the children, during the demonstration.
(h)
Evaluation of test results and acceptance criterion.
To determine whether a surrogate lighter resists operation by at least 85 percent of the children, sequential panels of 100 children each, up to a maximum of 2 panels, shall be tested as prescribed below.
(1) If no more than 10 children in the first 100-child test panel successfully operated the surrogate lighter, the lighter represented by the surrogate lighter shall be considered to be resistant to successful operation by at least 85 percent of the child test panel, and no further testing is conducted. If 11 through 18 children in the first 100-child test panel successfully operate the surrogate lighter, the test results are inconclusive, and the surrogate lighter shall be tested with a second 100-child test panel in accordance with this § 1210.4. If 19 or more of the children in the first 100-child test panel successfully operated the surrogate lighter, the lighter represented by the surrogate shall be considered not resistant to successful operation by at least 85 percent of the child test panel, and no further testing is conducted.
(2) If additional testing of the surrogate lighter is required by § 1210.4(h)(1), conduct the test specified by this § 1210.4 using a second 100-child test panel and record the results. If a total of no more than 30 of the children in the combined first and second 100-child test panels successfully operated the surrogate lighter, the lighter represented by the surrogate lighter shall be considered resistant to successful operation by at least 85 percent of the child test panel, and no further testing is performed. If a total of 31 or more children in the combined first and second 100-child test panels successfully operate the surrogate lighter, the lighter represented by the surrogate lighter shall be considered not resistant to successful operation by 85 percent of the child test panel, and no further testing is conducted.
Table 1—Evaluation of Test Results—§ 1210.4(
e
)
Test panel
Cumulative Number of Children
Successful Lighter Operations
Pass
Continue
Fail
1
100
0-10
11-18
19 or more
1
200
11-30
—
31 or more
§ 1210.5
Findings.
Section 9(f) of the Consumer Product Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. 2058(f), requires the Commission to make findings concerning the following topics and to include the findings in the rule.
(a)
The degree and nature of the risk of injury the rule is designed to eliminate or reduce.
The standard is designed to reduce the risk of death and injury from accidental fires started by children playing with lighters. From 1988 to 1990, an estimated 160 deaths per year resulted from such fires. About 150 of these deaths, plus nearly 1,100 injuries and nearly $70 million in property damage, resulted from fires started by children under the age of 5. Fire-related injuries include thermal burns — many of high severity — as well as anoxia and other, less serious injuries. The annual cost of such fires to the public is estimated at about $385 million (in 1990 dollars). Fires started by young children (under age 5) are those which the standard would be most effective at reducing.
(b)
The approximate number of consumer products, or types or classes thereof, subject to the rule.
The standard covers certain flame-producing devices, commonly known as lighters, which are primarily intended for use in lighting cigarettes and other smoking materials. Lighters may be gas- or liquid-fueled, mechanical or electric, and of various physical configurations. Over 600 million lighters are sold annually to consumers in the U.S.; over 100 million are estimated to be in use at any given time. Over 95 percent of all lighters sold are pocket-sized disposable butane models; of the remaining 5 percent, most are pocket refillable butane models. A small proportion of refillables is comprised of pocket liquid-fuel models; still smaller proportions are represented by table lighters and by “novelty” lighters, that is, those having the physical appearance of other specific objects. Approximately 600 million pocket butane disposables (nonrefillable), 15-20 million pocket butane refillables, 5-10 million pocket liquid-fuel refillables, and 1-3 million novelty and other lighters were sold to consumers in 1991. The standard covers disposable lighters, including inexpensive butane refillables, and novelty lighters. Roughly 30 million households have at least one lighter; ownership of more than one lighter is typical, especially among smoking households.
(c)
The need of the public for the consumer products subject to the rule, and the probable effect of the rule on the utility, cost, or availability of such products to meet such need.
Consumers use lighters primarily to light smoking materials. Most other lighting needs that could be filled by matches may also be filled by lighters. Disposable butane lighters are, chiefly by virtue of their low price and convenience, the closest available substitutes for matches. Although matches are found in far more households, lighters have steadily replaced matches since the 1960's as the primary light source among American consumers. The standard generally requires that lighters not be operable by most children under 52 months of age. This would likely be achieved by modifying products to incorporate additional-action switches, levers, or buttons, thereby increasing the difficulty of product activation. Depending on the method of compliance chosen by manufacturers, there could be some adverse effect on the utility of lighters. This may occur to the extent that operation of the products by adult users is made more difficult by the incorporation of child-resistant features. This may lead some consumers to switch to matches, at least temporarily, which could reduce the expected level of safety provided by the standard. In addition, some “novelty” lighters will probably be discontinued, due to the technical difficulty of incorporating child-resistant features or designs. Some loss of utility derived from those products by collectors or other users
may result, though many novelty models will probably remain on the market. The cost of producing lighters subject to the standard is expected to increase due to manufacturers' and importers' expenditures in the areas of research and development, product redesign, tooling and assembly process changes, certification and testing, and other administrative activities. Total per-unit production costs for the various lighter types may increase by 10-40 percent, with an average of less than 20 percent. Cost increases will likely be passed on to consumers in the form of higher retail prices. Disposable lighters may increase in price by 10-40 cents per unit; prices of other lighters may increase by as much as $1-3. The estimated average per-unit price increase for all lighters subject to the standard is about 20 cents. The total annual cost of the standard to consumers is estimated at about $90 million. The estimated cost of the standard per life saved is well under $1 million after considering the benefits of reduced injuries and property damage; this is well below the consensus of estimates of the statistical value of life. A wide range of lighter types and models will continue to be available to consumers. As noted above, some models of novelty lighters — all of which account for less than 1 percent of lighters sold — will likely be discontinued; this should not have a significant impact on the overall availability of lighters to consumers.
(d)
Any means of achieving the objective of the order while minimizing adverse effects on competition or disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices consistent with the public health and safety.
The Commission considered the potential effects on competition and business practices of various aspects of the standard, and, as noted below, incorporated some burden-reducing elements into the proposal. The Commission also encouraged and participated in the development of a draft voluntary standard addressing the risk of child-play fires. A draft voluntary safety standard was developed by members of an ASTM task group (now a subcommittee) to address much of the risk addressed by the proposed CPSC rule. This draft voluntary standard contained performance requirements similar, but not identical, to those in the CPSC proposal. Development work on the voluntary standard ceased in 1991; industry representatives requested that the Commission issue the draft ASTM provisions in a mandatory rule. One possible alternative to this mandatory standard would be for the Commission to rely on voluntary conformance to this draft standard to provide safety to consumers. The expected level of conformance to a voluntary standard is uncertain, however; although some of the largest firms may market some child-resistant lighters that conform to these requirements, most firms (possibly including some of the largest) probably would not. Even under generous assumptions about the level of voluntary conformance, net benefits to consumers would be substantially lower under this alternative than under the standard. Thus, the Commission finds that reliance on voluntary conformance to the draft ASTM standard would not adequately reduce the unreasonable risk associated with lighters.
(e)
The rule (including its effective date) is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk.
The Commission's hazard data and regulatory analysis demonstrate that lighters covered by the standard pose an unreasonable risk of death and injury to consumers. The Commission considered a number of alternatives to address this risk, and believes that the standard strikes the most reasonable balance between risk reduction benefits and potential costs. Further, the amount of time before the standard becomes effective will provide manufacturers and importers of most products adequate time to design, produce, and market safer lighters. Thus, the Commission finds that the standard and its effective date are reasonably necessary to reduce the risk of fire-related death and injury associated with young children playing with lighters.
(f)
The benefits expected from the rule bear a reasonable relationship to its costs.
The standard will substantially reduce the number of fire-related deaths, injuries, and property damage associated with young children playing with lighters. The cost of these accidents, which is estimated to be about $385 million
annually, will also be greatly reduced. Estimated annual benefits of the standard are $205-$270 million; estimated annual costs to the public are about $90 million. Expected annual net benefits would therefore be $115-$180 million. Thus, the Commission finds that a reasonable relationship exists between potential benefits and potential costs of the standard.
(g)
The rule imposes the least burdensome requirement which prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated.
(1) In the final rule, the Commission incorporated a number of changes from the proposed rule in order to minimize the potential burden of the rule on industry and consumers. The Commission also considered and rejected several alternatives during the development of the standard to reduce the potential burden on industry (especially small importers) and on consumers. These alternatives involve different performance and test requirements and different definitions determining the scope of coverage among products. Other alternatives generally would be more burdensome to industry and would have higher costs to consumers. Some less burdensome alternatives would have lower risk-reduction benefits to consumers; none has been identified that would have higher expected net benefits than the standard.
(2) The scope of this mandatory standard is limited to disposable lighters and novelty lighters; it does not apply to “luxury” lighters (including most higher priced refillable butane and liquid-fuel models). This is similar but not identical to the scope of a draft voluntary industry standard developed in response to the Commission's advance notice of proposed rulemaking of March 3, 1988 (53 FR 6833). This exclusion significantly reduces the potential cost of the standard without significantly affecting potential benefits.
(3) The Commission narrowed the scope of the final rule with respect to novelty lighters, and considered limiting the scope further to exclude all nondisposable novelty lighters. Though further limiting the scope would ease the potential burden of the standard on manufacturers and importers slightly, inherently less safe non-child-resistant lighters that are considered to be especially appealing to children would remain on the market, thereby reducing the potential safety benefits to the public. The Commission finds that it would not be in the public interest to exclude novelty lighters.
(4) The Commission considered the potential effect of alternate performance requirements during the development of the standard. A less stringent acceptance criterion of 80 percent (rather than the standard's 85 percent) might slightly reduce costs to industry and consumers. The safety benefits of this alternative, however, would likely be reduced disproportionately to the potential reduction in costs. A higher (90 percent) acceptance criterion was also considered. This higher performance level is not commercially or technically feasible for many firms, however; the Commission believes that this more stringent alternative would have substantial adverse effects on manufacturing and competition, and would increase costs disproportionate to benefits. The Commission believes that the requirement that complying lighters not be operable by at least 85 percent of children in prescribed tests strikes a reasonable balance between improved safety for a substantial majority of young children and other potential fire victims and the potential for adverse competitive effects and manufacturing disruption.
(5) The Commission believes that the standard should become effective as soon as reasonably possible. The standard will become effective 12 months from its date of publication in the
Federal Register.
The Commission also considered an effective date of 6 months after the date of issuance of the final rule. While most lighters sold in the U.S. could probably be made child resistant within 6 months, some disruptive effects on the supply of some imported lighters would result; this could have a temporary adverse impact on the competitive positions of some U.S. importers. The 12-month period in the standard would tend to minimize this potential effect, and would allow more time for firms to design, produce, and import complying lighters. The Commission estimates that there would be no significant adverse impact
on the overall supply of lighters for the U.S. market.
(h)
The promulgation of the rule is in the public interest.
As required by the CPSA and the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the Commission considered the potential benefits and costs of the standard and various alternatives. While certain alternatives to the final rule are estimated to have net benefits to consumers, the adopted rule maximizes these net benefits. Thus, the Commission finds that the standard, if promulgated on a final basis, would be in the public interest.

# Subpart B—Certification Requirements

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2063, 2065(b), 2066(g), 2076(e), 2079(d).
§ 1210.11
General.
Section 14(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA), 15 U.S.C. 1263(a), requires every manufacturer, private labeler, or importer of a product that is subject to a consumer product safety standard and that is distributed in commerce to issue a certificate that such product conforms to the applicable standard and to base that certificate upon a test of each item or upon a reasonable testing program. The purpose of this subpart B of part 1210 is to establish requirements that manufacturers, importers, and private labelers must follow to certify that their products comply with the Safety Standard for Cigarette Lighters. This subpart B describes the minimum features of a reasonable testing program and includes requirements for labeling, recordkeeping, and reporting pursuant to sections 14, 16(b), 17(g), and 27(e) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2063, 2065(b), 2066(g), and 2076(e).
§ 1210.12
Certificate of compliance.
(a)
General requirements
—(1)
Manufacturers (including importers).
Manufacturers of any lighter subject to the standard must issue the certificate of compliance required by section 14(a) of the CPSA and this subpart B, based on a reasonable testing program or a test of each product, as required by §§ 1210.13-1210.14 and 1210.16. Manufacturers must also label each lighter subject to the standard as required by paragraph (c) of this section and keep the records and make the reports required by §§ 1210.15 and 1210.17. For purposes of this requirement, an importer of lighters shall be considered the “manufacturer.”
(2)
Private labelers.
Because private labelers necessarily obtain their products from a manufacturer or importer that is already required to issue the certificate, private labelers are not required to issue a certificate. However, private labelers must ensure that the lighters are labeled in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and that any certificate of compliance that is supplied with each shipping unit of lighters in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section is supplied to any distributor or retailer who receives the product from the private labeler.
(3)
Testing on behalf of importers.
If the required testing has been performed by or for a foreign manufacturer of a product, an importer may rely on such tests to support the certificate of compliance, provided that the importer is a resident of the United States or has a resident agent in the United States, the records are in English, and the records and the surrogate lighters tested are kept in the United States and can be provided to the Commission within 48 hours (§ 1210.17(a)) or, in the case of production records, can be provided to the Commission within 7 calendar days in accordance with § 1210.17(a)(3). The importer is responsible for ensuring that the foreign manufacturer's records show that all testing used to support the certificate of compliance has been performed properly (§§ 1210.14-1210.16), the records provide a reasonable assurance that all lighters imported comply with the standard (§ 1210.13(b)(1)), the records exist in English (§ 1210.17(a)), (4) the importer knows where the required records and lighters are located and that records required to be located in the United States are located there, arrangements have been made so that any records required to be kept in the United States will be provided to the Commission within 48 hours of a request and any records not kept in the United States will be provided to the Commission within 7 calendar days
(§ 1210.17(a)), and the information required by § 1210.17(b) to be provided to the Commission's Division of Regulatory Management has been provided.
(b)
Certificate of compliance.
A certificate of compliance must accompany each shipping unit of the product (for example, a case), or otherwise be furnished to any distributor or retailer to whom the product is sold or delivered by the manufacturer, private labeler, or importer. The certificate shall state:
(1) That the product “complies with the Consumer Product Safety Standard for Cigarette Lighters (16 CFR 1210),”
(2) The name and address of the manufacturer or importer issuing the certificate or of the private labeler, and
(3) The date(s) of manufacture and, if different from the address in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the address of the place of manufacture.
(c)
Labeling.
The manufacturer or importer must label each lighter with the following information, which may be in code.
(1) An identification of the period of time, not to exceed 31 days, during which the lighter was manufactured.
(2) An identification of the manufacturer of the lighter, unless the lighter bears a private label. If the lighter bears a private label, it shall bear a code mark or other label which will permit the seller of the lighter to identify the manufacturer to the purchaser upon request.
[58 FR 37584, July 12, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 67621, Dec. 30, 1994]
§ 1210.13
Certification tests.
(a)
General.
As explained in § 1210.11 of this subpart, certificates of compliance required by section 14(a) of the CPSA must be based on a reasonable testing program.
(b)
Reasonable testing programs
—(1)
Requirements.
(i) A reasonable testing program for lighters is one that demonstrates with a high degree of assurance that all lighters manufactured for sale or distributed in commerce will meet the requirements of the standard, including the requirements of § 1210.3. Manufacturers and importers shall determine the types and frequency of testing for their own reasonable testing programs. A reasonable testing program should be sufficiently stringent that it will detect any variations in production or performance during the production interval that would cause any lighters to fail to meet the requirements of the standard.
(ii) All reasonable testing programs shall include qualification tests, which must be performed on surrogates of each model of lighter produced, or to be produced, to demonstrate that the product is capable of passing the tests prescribed by the standard (see § 1210.14), and production tests, which must be performed during appropriate production intervals as long as the product is being manufactured (see § 1210.16).
(iii) Corrective action and/or additional testing must be performed whenever certification tests of samples of the product give results that do not provide a high degree of assurance that all lighters manufactured during the applicable production interval will pass the tests of the standard.
(2)
Testing by third parties.
At the option of the manufacturer or importer, some or all of the testing of each lighter or lighter surrogate may be performed by a commercial testing laboratory or other third party. However, the manufacturer or importer must ensure that all certification testing has been properly performed with passing results and that all records of such tests are maintained in accordance with § 1210.17 of this subpart.
§ 1210.14
Qualification testing.
(a)
Testing.
Before any manufacturer or importer of lighters distributes lighters in commerce in the United States, surrogate lighters of each model shall be tested in accordance with § 1210.4, above, to ensure that all such lighters comply with the standard. However, if a manufacturer has tested one model of lighter, and then wishes to distribute another model of lighter that differs from the first model only by differences that would not have an
adverse
effect on child resistance, the second model need not be tested in accordance with § 1210.4.
(b)
Product modifications.
If any changes are made to a product after initial qualification testing that could adversely affect the ability of the product to meet the requirements of the
standard, additional qualification tests must be made on surrogates for the changed product before the changed lighters are distributed in commerce.
(c)
Requalification.
If a manufacturer or importer chooses to requalify a lighter design after it has been in production, this may be done by following the testing procedures at § 1210.4.
§ 1210.15
Specifications.
(a)
Requirement.
Before any lighters that are subject to the standard are distributed in commerce, the manufacturer or importer shall ensure that the surrogate lighters used for qualification testing under § 1210.14 are described in a written product specification. (Section 1210.4(c) requires that six surrogate lighters be used for testing each 100-child panel.)
(b)
Contents of specification.
The product specification shall include the following information:
(1) A complete description of the lighter, including size, shape, weight, fuel, fuel capacity, ignition mechanism, and child-resistant features.
(2) A detailed description of all dimensions, force requirements, or other features that could affect the child-resistance of the lighter, including the manufacturer's tolerances for each such dimension or force requirement.
(3) Any further information, including, but not limited to, model names or numbers, necessary to adequately describe the lighters and any child-resistant features.
§ 1210.16
Production testing.
(a)
General.
Manufacturers and importers shall test samples of lighters subject to the standard as they are manufactured, to demonstrate that the lighters meet the specifications, required under § 1210.15, of the surrogate that has been shown by qualification testing to meet the requirements of the standard.
(b)
Types and frequency of testing.
Manufacturers, private labelers, and importers shall determine the types of tests for production testing. Each production test shall be conducted at a production interval short enough to provide a high degree of assurance that, if the samples selected for testing pass the production tests, all other lighters produced during the interval will meet the standard.
(c)
Test failure
—(1)
Sale of lighters.
If any test yields results which indicate that any lighters manufactured during the production interval may not meet the standard, production and distribution in commerce of lighters that may not comply with the standard must cease until it is determined that the lighters meet the standard or until corrective action is taken. (It may be necessary to modify the lighters or perform additional tests to ensure that only complying lighters are distributed in commerce. Lighters from other production intervals having test results showing that lighters from that interval comply with the standard could be produced and distributed unless there was some reason to believe that they might not comply with the standard.)
(2)
Corrective actions.
When any production test fails to provide a high degree of assurance that all lighters comply with the standard, corrective action must be taken. Corrective action may include changes in the manufacturing process, the assembly process, the equipment used to manufacture the product, or the product's materials or design. The corrective action must provide a high degree of assurance that all lighters produced after the corrective action will comply with the standard. If the corrective action changes the product from the surrogate used for qualification testing in a manner that could adversely affect its child resistance, the lighter must undergo new qualification tests in accordance with § 1210.14, above.
§ 1210.17
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(a)
Records.
Every manufacturer and importer of lighters subject to the standard shall maintain the following records in English on paper, microfiche, or similar media and make such records available to any designated officer or employee of the Commission in accordance with section 16(b) of the Consumer Product Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. 2065(b). Such records must also be kept in the United States and provided to the Commission within 48 hours of receipt of a request from any employee of the Commission, except as
provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Legible copies of original records may be used to comply with these requirements.
(1) Records of qualification testing, including a description of the tests, photograph(s) or a video tape for a single pair of children from each 100-child test panel to show how the lighter was held in the tester's hand, and the orientation of the tester's body and hand to the children, during the demonstration, the dates of the tests, the data required by § 1210.4(d), the actual surrogate lighters tested, and the results of the tests, including video tape records, if any. These records shall be kept until 3 years after the production of the particular model to which such tests relate has ceased. If requalification tests are undertaken in accordance with § 1210.14(c), the original qualification test results may be discarded 3 years after the requalification testing, and the requalification test results and surrogates, and the other information required in this subsection for qualifications tests, shall be kept in lieu thereof.
(2) Records of procedures used for production testing required by this subpart B, including a description of the types of tests conducted (in sufficient detail that they may be replicated), the production interval selected, the sampling scheme, and the pass/reject criterion. These records shall be kept until 3 years after production of the lighter has ceased.
(3) Records of production testing, including the test results, the date and location of testing, and records of corrective actions taken, which in turn includes the specific actions taken to improve the design or manufacture or to correct any noncomplying lighter, the date the actions were taken, the test result or failure that triggered the actions, and the additional actions taken to ensure that the corrective action had the intended effect. These records shall be kept for 3 years following the date of testing. Records of production testing results may be kept on paper, microfiche, computer tape, or other retrievable media. Where records are kept on computer tape or other retrievable media, however, the records shall be made available to the Commission on paper copies upon request. A manufacturer or importer of a lighter that is not manufactured in the United States may maintain the production records required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section outside the United States, but shall make such records available to the Commission in the United States within 1 week of a request from a Commission employee for access to those records under section 16(b) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2065(b).
(4) Records of specifications required under § 1210.15 shall be kept until 3 years after production of each lighter model has ceased.
(b)
Reporting.
At least 30 days before it first imports or distributes in commerce any model of lighter subject to the standard, every manufacturer and importer must provide a written report to the Division of Regulatory Management, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, D.C. 20207. Such report shall include:
(1) The name, address, and principal place of business of the manufacturer or importer,
(2) A detailed description of the lighter model and the child-resistant feature(s) used in that model,
(3) A description of the qualification testing, including a description of the surrogate lighters tested, the specification of the surrogate lighter required by § 1210.15, a summary of the results of all such tests, the dates the tests were performed, the location(s) of such tests, and the identity of the organization that conducted the tests,
(4) An identification of the place or places that the lighters were or will be manufactured,
(5) The location(s) where the records required to be maintained by paragraph (a) of this section are kept, and
(6) A prototype or production unit of that lighter model.
(c)
Confidentiality.
Persons who believe that any information required to be submitted or made available to the Commission is trade secret or otherwise confidential shall request that the information be considered exempt from disclosure by the Commission, in accordance with 16 CFR 1015.18. Requests for confidentiality of records provided to the Commission will be handled in accordance with section 6(a)(2) of the
CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2055(a)(2), the Freedom of Information Act as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552, and the Commission's regulations under that act, 16 CFR part 1015.
§ 1210.18
Refusal of importation.
(a)
For noncompliance with reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
The Commission has determined that compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart is necessary to ensure that lighters comply with this part 1210. Therefore, pursuant to section 17(g) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2066(g), the Commission may refuse to permit importation of any lighters with respect to which the manufacturer or importer has not complied with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart. Since the records are required to demonstrate that production lighters comply with the specifications for the surrogate, the Commission may refuse importation of lighters if production lighters do not comply with the specifications required by this subpart or if any other recordkeeping or reporting requirement in this part is violated.
(b)
For noncompliance with this standard and for lack of a certification certificate.
As provided in section 17(a) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2066(a), products subject to this standard shall be refused admission into the customs territory of the United States if, among other reasons, the product fails to comply with this standard or is not accompanied by the certificate required by this standard.

# Subpart C—Stockpiling

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2058(g)(2), 2079(d).
§ 1210.20
Stockpiling.
(a)
Definition. Stockpiling
means to manufacture or import a product that is subject to a consumer product safety rule between the date of issuance of the rule and its effective date at a rate which is significantly greater than the rate at which such product was produced or imported during a base period.
(b)
Base Period.
For purposes of this rule,
base period
means, at the option of the manufacturer or importer, any 1-year period during the 5-year period prior to July 12, 1993.
(c)
Prohibited act.
Manufacturers and importers of disposable and novelty cigarette lighters shall not manufacture or import lighters that do not comply with the requirements of this part between July 12, 1993 and July 12, 1994, at a rate that is greater than the rate of production or importation during the base period plus 20 per cent of that rate.
Pt. 1211

# PART 1211—SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS

# Subpart A—The Standard
Sec.
1211.1
Effective date.
1211.2
Definition.
1211.3
Units of measurement.
1211.4
General requirements for protection against risk of injury.
1211.5
General testing parameters.
1211.6
General entrapment protection requirements.
1211.7
Inherent primary entrapment protection requirements.
1211.8
Secondary entrapment protection requirements.
1211.9
Additional entrapment protection requirements.
1211.10
Requirements for all entrapment protection devices.
1211.11
Requirements for photoelectric sensors.
1211.12
Requirements for edge sensors.
1211.13
Inherent force activated secondary door sensors.
1211.14
Unattended operation requirements.
1211.15
Vertically moving combination rigid one-piece overhead residential garage door and operator system.
1211.16
Instruction manual.
1211.17
Field-installed labels.
1211.18
UL marking requirement.
1211.19
Statutory labeling requirement.
Figures 1-10 to Subpart A of Part 1211
Figure 1 to Subpart A to Part 1211—Critical Condition Flow Chart for Residential Garage Door Operator Entrapment Protection Devices and Functions
Figure 2 to Subpart A of Part 1211—Nozzle Section A-A
Figure 3 to Subpart A of Part 1211—Stationary Obstruction
Figure 4 to Subpart A of Part 1211—Moving Obstruction
Figure 5 to Subpart A of Part 1211—Ambient Light Test
Figure 6 to Subpart A of Part 1211—Edge Sensor Normal Operation Test
Figure 7 to Subpart A of Part 1211—Puncture Probe
Figure 8 to Subpart A of Part 1211—Example Test Apparatus for Measurements at 12 Inches or Greater
Figure 9 to Subpart A oo Part 1211—Example Test Apparatus for Measurements at 12 Inches or Greater
Figure 10 to Subpart A of Part 1211—Example Test Apparatus for Measurements at 12 Inches or Greater
Table 1 to Subpart A of Part 1211—Physical Properties of Gasket-Accelerated Aging Test

# Subpart B—Certification
1211.20
Purpose, scope, and application.
1211.21
Effective date.
1211.22
Definitions.
1211.23
Certification testing.
1211.24
Product certification and labeling by manufacturers.
1211.25
Product certification and labeling by importers.

# Subpart C—Recordkeeping
1211.30
Effective date.
1211.31
Recordkeeping requirements.

# Subpart D—Incorporation by Reference
1211.40
Incorporation by reference.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056 Note; 15 U.S.C. 2063 and 2065.

# Subpart A—The Standard

# Source:
57 FR 60455, Dec. 21, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1211.1
Effective date.
This standard applies to all residential garage door operators manufactured on or after January 1, 1993 for sale in the United States.
§ 1211.2
Definition.
As used in this part 1211:
Residential garage door operator
means a vehicular door operator which:
(a) Serves a residential building of one to four single family units;
(b) Is rated 600 volts or less; and
(c) Is intended to be employed in ordinary locations in accordance with NFPA 70 (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.32).
[57 FR 60455, Dec. 21, 1992, as amended at 62 FR 46667, Sept. 4, 1997; 65 FR 70657, Nov. 27, 2000; 81 FR 20228, Apr. 7, 2016]
§ 1211.3
Units of measurement.
If a value for measurement is followed by a value in other units, in parentheses, the second value may be only approximate. The first stated value is the requirement.
[57 FR 60455, Dec. 21, 1992, as amended at 65 FR 70657, Nov. 27, 2000]
§ 1211.4
General requirements for protection against risk of injury.
(a) If an automatically reset protective device is employed, automatic restarting of a motor shall not result in a risk of injury to persons.
(b) A residential garage door operator is considered to comply with the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section if some means is provided to prevent the motor from restarting when the protector closes.
(c) An electronic or solid-state circuit that performs a back-up, limiting, or other function intended to reduce the risk of fire, electric shock, or injury to persons, including entrapment protection circuits, shall comply with the requirements in UL 991 (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40), including environmental and stress tests appropriate to the intended usage of the end-product. Exception: A control or electronic circuit that complies with Supplement SA of UL 325-2017 (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40) is considered to fulfill this requirement.
[57 FR 60455, Dec. 21, 1992, as amended at 62 FR 46667, Sept. 4, 1997; 65 FR 70657, Nov. 27, 2000; 81 FR 20228, Apr. 7, 2016; 83 FR 32568, July 13, 2018]
§ 1211.5
General testing parameters.
(a) The following test parameters are to be used in the investigation of the circuit covered by § 1211.4(c) for compliance with either, UL 991, or Supplement SA of UL 325-2017 (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40):
(1) With regard to electrical supervision of critical components, an operator being inoperative with respect to
closing movement of the door meets the criteria for trouble indication.
(2) A field strength of 3 volts per meter is to be used for the Radiated EMI Test.
(3) The Composite Operational and Cycling Test is to be used for 14 days at temperature extremes of minus 35 °Celsius (minus 31 °F) and 70 °C (158 °F).
(4) Exposure Class H5 is to be used for the Humidity Test.
(5) A vibration level of 5g is to be used for the Vibration Test.
(6) When a Computational Investigation is conducted, λ
p
shall not be greater than 6 failures/10
6
hours for the entire system. For external secondary entrapment protection devices or systems that are sold separately, λ
p
shall not be greater than 0 failures/10
6
hours. For internal secondary entrapment protection devices or systems whether or not they are sold separately, λ
p
shall not be greater than 0 failures/10
6
hours. The operational test is conducted for 14 days. An external secondary entrapment protection device or system that is sold separately, and that has a λ
p
greater than 0 failures/10
6
hours meets the intent of the requirement when for the combination of the operator and the specified external secondary entrapment protection device or system λ
p
does not exceed 6 failures/10
6
hours. See § 1211.18(j) through (l).
(7) When the Demonstrated Method Test is conducted, the multiplier is to be based on the continuous usage level, and a minimum of 24 units for a minimum of 24 hours per unit are to be tested.
(8) The Endurance test is to be conducted concurrently with the Operational test. The control shall perform its intended function while being conditioned for fourteen days in an ambient air temperature of 60 °C (140 °F), or 10 °C (18 °F) greater than the operating temperature of the control, whichever is higher. During the test, the control is to be operated in a manner representing the opening and closing of the door at a rate of one open-close operation per minute.
(9) For the Electrical Fast Transient Burst Test, test level 3 is to be used for residential garage door operators.
(b) In the evaluation of entrapment protection circuits used in residential garage door operators, the critical condition flow chart shown in figure 1 to subpart A shall be used:
(1) To conduct a failure-mode and effect analysis (FMEA);
(2) In investigating the performance during the Environmental Stress Tests;
(3) During the Power Cycling Safety for Tests in accordance with UL 991 (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40); and
(4) During evaluation of the circuit to the requirements of Supplement SA of UL 325-2017 (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40).
[57 FR 60455, Dec. 21, 1992, as amended at 62 FR 46667, Sept. 4, 1997; 65 FR 70657, Nov. 27, 2000; 81 FR 20228, Apr. 7, 2016; 83 FR 32568, July 13, 2018]
§ 1211.6
General entrapment protection requirements.
(a) A residential garage door operator system shall be provided with inherent primary entrapment protection that complies with the requirements as specified in § 1211.7.
(b) In addition to the inherent primary entrapment protection as required by paragraph (a) of this section, a vertically moving residential garage door operator shall comply with one of the following:
(1) Shall be constructed to:
(i) Require constant pressure on a control intended to be installed and activated within line of sight of the door to lower the door;
(ii) Reverse direction and open the door to the upmost position when constant pressure on a control is removed prior to operator reaching its lower limit, and
(iii) Limit a portable transmitter, when supplied, to function only to cause the operator to open the door;
(2) Shall be provided with a means for connection of an external secondary entrapment protection device as described in § 1211.8 (a) and (c) through (e), as applicable to vertically moving doors; or
(3)(i) Shall be provided with an inherent secondary entrapment protection device as described in §§ 1211.8(a) and (f), 1211.10, and 1211.12 and is:
(A) A combination sectional overhead garage door operator system as described in § 1211.6(c); and
(B) For use only with vertically moving garage doors.
(ii) With respect to § 1211.6(b)(3)(i)(A), trolley-driven operators do not meet the definition of a combination sectional overhead garage door operator system.
(c) In the case of a vertically moving combination sectional overhead garage door operator system, the door shall comply with the requirements in ANSI/DASMA 102 (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40).
(d) In addition to the inherent primary entrapment protection as required by § 1211.6(a), a horizontally sliding residential garage door operator shall comply with one of the following:
(1) Shall be constructed to:
(i) Require constant pressure on a control to close the door;
(ii) Reverse direction and open the door a minimum of 2 in (50.8 mm) when constant pressure on a control is removed prior to operator reaching its position limit; and
(iii) Stop the door if a second obstruction is detected in the reverse direction.
(2) Shall be provided with a means for connection of an external secondary entrapment protection device for each leading edge as described in § 1211.8(c) through (e), as applicable to horizontally moving doors.
(e) A mechanical switch or a relay used in an entrapment protection circuit of an operator shall withstand 100,000 cycles of operation controlling a load no less severe (voltage, current, power factor, inrush and similar ratings) than it controls in the operator, and shall function normally upon completion of the test.
(f) In addition to complying with paragraph (e) of this section, in the event of a malfunction of a switch or relay (open or short) described in paragraph (c) of this section results in loss of any entrapment protection required by § 1211.7(a), § 1211.7(b)(7), § 1211.7(c)(7), § 1211.8(a), or § 1211.8(b), the door operator shall become inoperative at the end of the opening or closing operation, the door operator shall move the door to, and stay within, 1 foot (305 mm) of the uppermost position.
[81 FR 20228, Apr. 7, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 32569, July 13, 2018]
§ 1211.7
Inherent primary entrapment protection requirements.
(a)
General requirements.
A vertically moving residential garage door operator system shall be supplied with inherent primary entrapment protection that complies with the requirements as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. A horizontally sliding residential garage door operator system shall be supplied with inherent primary entrapment protection that complies with the requirements as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Inherent primary entrapment protection, vertically moving doors.
(1)(i) For a vertically moving residential garage door operator system, other than for the first 1 foot (305mm) of door travel from the full upmost position both with and without any secondary external entrapment protection device functional, the operator of a downward moving residential garage door shall initiate reversal of the door within 2 seconds of contact with the obstruction as specified in subparagraph (b)(3) of this section. After reversing the door, the operator shall return the door to, and stop at, the full upmost position. Compliance shall be determined in accordance with paragraphs (b)(3) through (10) of this section.
(ii) The door operator is not required to return the door to, and stop the door at, the full upmost position when the operator senses a second obstruction during the upward travel.
(iii) The door operator is not required to return the door to, and stop the door at, the full upmost position when a control is actuated to stop the door during the upward travel—but the door can not be moved downward until the operator reverses the door a minimum of 2 inches (50.8 mm).
(2) The test shall be performed on a representative operating system installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions with the operator exerting a 25-lbf (111.21-N) pull or its rated pull, whichever is greater.
(3)(i) A solid object is to be placed on the floor of the test installation and at various heights under the edge of the door and located in line with the driving point of the operator. When tested on the floor, the object shall be 1 inch
(25.4 mm) high. In the test installation, the bottom edge of the door under the driving force of the operator is to be against the floor when the door is fully closed.
(ii) For operators other than those attached to the door, a solid object is not required to be located in line with the driving point of the operator. The solid object is to be located at points at the center, and within 1 foot of each end of the door.
(iii) To test operators for compliance with requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii), (b)(7)(iii), and (b)(8)(iii) of this section and § 1211.13(c), a solid rectangular object measuring 4 inches (102 mm) high by 6 inches (152 mm) wide by a minimum of 6 inches (152 mm)long is to be placed on the floor of the test installation to provide a 4-inch (102 mm) high obstruction when operated from a partially open position.
(4) An operator is to be tested for compliance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section for 50 open-and-close cycles of operation while the operator is connected to the type of residential garage door with which it is intended to be used or with the doors specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. For an operator having a force adjustment on the operator, the force is to be adjusted to the maximum setting or at the setting that represents the most severe operating condition. Any accessories having an effect on the intended operation of entrapment protection functions that are intended for use with the operator, are to be attached and the test is to be repeated for one additional cycle.
(5) For an operator that is to be adjusted (limit and force) according to instructions supplied with the operator, the operator is to be tested for 10 additional obstruction cycles using the solid object described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section at the maximum setting or at the setting that represents the most severe operating condition.
(6) For an operator that is intended to be used with more than one type of door, one sample of the operator is to be tested on a sectional door with a curved track and one sample is to be tested on a one-piece door with jamb hardware and no track. For an operator that is not intended for use on either or both types of doors, a one-piece door with track hardware or a one-piece door with pivot hardware shall be used for the tests. For an operator that is intended for use with a specifically dedicated door or doors, a representative door or doors shall be used for the tests. See the marking requirements at § 1211.18.
(7)(i) An operator, employing an inherent entrapment protection system that measures or monitors the actual position of the door, shall initiate reversal of the door and shall return the door to, and stop the door at, the full upmost position in the event the inherent door operating “profile” of the door differs from the originally set parameters. The entrapment protection system shall measure or monitor the position of the door at increments not greater than 1 inch (25.4 mm).
(ii) The door operator is not required to return the door to, and stop the door at, the full upmost position when an inherent entrapment circuit senses an obstruction during the upward travel.
(iii) The door operator is not required to return the door to, and stop the door at, the full upmost position when a control is actuated to stop the door during the upward travel—but the door can not be moved downward until the operator reverses the door a minimum of 2 inches (50.8 mm).
(8)(i) An operator, using an inherent entrapment protection system that does not measure or monitor the actual position of the door, shall initiate reversal of the door and shall return the door, to and stop the door at the full upmost position, when the lower limiting device is not actuated in 30 seconds or less following the initiation of the close cycle.
(ii) The door operator is not required to return the door to, and stop the door at, the full upmost position when an inherent entrapment circuit senses an obstruction during the upward travel. When the door is stopped manually during its descent, the 30 seconds shall be measured from the resumption of the close cycle.
(iii) The door operator is not required to return the door to, and stop the door at, the full upmost position when a control is actuated to stop the door
during the upward travel—but the door can not be moved downward until the operator reverses the door a minimum of 2 inches (50.8 mm). When the door is stopped manually during its descent, the 30 seconds shall be measured from the resumption of the close cycle.
(9) To determine compliance with paragraph (b)(7) or (8) of this section, an operator is to be subjected to 10 open-and-close cycles of operation while connected to the door or doors specified in paragraphs (b)(4) and (6) of this section. The cycles are not required to be consecutive. Motor cooling-off periods during the test meet the intent of the requirement. The means supplied to comply with the requirement in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and § 1211.8(a) or (b) are to be defeated during the test. An obstructing object is to be used so that the door is not capable of activating a lower limiting device.
(10) During the closing cycle referred to in paragraph (b)(9) of this section, the system providing compliance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (7) of this section or paragraphs (b)(1) and (8) of this section shall function regardless of a short- or open-circuit anywhere in any low-voltage external wiring, any external entrapment devices, or any other external component.
(c)
Inherent primary entrapment protection, horizontally sliding doors.
(1)(i) For a horizontally sliding residential garage door operator system, other than for the first 1 foot (305mm) of door travel from the full closed position both with and without any external entrapment protection device functional, the operator of a closing residential garage door shall initiate reversal of the door within 2 seconds of contact with the obstruction as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. After reversing the door, the operator shall open the door a minimum of 2 inches (50.8 mm) from the edge of the obstruction. Compliance shall be determined in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2) through (10) of this section.
(ii) The door operator is not required to open the door a minimum 2 inches (50.8 mm) when the operator senses a second obstruction during the reversing travel.
(iii) The door operator is not required to open the door a minimum 2 inches (50.8 mm) when a control is actuated to stop the door during movement towards the open position—but the door can not be moved towards the closed position until the operator reverses the door a minimum of 2 inches (50.8 mm).
(2) The test shall be performed on a representative operating system installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions with the operator exerting a 25-lbf (111.21-N) pull or its rated pull, whichever is greater.
(3)(i) A solid object is to be placed on the floor of the test installation and rigidly supported within the bottom track and then repeated with the solid object placed on the floor and rigidly supported external to the track. The test shall then be repeated with the solid object rigidly supported at heights of 1 ft (305 mm), 3 ft (914 mm), 5 ft (1524 mm), and within 1 ft (305 mm) of the top edge. The object shall be 1 inch (25.4 mm) in width.
(ii) For operators other than those attached to the door, a solid object is not required to be located in line with the driving point of the operator. The solid object is to be located at points at the center and within 1 ft of each end of the door opening.
(iii) To test operators for compliance with paragraphs (c)(1)(iii), (c)(7)(iii), and (c)(8)(iii) of this section, and § 1211.13(c), a solid rectangular object measuring 4 inches (102 mm) high by 6 inches (152 mm) wide by a minimum of 6 in (152 mm) long is to be placed on the floor of the test installation to provide a 4 in (102 mm) high obstruction when operated from a partially open position with the test repeated with the bottom edge of the obstruction rigidly supported at heights of 1 ft (305 mm), 3ft (914 mm), 5ft (1524 mm), and within 1 ft (305 mm) of the top edge.
(4) An operator is to be tested for compliance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section for 50 open-and-close cycles of operation while the operator is connected to the type of residential garage door with which it is intended to be used or with the doors specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. For an operator having a force adjustment on the operator, the force is to be adjusted
to the maximum setting or at the setting that represents the most severe operating condition. Any accessories having an effect on the intended operation of entrapment protection functions that are intended for use with the operator, are to be attached and the test is to be repeated for one additional cycle.
(5) For an operator that is to be adjusted (limit and force) according to instructions supplied with the operator, the operator is to be tested for 10 additional obstruction cycles using the solid object described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section at the maximum setting or at the setting that represents the most severe operating condition.
(6) For an operator that is intended to be used with more than one type of door, one sample of the operator is to be tested on a sectional door with a curved track and one sample is to be tested on a one-piece door with jamb hardware and no track. For an operator that is not intended for use on either or both of these types of doors, a one-piece door with track hardware or a one-piece door with pivot hardware shall be used for the tests. For an operator that is intended for use with a specifically dedicated door or doors, a representative door or doors shall be used for the tests. See the marking requirements in § 1211.18.
(7)(i) An operator, employing an inherent entrapment protection control that measures or monitors the actual position of the door, shall initiate reversal of the door and shall return the door to, and stop the door at, the fully open position in the event the inherent door operation “profile” of the door differs from the originally set parameters. The system shall measure or monitor the position of the door at increments not greater than 1 inch (25.4 mm).
(ii) The door operator is not required to open the door a minimum 2 inches (50.8 mm) when an inherent entrapment circuit senses an obstruction during the reversing travel.
(iii) The door operator is not required to open the door a minimum 2 inches (50.8 mm) when a control is actuated to stop the door during the opening direction—but the door can not be moved in the closing direction until the operator reverses the door a minimum of 2 inches (50.8 mm).
(8)(i) An operator, using an inherent entrapment protection system that does not measure or monitor the actual position of the door, shall initiate reversal of the door and shall open the door a minimum 2 inches (50.8 mm) when the closed position limit device is not actuated within 30 seconds or less following the initiation of the close cycle.
(ii) The door operator is not required to open the door a minimum 2 inches (50.8 mm) when an inherent entrapment circuit senses an obstruction during the reversing travel.
(iii) The door operator is not required to open the door a minimum 2 inches (50.8 mm) when a control is actuated to stop the door during the opening direction—but the door can not be moved in the closing direction until the operator has reversed the door a minimum of 2 inches (50.8 mm). When the door is stopped manually during its closing, the 30 seconds shall be measured from the resumption of the close cycle.
(9) To determine compliance with paragraph (c)(7) or (8) of this section, an operator is to be subjected to 10 open-and-close cycles of operation while connected to the door or doors specified in paragraphs (c)(4) and (6) of this section. The cycles are not required to be consecutive. Motor cooling-off periods during the test meet the intent of the requirement. The means supplied to comply with paragraph (c)(1) of this section and § 1211.8(b) are to be inoperative or defeated during the test. An obstructing object is to be used so that the door is not capable of activating a position limiting device.
(10) During the closing cycle referred to in paragraph (c)(9) of this section, the system providing compliance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (7) of this section or paragraphs (c)(1) and (8) of this section shall function regardless of a short- or open-circuit anywhere in any low-voltage external wiring, any external entrapment devices, or any other external component.
[81 FR 20228, Apr. 7, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 32569, July 13, 2018]
§ 1211.8
Secondary entrapment protection requirements.
(a)(1) For a vertically moving door operator, a secondary entrapment protection device supplied with, or as an accessory to, an operator shall consist of:
(i) An external photoelectric sensor that when activated results in an operator that is closing a door to reverse direction of the door, returns the door to, and stops the door at the fully open position, and the sensor prevents an operator from closing an open door,
(ii) An external edge sensor installed on the edge of the door that, when activated as tested per § 1211.12(a)(4)(1) results in an operator that is closing a door to reverse direction of the door, returns the door to, and stops the door at the fully open position, and the sensor prevents an operator from closing an open door,
(iii) An inherent door sensor independent of the system used to comply with § 1211.7 that, when activated, results in an operator that is closing a door to reverse direction of the door and the sensor prevents an operator from closing an open door, or
(iv) Any other external or internal device that provides entrapment protection equivalent to paragraph (a)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(2) The door operator is not required to return the door to, and stop the door at, the fully open position when an inherent entrapment circuit senses an obstruction during the opening travel.
(3) The door operator is not required to return the door to, and stop the door at, the fully open position when a control is actuated to stop the door during the opening travel—but the door cannot be moved towards the closing direction until the operator has reversed the door a minimum of 2 inches (50.8 mm).
(b) For horizontal sliding garage door operators, a secondary entrapment protection device supplied with, or as an accessory to, an operator shall consist of:
(1) An external photoelectric sensor that, when activated, results in an operator that is closing or opening a door to reverse direction of the door for a minimum of 2 inches (50.8 mm); or
(2) An external edge sensor installed on the edge of the door that, when activated as tested per § 1211.12 (a)(4)(2), results in an operator that is closing or opening a door to reverse direction of the door for a minimum of 2 inches (50.8 mm).
(c) With respect to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the operator shall monitor for the presence and correct operation of the device at least once during each close cycle. Should the device not be present or a fault condition occurs which precludes the sensing of an obstruction, including an interruption of the wireless signal to the wireless device or an open or short circuit in the wiring that connects an external entrapment protection device to the operator and device's supply source, the operator shall be constructed such that:
(1) For a vertically moving door, the closing door shall open and an open door shall not close more than 1 foot (305 mm) below the upmost position;
(2) For a horizontally sliding door, the door shall not move in the opening or closing direction; or
(3) The operator shall function as required by § 1211.6(b)(1).
(d) An external entrapment protection device or system, when employing a wireless control, shall comply with paragraph (e) of this section when installed at its farthest distance from the operator as recommended in the installation instructions.
(e) An external entrapment protection device shall comply with the applicable requirements in §§ 1211.10, 1211.11, and 1211.12.
(f) An inherent secondary entrapment protection device described in § 1211.6(b)(3) shall comply with the applicable requirements in § 1211.13. Software used in an inherent entrapment protection device shall comply with UL 1998 (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40).
[81 FR 20230, Apr. 7, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 32569, July 13, 2018]
§ 1211.9
Additional entrapment protection requirements.
(a) A means to manually detach the door operator from the door shall be supplied. The gripping surface (handle) shall be colored red and shall be easily
distinguishable from the rest of the operator. It shall be capable of being adjusted to a height of 6 feet (1.8 m) above the garage floor when the operator is installed according to the instructions specified in § 1211.16(a)(2). The means shall be constructed so that a hand firmly gripping it and applying a maximum of 50 pounds (223 N) of force shall detach the operator with the door obstructed in the down position. The obstructing object, as described in § 1211.7(b)(3)(i), is to be located in several different positions. A marking with instructions for detaching the operator shall be provided as required by § 1211.17(a), (b), and (j), as applicable.
(b) A means to manually detach the door operator from the door is not required for a door operator that is not directly attached to the door and that controls movement of the door so that:
(1) The door is capable of being moved open from any position other than the last (closing) 2 inches (50.8 mm) of travel, and
(2) The door is capable of being moved to the 2-inch (50.8-mm) point from any position between closed and the 2-inch (50.8-mm) point.
(c) Actuation of a control that initiates movement of a door shall stop and may reverse the door on the closing cycle. On the opening cycle, actuation of a control shall stop the door but not reverse it.
(d) An operator shall be constructed so that adjustment of limit, force or other user controls and connection of external entrapment protection devices can be accomplished without exposing normally enclosed live parts or wiring.
[57 FR 60455, Dec. 21, 1992, as amended at 65 FR 70658, Nov. 27, 2000; 81 FR 20231, Apr. 7, 2016]
§ 1211.10
Requirements for all entrapment protection devices.
(a)
General requirements.
(1) An external entrapment protection device shall perform its intended function when tested in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section.
(2) The device is to be installed in the intended manner and its terminals connected to circuits of the door operator as indicated by the installation instructions.
(3) The device is to be installed and tested at minimum and maximum heights and widths representative of recommended ranges specified in the installation instructions. For doors, if not specified, devices are to be tested on a minimum 7 foot (2.1 m) wide door and maximum 20 foot (6.1 m) wide door.
(4) If powered by a separate source of power, the power-input supply terminals are to be connected to supply circuits of rated voltage and frequency.
(5) An external entrapment protection device requiring alignment, such as a photoelectric sensor, shall be provided with a means, such as a visual indicator, to show proper alignment and operation of the device.
(b)
Current protection test.
(1) There shall be no damage to the entrapment protection circuitry if low voltage field-wiring terminals or leads are shortened or miswired to adjacent terminals.
(2) To determine compliance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, an external entrapment protection device is to be connected to a door operator or other source of power in the intended manner, after which all connections to low voltage terminals or leads are to be reversed as pairs, reversed individually, or connected to any low voltage lead or adjacent terminal.
(3) After restoring the connections in the intended manner:
(i) A photoelectric sensor shall comply with the Normal Operation tests per § 1211.11(a) through (c); and
(ii) An edge sensor shall comply with the applicable Normal Operation test, per § 1211.12(a).
(c)
Splash test.
(1) An external entrapment protection device intended to be installed inside a garage 3 feet or less above the floor shall withstand a water exposure as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section without resulting in a risk of electric shock and shall function as intended, per paragraph (c)(3) of this section. After exposure, the external surface of the device may be dried before determining its functionality.
(2) External entrapment protection devices are to be indirectly sprayed using a hose having the free end fitted with a nozzle as illustrated in Figure 2 to subpart A and connected to a water
supply capable of maintaining a flow rate of 5 gallons (19 liters) per minute as measured at the outlet orifice of the nozzle. The water from the hose is to be played, from all sides and at any angle against the floor under the device in such a manner most likely to cause water to splash the enclosure of electric components. However, the nozzle is not to be brought closer than 10 feet (3.05 m) horizontally to the device. The water is to be sprayed for 1 minute.
(3) After drying the external surface of the device:
(i) A photoelectric sensor shall comply with the Normal Operation Tests per § 1211.11(a) through (c); and
(ii) An edge sensor shall comply with the applicable Normal Operation Test, per § 1211.12(a).
(iii) There shall be no water on uninsulated live parts of a line voltage circuit.
(d)
Ultraviolet light exposure test.
A polymeric material used as a functional part of a device that is exposed to outdoor weather conditions shall comply with the Ultraviolet Light Exposure Test described in UL 746C (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40).
(e)
Resistance to impact test.
(1) An external entrapment protection device employing a polymeric or elastomeric material as a functional part shall be subjected to the impact test specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. As a result of the test:
(i) There shall be no cracking or breaking of the part; and
(ii) The part shall operate as intended, per paragraph (e)(4) of this section at room temperature, or, if dislodged after the test, but not cracked or broken, is capable of being restored to its original condition. Exception: If a part is cracked or broken, as an alternative, it may be subjected to the Splash Tests, per paragraph (c) of this section, after the impact test. After the water exposure tests, the device shall either:
(A) Operate as intended per paragraph (e)(4) of this section; or
(B) Shut down safely (
i.e.
provide an obstruction signal to the door).
(2) Samples of the external entrapment protection device are to be subjected to the Resistance to Impact Test described in UL 746C (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40). The external entrapment protection device is to be subjected to 5 foot-pound (6.8 J) impacts. Three samples are to be tested, each sample being subjected to three impacts at different points.
(3) In lieu of conducting the room temperature test described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, each of three samples of a device exposed to outdoor weather when the door is in the closed position are to be cooled to a temperature of minus 31.0 ±3.6 °F (minus 35.0 ±2.0 °C) and maintained at this temperature for 3 hours. Three samples of a device employed inside the garage are to be cooled to a temperature of 32.0 °F (0.0 °C) and maintained at this temperature for 3 hours. While the sample is still cold, the samples shall be subject to the test described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, and shall comply with paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section. After determining compliance with paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, the sample shall be allowed to return to room temperature, and then shall comply with paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
(4) To determine compliance with paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section:
(i) A photoelectric sensor shall comply with the Normal Operation tests per § 1211.11(a) through (c); and
(ii) An edge sensor shall comply with the applicable Normal Operation Test, per § 1211.12(a).
(f)
External entrapment protection devices with wireless control
—(1)
Initial test set-up.
(i) For a wireless device intended to be powered by a non-rechargeable battery, a fully charged battery shall be installed per the instructions or markings on the product. See § 1211.16 (a)(7).
(ii) An entrapment protection device or system employing a wireless control, or separately supplied for, shall be installed per the manufacturer's instructions.
(2)
Radiated immunity test.
(i) An external entrapment protection device when employing wireless control shall operate as specified in § 1211.8(a) through (e) as applicable; or is rendered inoperative (any case in which the operator will not complete a full cycle, open and close, of travel) when tested
in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section.
(ii) Compliance to paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section is verified by simulating an obstruction during the period of the electric field strength test of § 1211.4(c).
(g)
Battery test for wireless devices.
(1) An external entrapment protection device when employing a battery powered wireless control shall operate as specified in § 1211.8(a) through (e) as applicable; or is rendered inoperative (any case in which the operator will not complete a full cycle, open and close, of travel) when tested in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(2) Compliance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be verified with battery charge at the following levels:
(i) Fully charged; and
(ii) Discharged per the manufacturer's recommendations to the wireless device's lowest operational voltage.
(3) An external entrapment protection device employing a battery powered wireless device operating under conditions with a fully discharged battery or when the battery is discharged sufficiently to cause the device or system to render the moving door inoperative, shall be considered a single point fault for complying with §§ 1211.5(b) and 1211.8(c).
(h)
Ambient light test for wireless device with IR communication.
(1) An external entrapment protection device, when employing an IR communication shall operate as specified in § 1211.8(a) through (e) as applicable; or is rendered inoperative (any case in which the operator will not complete a full cycle, open and close, of travel) when subjected to ambient light impinging at an angle of 15 to 20 degrees from the axis of the beam when tested in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(2) An external entrapment protection device when employing an IR communication shall be set up at maximum range per paragraph (h)(1) of this section. The ambient light test described in § 1211.11(e)(2) shall be conducted with the light source impinging on each IR receiver, one at a time that is part of the wireless control system between the external entrapment protection device and the operator.
[81 FR 20231, Apr. 7, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 32569, July 13, 2018]
§ 1211.11
Requirements for photoelectric sensors.
(a)
Normal operation test.
When installed as described in § 1211.10(a)(1) through (4), a photoelectric sensor of a vertically moving door shall sense an obstruction as described in paragraph (c) of this section that is to be placed on the floor at three points over the width of the door opening, at distances of 1 foot (305 mm) from each end and the midpoint.
(b)
Normal operation test—Horizontally moving door.
When installed as described in § 1211.10(a)(1) through (4), a photoelectric sensor of a horizontally moving door shall be tested per paragraph (c) of this section that is to be placed on a level surface within the path of the moving door. The sensor is to be tested with the obstruction at a total of five different locations over the height of the door. The locations shall include distances 1 in (25.4 mm) from each end, 1 ft (305 mm) from each end, and the midpoint.
(c)
Normal operation test—Obstruction.
The obstruction noted in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall consist of a white vertical surface 6 inches (152 mm) high by 12 inches (305 mm) long. The obstruction is to be centered in the opening perpendicular to the plane of the door when in the closed position. See Figure 3 to subpart A.
(d)
Sensitivity test.
(1) When installed as described in § 1211.10(a)(1) through (4), a photoelectric sensor shall sense the presence of a moving object when tested according to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) The moving object is to consist of a 1
7/8
inch (47.6 mm) diameter cylindrical rod, 34
1/2
inches (876 mm) long, with the axis point being 34 inches (864 mm) from the end. The axis point is to be fixed at a point centered directly above the beam of the photoelectric sensor 36 inches (914 mm) above the level surface below the door. The rod is to be swung as a pendulum through the photoelectric sensor's beam from a position 45 degrees from the plane of the
door when in the closed position. See figure 4 to this subpart.
(3) The test described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section is to be conducted at three points over the width of the door opening, at distances of 1 foot (305 mm) from each end and the midpoint.
(4) When the test fixture of Figure 4 to subpart A, prior to conduct of the test, interferes with the photoelectric sensor detection zone, the tests per paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section may be conducted instead per paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
(e)
Ambient light test.
(1) A photoelectric sensor shall operate as specified in § 1211.8(a) and (c) when subjected to ambient light impinging at an angle of 15 to 20 degrees from the axis of the beam when tested according to paragraph (e)(2) of this section and, if appropriate, paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) To determine compliance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a 500 watt incandescent or equivalent minimum rated, 3600K or lower color rated flood lamp is to be energized from a 120-volt, 60-hertz source. The lamp is to be positioned 5 feet from the front of the receiver and aimed directly at the sensor at an angle of 15 to 20 degrees from the axis of the beam. See Figure 5 to subpart A.
(3) If the photoelectric sensor uses a reflector, this test is to be repeated with the lamp aimed at the reflector.
(4) During the test conditions described in paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section, a photoelectric sensor shall comply with the normal operation test requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section, and
(i) A photoelectric sensor shall comply with sensitivity test requirements described in paragraph (d) of this section, and
(ii) An edge sensor shall comply with the normal operation test requirements described in § 1211.12.
(f)
Photoelectric sensor vertical arrays.
(1) A vertical array shall be tested as required by paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, except as noted in paragraphs (f)(2) through (5) of this section.
(2) The array shall comply with the Normal Operation tests specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, with the solid obstruction placed on the floor. In addition, the obstruction shall be placed at various locations over the height of the light curtain array in accordance with the light curtain coverage area per the manufacturer's instructions.
(3) In conducting the tests specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, when the product includes a blanking function whereby the light array is located directly in-line with the path of the door travel, and the door system is intended to detect any obstruction other than one in the “next” successive position that the door is programmed to travel, the obstruction is placed at any location other than the next successive door position expected by the system.
(4) The array shall comply with the Sensitivity Test specified in paragraph (d) of this section, except that the edge of the pendulum nearest to the array is to be located 2 in. (50.8 mm) from one side of the plane of the array, rather than directly above one photoelectric sensor pair. For vertical arrays, this test need only be conducted with the test pendulum at the vertical height indicated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(5) When conducting the Ambient Light Test specified in paragraph (e) of this section, the position of the light source shall be aligned per paragraph (e)(2) of this section based on the axis of the lowest beam or detection zone. This arrangement shall be used to determine compliance with the requirements specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section (with the obstruction at the floor level) and paragraph (f)(4) of this section, which are the only conditions for which the ambient light is required to be applied.
[81 FR 20232, Apr. 7, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 18540, Mar. 14, 2024]
§ 1211.12
Requirements for edge sensors.
(a)
Normal operation test.
(1) When installed on a representative residential door edge, an edge sensor shall actuate upon the application of a 15 pounds (66.7 N) or less force in the direction of the application. For an edge sensor intended to be used on a sectional door,
the force is to be applied by the longitudinal edge of a 1
7/8
inch (47.6 mm) diameter cylinder placed across the switch so that the axis is perpendicular to the plane of the door. For an edge sensor intended to be used on a one piece door, the force is to be applied so that the axis is at an angle 30 degrees from the direction perpendicular to the plane of the door. See figure 6 to subpart A.
(2) With respect to the test of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the test is to be repeated at various representative points of the edge sensor across the width of the door.
(3) Exception: The edge sensor need not be sensitive to actuation two inches (50.4 mm) or less from each end of the intended width of the door opening.
(4)(i) An edge sensor, when installed on a representative door, shall actuate upon the application of a 15 lbf (66.7 N) or less force in the direction of the application when tested at room temperature 25 °C ± 2 °C (77 °F ± 3.6 °F) and, additionally, when intended for use exposed to outdoor temperature, shall actuate at 40 lbf (177.9 N) or less force when tested at −35 °C ± 2 °C (−31 °F ± 3.6 °F).
(A) For an edge sensor intended to be used on a sectional door, the force is to be applied by the longitudinal edge of a 1
7/8
in (47.6 mm) diameter cylinder placed across the sensor so that the axis is perpendicular to plane of the door. See Figures 6A and 6B to this subpart.
(B) For an edge sensor intended to be used on a one-piece door, or swinging door, the force is to be applied so that the axis is at an angle 30 degrees from the direction perpendicular to the plane of the door. See figures 6C and 6D to this subpart.
(C) For an edge sensor that wraps around the leading edge of a swinging one-piece door, providing activation in both directions of travel, the force is to be applied so that the axis is at an angle 30 degrees from the direction perpendicular to both the closing direction and the opening direction. See Figure 6E to this subpart.
(ii) With respect to the Edge Sensor Test specified in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, the test is to be repeated at various representative points of the edge sensor across the length of the edge sensor. See Figures 6F and 6G to this subpart.
(5)
Residential garage door operators.
(i) For vertically moving residential garage door operators intended to be used with an external edge sensor, with reference to 32.3.1(b), a 1
5/8
in by 3
1/2
in (41.3 mm by 88.9 mm) solid rectangular object not less than 6 in (152 mm) long is to be fixed in an immobile position at the fully closed position with the longitudinal axis perpendicular to the edge of the door. The 1
5/8
in (41.3 mm) side of the obstruction facing the leading edge is to contact the moving door at various points along the width of the door. See Figure 6H to this subpart.
(ii) For horizontally moving residential garage door operators intended to be used with an external edge sensor, with reference to 32.3.2(b), a 1
5/8
in by 3
1/2
in (41.3 mm by 88.9 mm) solid rectangular object not less than 6 in (152 mm) long is to be fixed in an immobile position with the longitudinal axis perpendicular to the edge of the door. The 1
5/8
in (41.3 mm) side of the obstruction facing the leading edge is to contact the moving door at various points along the leading edge of the door. The same object is then to be arranged to contact the moving door at various points along the trailing edge of the door. See Figure 6I to this subpart.
(b)
Endurance test.
An edge sensor system and associated components shall withstand 30,000 cycles of mechanical operation without failure. For this test, the edge sensor is to be cycled by the repetitive application of the force as described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section except with a 15lbf (66.7 N) or greater, and at room temperature only. The force is to be applied to the same location for the entire test. All intended uses are to be tested. For an edge sensor system employing integral electric contact strips, this test shall be conducted with the contacts connected to a load no less severe than it controls in the operator. For the last 50 cycles of operation, the sensor shall function as intended when connected to an operator. After the 30,000 cycle test the normal operation test shall be repeated.
(c)
Elastomeric material conditioning test.
(1) An elastomeric material used
as a functional part of an edge sensor shall function as intended when subjected to:
(i) Accelerated Aging Test of Gaskets, stated in paragraph (c)(3) of this section,
(ii) Compliance to the Standard for Gaskets and Seals, UL 157, fulfills this requirement (see paragraph (c)(2) of this section for UL contact information); and
(iii) Puncture Resistance Test, stated in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) An elastomeric material used for a functional part that is exposed to outdoor weather conditions when the door is in the closed position shall have physical properties as specified in the table to subpart A after being conditioned in accordance with the Ultraviolet Light Exposure Test described in UL 746C (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40).
(3) Rubber compounds forming gaskets that are depended upon for protection from rain shall have physical properties as specified in table 1, before and after conditioning for 168 hours in an air-circulating oven at 70 °C (158 °F).
(d)
Puncture resistance test.
(1) After being subjected to the tests described in paragraph (d)(2) or (3) of this section, an elastomeric material that is a functional part of an edge sensor shall:
(i) Not be damaged in a manner that would adversely affect the intended operation of the edge sensor, and
(ii) Maintain enclosure integrity if it serves to reduce the likelihood of contamination of electrical contacts.
(2) For a vertically moving door, a sample of the edge sensor is to be installed in the intended manner on a representative door edge. The probe described in figure 7 to subpart A is to be applied with a 20 pound-force (89 N) to any point on the sensor that is 3 inches (76 mm) or less above the floor is to be applied in the direction specified in the Edge Sensor Normal Operation Test, Figure 6A or 6C to subpart A as applicable. The test is to be repeated on three locations on each surface of the sensor being tested.
(3) For horizontally sliding doors, sample of the edge sensor is to be installed in the intended manner on a representative door edge. The probe described in figure 7 to subpart A is to be applied with a 20 lbf (89 N) to any point on the sensor when the door is within 3 in (76 mm) of its fully open position and within 3 in (76 mm) of any stationary wall. For each type of door, the force is to be applied in the direction specified in the Edge Sensor Normal Operation Test, Figure 6B to subpart A. The test is to be repeated on three locations on each surface of the sensor being tested.
[57 FR 60455, Dec. 21, 1992, as amended at 62 FR 46667, Sept. 4, 1997; 65 FR 70659, Nov. 27, 2000; 81 FR 20233, Apr. 7, 2016; 83 FR 32569, July 13, 2018; 89 FR 18540, Mar. 14, 2024]
§ 1211.13
Inherent force activated secondary door sensors.
(a)
General.
(1) A force activated door sensor of a door system installed according to the installation instructions shall actuate in accordance with paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, which are to be conducted in sequence on a single system sample, except for the separate test sequences of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) The system shall actuate with the maximum and minimum specifications of the door, operator, and hardware.
(3) Tests conducted per paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section shall be performed with the force exerted by a drive adjusted to its highest value if the force can be adjusted by the user during use or user maintenance.
(4) The test cylinder referred to in paragraph (b)(7) of this section shall be a 1
7/8
in (47.6 mm) diameter cylinder placed under the door so that the axis is perpendicular to the plane of the door. See figure 6A to subpart A.
(5) The measuring device referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall:
(i) Have an accuracy of ±1%;
(ii) Have a rise and fall time not exceeding 5 ms;
(iii) Have the equivalence of a spring constant of 2855 lb/in ±285 lb/in (500 N/mm, ±50 N/mm);
(iv) Be placed on a rigid, level surface; and
(v) Have a rigid plate with a diameter of 3.1 in (80 mm).
(vi) See paragraph (a)(6) of this section for test equipment alternatives for force measurements at 1 ft (305 mm) or greater for the tests conducted per paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section.
(6) With regard to the alternative test equipment referred to in paragraph (a)(5)(vi) of this section, the test device described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section for force measurements at 1 foot (305 mm) or greater shall be:
(i) A spring constant means such as specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section;
(ii) A gravity based weight displacing means that suspends a weight off its supporting surface upon exceeding 15 lbf (67 N) such as the example shown in figures 8 through 10 of this subpart if the equipment described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section is applied before the tests specified in paragraph (c) of this section and after the tests specified in paragraph (d) of this section at the 1 ft (305 mm) height specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section; or
(iii) The equivalent requirements of paragraphs (a)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(7) The cycles specified in paragraph (d) of this section are not required to be consecutive. Continuous operation of the motor without cooling is not required.
(b)
Closing force test.
(1) The door shall stop and reverse within 2 seconds after contacting the obstruction. The door shall apply the following forces at the locations noted in paragraph (b)(2) of this section:
(i) 90 lbf (400 N) or less average during the first 0.75 seconds after 15 lbf (67 N) is exceeded from initial impact; and
(ii) 15 lbf (67 N) or less from 0.75 seconds after 15 lbf (67 N) is exceeded from initial impact until the door reverses.
(2) The test referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be conducted at the following test height and locations along the edge of the door:
(i) The center point, at a height of 2 in (50.8) from the floor;
(ii) Within 1 ft (305 mm) of the end of the door, at a height of 2 in (50.8) from the floor; and
(iii) Within 1 ft (305 mm) of the other end of the door, at a height of 2 in (50.8) from the floor.
(3) The maximum force specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be tested by the door applying a force against the longitudinal edge of the test cylinder described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(4) The equipment used to measure force for the test described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(5) The door shall stop and reverse within 2 seconds after contacting the obstruction. The door shall apply a load of 15 lbf (67 N) or less in the closing direction along the path of door travel at the locations noted in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(6) The test described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall be conducted at the following points along the edge of the door:
(i) At the center at heights of 1 ft, 3 ft, and 5 ft (305 mm, 914 mm and 1.52 m) from the floor;
(ii) Within 1 ft (305 mm) of the end of the door, at heights of 1 ft, 3 ft, and 5 ft from the floor; and
(iii) Within 1 ft of the other end of the door at heights of 1 ft, 3 ft, and 5 ft from the floor.
(7) The maximum force described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall be tested by the door applying a force against the longitudinal edge of the test cylinder as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(8) The equipment used to measure forces for the test described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) or (6) of this section.
(c)
Opening force test.
(1) The door shall stop within 2 seconds after a weight of 44 lb (20 kg) is applied to the door.
(2) The test described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be conducted with the door starting from the fully closed position and at heights of approximately 1 ft, 3 ft, and 5 ft (305 mm, 914 mm and 1.52 m) from the floor.
(3) Test weight(s) shall be applied to sections of the door that are vertical in the initial stopped position for each test height prior to operator activation.
(d)
Fifty cycle test.
(1) With the door(s) at the test point(s) determined by the tests described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section to be most severe with respect to both reversal time and force, the door system shall function as intended after 50 cycles of operation. After the last cycle, the system shall
complete one additional cycle of opening the door to its fully open condition and closing the door to its fully closed position.
(2) The tests described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be repeated upon completion of cycling test.
(e)
Adjustment of door weight.
At the point determined by the test described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section to be the most severe, weight is to be added to the door in 5.0 pound (2.26 Kg) increments and the tests of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are to be repeated until a total of 15.0 pounds (66.72 N) has been added to the door. Before performing each test cycle, the door is to be cycled 2 times to update the profile. Similarly, starting from normal weight plus 15.0 pounds, the tests described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are to be repeated by subtracting weight in 5.0 pound increments until a total of 15.0 pounds has been subtracted from the door.
(f)
Obstruction test.
For a door traveling in the downward direction, when an inherent secondary entrapment protection device senses an obstruction and initiates a reversal, any control activation shall not move the door downward until the operator reverses the door a minimum of 2 inches (50.8 mm). The test is to be performed as described in § 1211.7(b)(3)(iii). The system may be initially manually re-profiled for the purpose of this test.
[81 FR 20233, Apr. 7, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 32570, July 13, 2018]
§ 1211.14
Unattended operation requirements.
(a)
General requirements.
(1) A residential garage door operator or system may permit unattended operation to close a garage door, provided the operator system complies with the additional requirements of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.
(2) Unattended operation shall not be permitted on one-piece garage doors or swinging garage doors. An operator intended for use with both sectional doors and one-piece or swinging doors that have an unattended operation close feature shall identify that the unattended operation closing feature is only permitted to be enabled when installed with a sectional door by complying with:
(i) The installation instructions stated in § 1211.16(b)(1)(ii);
(ii) The markings specified in § 1211.17(h); and
(iii) The carton markings specified in § 1211.18(m) when the carton references the unattended operation close feature.
(b)
Operator system.
The operator system shall require one or more intentional actions to enable unattended operation, such as setting a power head switch or wall-control switch. For an accessory requiring installation and set-up in order to enable unattended operation, the installation and set-up may be considered satisfying this requirement.
(c)
Alarm signal.
(1) The operator system shall provide an audible and visual alarm signal.
(2) The alarm shall signal for a minimum of 5 seconds before any unattended closing door movement.
(3) The audible signal shall be heard within the confines of a garage. The audio alarm signals for the alarm specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be generated by devices such as bells, horns, sirens, or buzzers. The signal shall have a frequency in the range of 700 to 3400 Hz, either a cycle of the sound level pulsations of 4 to 5 per second or one continuous tone, a sound level at least 45 dB 10 ft (305 cm) in front of the device over the voltage range of operation.
(4) The visual alarm signal described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be visible within the confines of a garage using a flashing light of at least 40 watt incandescent or 360 lumens. The flash rate shall be at least once per second, with a duration of 100 ms to 900 ms, for the duration of the alarm.
(d)
Controls.
(1) During the pre-motion signaling period defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, activation of any user door control (e.g., wall control, wireless remote, keypad) shall prevent the pending unattended door movement. Door movement resulting from activation of a user door control is not prohibited.
(2) Upon activation of a user door control during unattended door movement, the door shall stop, and may reverse the door on the closing cycle. On
the opening cycle, activation of a user door control shall stop the door but not reverse it.
(3) If an unattended door travelling in the closing direction is stopped and reversed by an entrapment protection device, the operator system shall be permitted one additional unattended operation attempt to close the door.
(4) After two attempts per paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the operator system shall suspend unattended operation. The operator system shall require a renewed, intended input, via user door control (e.g., wall control wireless remote, keypad) other than the unattended activation device, prior to re-enabling unattended operation.
(e)
Entrapment protection.
For a moving door, entrapment protection shall comply with §§ 1211.7 and 1211.8.
(f)
Unattended operation control accessory
—(1)
General.
A residential garage door operator control accessory shall be permitted to be supplied separate from the operator, and may permit unattended operation to close a garage door, provided the control accessory complies with the additional requirements of paragraphs (f)(2) through (6) of this section. Exception: Unattended operation shall not be permitted on one-piece garage doors or swinging garage doors. A control accessory that has an unattended operation close feature shall identify that the unattended operation closing feature is only permitted to be enabled when installed with a sectional door by complying with:
(i) The installation instructions of § 1211.16 (b)(1)(ii);
(ii) The markings of § 1211.17(h); and
(iii) the carton markings of § 1211.18(m).
(2)
Operator system.
The control accessory shall require one or more intentional actions to enable unattended operation to function when connected to an operator system, such as setting a power head switch or wall-control switch. For an accessory requiring installation and set-up in order to enable unattended operation, the installation and set-up may be considered satisfying this requirement.
(3)
Alarm signal.
(i) The control accessory alone or in combination with the operator system shall provide an audible and visual alarm signal.
(ii) The alarm shall signal for a minimum of 5 seconds before any unattended closing door movement, or before any door movement if the next direction of door travel cannot be determined.
(iii) The audible signal shall be heard within the confines of a garage. The audio alarm signals for the alarm specified in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section shall be generated by devices such as bells, horns, sirens, or buzzers. The signal shall have a frequency in the range of 700 to 3400 Hz, either a cycle of the sound level pulsations of 4 to 5 per second or one continuous tone, a sound level at least 45 dB 10 ft (305 cm) in front of the device over the voltage range of operation.
(iv) The visual alarm signal of paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section shall be visible within the confines of a garage using a flashing light of at least 40 watt incandescent or 360 lumens.
(v) When the visual alarm or the audio alarm, or both, are external to the control accessory and are not part of main operator unit, the control accessory shall monitor for the connection of and proper operation of both the visual and audible alarms, prior to initiating door travel.
(4)
Controls.
(i) During the pre-motion signaling period defined in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section, activation of any user door control (
e.g.
wall control, wireless remote, keypad) shall prevent the pending unattended door movement. Door movement resulting from activation of a user door control is not prohibited.
(ii) Upon activation of a user door control during unattended door movement:
(A) The operator shall function in the same manner as if the control accessory were not present;
(B) The control accessory shall not interfere with, override, or alter the normal operation of the operator; and
(C) The door shall stop, and may reverse the door on the closing cycle. On the opening cycle, activation of a user door control shall stop the door but not reverse it.
(iii) If an unattended door travelling in the closing direction is stopped and
reversed by an entrapment protection device, the control accessory alone or in combination with the operator system shall be permitted one additional unattended operation attempt to close the door.
(iv) After two attempts per paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the control accessory alone or in combination with the operator system shall suspend unattended operation. The control accessory alone or in combination with the operator system shall require a renewed, intended input, via user door control (
e.g.,
wall control, wireless remote, keypad) other than the unattended activation device, prior to re-enabling unattended operation.
(5)
Entrapment protection.
(i) The control accessory shall not interfere with, override, or alter any entrapment protection features of the operator or system per §§ 1211.7 and 1211.8. A control accessory that only provides a momentary signal (wired or wireless) to start the door is considered to comply with this requirement.
(ii) A control accessory shall only be used with an operator when the combination of the operator and the control accessory comply with the applicable entrapment protection features including:
(A) Inherent Primary Entrapment Protection, in accordance with § 1211.7;
(B) Secondary Entrapment Protection, in accordance with § 1211.8.
(iii) A control accessory shall be marked to indicate “For use only with garage door operators complying with UL 325, manufactured after ____,” or, “For use only with the following garage door operators:____.” The date (
e.g.,
“1993,” “February 21, 2008”), or the additional information provided in the blank shall be added by the accessory manufacturer such that the combination of the control and operator(s) it is intended for use with complies with paragraph (f)(5)(ii) of this section. This marking shall appear on the packaging and on the product, and shall be repeated in the instructions accompanying the accessory.
(iv) To comply with paragraph (f)(5)(ii) of this section a control accessory shall comply with one or more of the following:
(A) Not be capable of operating when connected to an operator that is not compliant with paragraph (f)(5)(ii) of this section;
(B) Be restricted to function only with specific operators, such that the combination of the control and the operator are compliant with paragraph (f)(5)(ii) of this section;
(C) Provide additional functionality to an operator or system such that when operating via the control accessory, the combination of the control accessory and the operator complies with paragraph (f)(5)(ii) of this section;
(D) Be marked to indicate as indicated in paragraph (f)(5)(ii) of this section.
(6)
Instructions and markings.
(i) The control accessory shall be provided with instructions as follows:
(A) Instructions per § 1211.16, as applicable.
(B) Instructions that repeat any warning or cautionary product markings and field labels required below.
(ii) The control accessory shall be provided with markings as follows:
(A) Markings on the product per § 1211.18, as applicable.
(B) In lieu of § 1211.18(m), the product package shall be marked with the following or equivalent:
“WARNING: To reduce the risk of injury to persons—Only enable [+] feature when installed with sectional door.”, where + is the unattended operation closing function, or “WARNING: To reduce the risk of injury to persons—Do not use this device with one-piece doors or swinging doors.”
(C) On the package or the product—any other markings related to use of the control with specific operators, per paragraph (f)(5)(iii) of this section.
(iii) The control accessory shall be provided with a label for field installation as required by § 1211.17(c) through (g), including but not limited to § 1211.17(g)(2)(v).
[81 FR 20234, Apr. 7, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 32570, July 13, 2018]
§ 1211.15
Vertically moving combination rigid one-piece overhead residential garage door and operator system.
(a) A vertically moving combination rigid one-piece overhead residential garage door and operator system shall comply with the applicable residential garage door operator requirements in this standard and shall additionally comply with the following:
(1) The speed of the door edge during the opening or closing motion shall not exceed 6 in (152 mm) per second.
(2) The system shall be supplied with two additional independent secondary entrapment protection devices complying with Secondary Entrapment Protection, § 1211.8. When photoelectric sensors are used, a minimum of two sensors in addition to a third secondary device shall be supplied. The instructions shall state that one photoelectric sensor shall be positioned to comply with § 1211.11 and the other(s) shall be positioned on the left and right sides of the door to detect solid objects that would be within the space where the door moves as it opens or closes.
(3) A means to manually detach both door operators from the door shall be provided. For systems where the mechanical drive is located on a wall adjacent to the door, the manual detachment means is not required to comply with § 1211.9(a). Instead, the manual detachment means shall be located 5 ft (1.52 m) above the floor, shall not require a torque of more than 5 ft-lb (6.78 N-m) to initiate disconnection when the door is obstructed, and shall be clearly marked with operating instructions adjacent to the mechanism. The gripping surface (handle) shall be colored red and shall be distinguishable from the rest of the operator. The marking which includes instructions for detaching the operator shall be provided in accordance with § 1211.17(a), (b), and (j) as applicable.
(4) A means (interlock) shall be supplied to de-energize the operator whenever the operator is manually detached from the door.
(5) A means (interlock) shall be supplied to de-energize the operator whenever an operable window or access (service) door that is mounted in the garage door is opened perpendicular to the surface of the garage door.
(6) The door shall not move outward from the exterior wall surface during the opening or closing cycle.
(7) The moving parts of the door or door system (mounting hardware, track assembly, and components that make up the door) shall be guarded.
(8) A horizontal track assembly, including installation hardware, shall support a dead load equal to the door weight when the door is in the horizontal position.
(9) Instructions for the installation of operable windows and access (service) doors and the interlocks specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section shall be supplied with the operator.
(b) [Reserved]
[81 FR 20235, Apr. 7, 2016]
§ 1211.16
Instruction manual.
(a)
General.
(1) A residential garage door operator shall be provided with an instruction manual. The instruction manual shall give complete instructions for the installation, operation, and user maintenance of the operator.
(2) Instructions that clearly detail installation and adjustment procedures required to effect proper operation of the safety means provided shall be provided with each door operator.
(3) A residential garage door or door operator shall be provided with complete and specific instructions for the correct adjustment of the control mechanism and the need for periodic checking and, if needed, adjustment of the control mechanism so as to maintain satisfactory operation of the door.
(4) The instruction manual shall include the important instructions specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. All required text shall be legible and contrast with the background. Upper case letters of required text shall be no less than
5/64
inch (2.0 mm) high and lower case letters shall be no less than
1/16
inch (1.6 mm) high. Heading such as “Important Installation Instructions,” “Important Safety Instructions,” “Save These Instructions” and the words “Warning—To reduce the risk of severe injury or death to persons:” shall be in letters no less than
3/16
inch (4.8 mm) high.
(5) The instructions listed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section shall be in the exact words specified or shall be in equally definitive terminology to those specified. No substitutes shall be used for the word “Warning.” The items may be numbered. The first and last items specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be first and last respectively. Other important and precautionary items considered appropriate by the manufacturer may be inserted.
(6) The instructions listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be located immediately prior to the installation instructions. The instructions listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be located immediately prior to user operation and maintenance instructions. In each case, the instructions shall be separate in format from other detailed instructions related to installation, operation and maintenance of the operator. All instructions, except installation instructions, shall be a permanent part of the manual(s).
(7) For an operator or system provided with an external entrapment protection device requiring a non-rechargeable battery, instructions shall be provided with the operator and/or the device for:
(i) The rating, size, number, and type of battery(s) to be used; and
(ii) The proper insertion, polarity, orientation, and replacement of the battery(s).
(8) For an operator or system provided with an external entrapment protection device or system utilizing wireless control, instructions shall be provided with the operator and/or the device for:
(i) The proper method of configuring and initializing the wireless communication link between device and operator;
(ii) The proper orientation, antenna positioning, and mounting location with regard to maintaining communication link between device and operator;
(iii) The maximum range at which the wireless device will operate; and
(iv) The proper location of the device where the transmission of the signals are not obstructed or impeded by building structures, natural landscaping or similar obstruction.
(9) When provided with a detachable supply cord, the operator instructions shall contain complete details concerning proper selection of the power supply cord replacement.
(10) The installation, operation, and maintenance instructions may be provided in electronic read-only media format only, such as CD-ROM, USB flash drive, or company Web site, if the following instructions are additionally provided with the operator in an instruction sheet, manual, booklet, or similar printed material:
(i) Residential garage doors and door operators, instructions of this section, as applicable.
(ii) [Reserved]
(11) The printed instruction material referenced in this section shall contain detailed instructions of how to obtain a printed copy of the material contained in electronic format.
(12) All printed instruction material referenced in this section shall also be provided in the electronic read-only media format.
(13) Instructions of a combination sectional overhead garage door operator system shall specify:
(i) The operator by manufacturer and model;
(ii) The door(s) by manufacturer(s), model(s), and maximum and minimum door width and height required for compliance to § 1211.6(a) and (c); and
(iii) Hardware required for compliance to § 1211.6(a) and (c).
(14) Installation and maintenance instructions of a combination sectional overhead garage door operator system shall indicate how to properly counter-balance the door.
(b)
Specific required instructions for residential garage door operators and systems.
(1)(i) The Installation Instructions shall include the following instructions:

# Important Installation Instructions
Warning—To reduce the risk of severe injury or death:
1. Read and follow all Installation Instructions.
2. Install only a properly balanced garage door. An improperly balanced door could cause severe injury. Have a qualified service
person make repairs to cables, spring assemblies and other hardware before installing opener.
3. Remove all pull ropes and remove, or make inoperative, all locks connected to the garage door before installing opener.
4. Where possible, install door opener 7 feet or more above the floor. For products requiring an emergency release, mount the emergency release within reach, but at least 6 feet above the floor and avoiding contact with vehicles to avoid accidental release.
5. Do not connect opener to source of power until instructed to do so.
6. Locate control button: (a) Within sight of door, (b) at a minimum height of 5 feet above floors, landings, steps, or any other adjacent walking surface so small children cannot reach it, and (c) away from all moving parts of the door.
7. Install Entrapment Warning Label next to the control button in a prominent location. Install the Emergency Release Marking. Attach the marking on or next to the emergency release.
8. After installing opener, the door must reverse when it contacts a 1
1/2
inch high object (or a 2 by 4 board laid flat) on the floor.
9. For products having a manual release, instruct the end user on the operation of the manual release.
10. For horizontally sliding doors, Item 2 shall be replaced with “Have a qualified service person make repairs and hardware adjustments before installing the opener.”
(ii) In accordance with § 1211.14(a)(2), the installation instructions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for a residential garage door operator intended for use with both sectional and one-piece door that has an unattended operation close feature shall comply with paragraph (b)(1) of this section and include:
“WARNING: To reduce the risk of injury to persons—Only enable [+] feature when installed with a sectional door,” where + is the unattended operation function.
(iii) Exception: For operators that automatically sense one piece door operation, the warning in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section is not required.
(iv) For residential garage door operators that do not have permanent connection of the wiring system, the installation instructions shall include the following or equivalent text:
“This operator not equipped for permanent wiring. Contact licensed electrician to install a suitable receptacle if one is not available.”
(2) The User Instructions shall include the following instructions:

# IMPORTANT SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS
Warning—To reduce the risk of severe injury or death:
1. READ AND FOLLOW ALL INSTRUCTIONS.
2. Never let children operate, or play with door controls. Keep the remote control away from children.
3. Always keep the moving door in sight and away from people and objects until it is completely closed. No one should cross the path of the moving door.
4. NEVER GO UNDER A STOPPED PARTIALLY OPEN DOOR.
5. Test door opener monthly. The garage door MUST reverse on contact with a 1
1/2
inch object (or a 2 by 4 board laid flat) on the floor. After adjusting either the force or the limit of travel, retest the door opener. Failure to adjust the opener properly may cause severe injury or death.
6. For products requiring an emergency release, if possible, use the emergency release only when the door is closed. Use caution when using this release with the door open. Weak or broken springs may allow the door to fall rapidly, causing injury or death.
7. KEEP GARAGE DOOR PROPERLY BALANCE. See user's manual. An improperly balanced door could cause severe injury or death. Have a qualified service person make repairs to cables, spring assemblies and other hardware.
8. For operator systems equipped with an unattended operation feature, the following statement shall be included: “This operator system is equipped with an unattended operation feature. The door could move unexpectedly. NO ONE SHOULD CROSS THE PATH OF THE MOVING DOOR.”
9. SAVE THESE INSTRUCTIONS.
10. For horizontally moving doors, Item 4 shall be replaced with “NEVER GO THROUGH A STOPPED, PARTIALLY OPEN DOOR”.
11. For horizontally moving doors, Item 6 is not required.
12. For horizontally moving doors, Item 7 shall be replaced with “Have a qualified service person make repairs and hardware adjustments before installing the opener.”
13. The installation instructions provided with a combination rigid one-piece overhead residential garage door and operator system shall specify the locations where attachments to the horizontal track shall be made for the purpose of supporting the track.
[81 FR 20235, Apr. 7, 2016]
§ 1211.17
Field-installed labels.
(a) A residential garage door operator shall be provided with labels for field
installation and constructed as specified in paragraphs (c) through (i) of this section. The labels shall be acceptable for permanent installation. The instruction manual shall specify where the labels are to be located.
(b) If labels secured by adhesive are used, the instruction shall specify that an additional mechanical means shall be used to secure the labels to surfaces to which the adhesive will not adhere.
(c) A residential garage door operator shall be provided with a cautionary label intended for permanent installation to identify the possible risk of entrapment. The instruction manual shall direct that the label be affixed near the wall-mounted control button.
(d) The label required in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section shall be in a vertical layout with three panels:
(1) A signal word panel,
(2) A pictorial panel, and
(3) A message panel, with adjacent panels delineated from each other by a horizontal black line. The entire label shall be surrounded by a black border and shall measure at least 5 inches (127 mm) wide by 6
1/4
inches (159 mm) long overall.
(e) The signal word panel as specified in paragraph (d) of this section shall contain the word “WARNING,” in uppercase letters, preceded by a safety alert symbol consisting of an orange exclamation mark on a black solid equilateral triangle background with the point of the triangle oriented upward. The word “WARNING” and the safety alert symbol shall be centered on one line and shall be in black letters at least
7/16
inch (11.1 mm) high on an orange background.
(f) The pictorial panel as specified in paragraph (d) of this section shall be positioned between the signal word panel and the message panel. The pictorial shall be black on a white background and shall clearly depict a child running toward or under a garage door. A red prohibition symbol (slash, oriented from the upper left to the lower right, through a circle) shall be superimposed over, and totally surround, the pictorial. The pictorial shall have an overall diameter of 1-7
1/8
inch (47.6 mm) minimum.
(g) The message panel as specified in paragraph (d) of this section shall include the following text or an equivalent wording:
(1) Possible Risk and Consequence Statement—“There is a risk of a child becoming trapped under an automatic garage door resulting in severe injury or death.”
(2) Avoidance Statements—
(i) “Do not allow children to walk or run under a closing door.”
(ii) “Do not allow children to operate door operator controls.”
(iii) “Always keep a closing door within sight.”
(iv) “In the event a person is trapped under the door, push the control button or use the emergency release.” For products not having an emergency release use instead “In the event a person is trapped under the door, push the control button.”
(v) For products equipped with an unattended operation feature, the instructions shall include the following: “This operator system is equipped with an unattended operation feature. The door could move unexpectedly.”
(3) Instructions—
(i) “Test Door Operator Monthly: Use a 1
1/2
inch thick object placed on the floor under the closing door. In the event the door does not reverse upon contact, adjust, repair, or replace the operator.”
(ii) Additional instructions on not removing or painting over the label, mounting the label adjacent to the wall control, and mounting the wall control out of children's reach shall be provided. These additional instruction shall be in less prominent lettering than those in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section.
(h)(1) In accordance with § 1211.14(a)(2), the instructions of a residential garage door operator intended for use with both sectional doors and either one-piece or swinging doors and are provided with an unattended operation feature shall comply with paragraph (g) of this section and include the following under the avoidance statements of paragraph (g)(2) of this section:
“Only enable [+] feature when installed with a sectional door.”, or equivalent, where
+ is the unattended operation closing function.
(2) For operators that automatically sense one piece door operation, this warning is not required.
(i) The lettering of the message panel described in paragraph (g) of this section shall be black on a white background and shall be sans serif letters in combinations of upper case and lower case letters. The upper case letters of the Possible Risk and Consequence Statements and Avoidance Statements shall be
1/8
inch (3.18 mm) high minimum. The lettering of the Possible Risk and Consequence Statement shall be in italics, underlined, bold, or the like, and shall be double spaced from the Avoidance Statements. All other instructions shall be in letters less prominent than the Possible Risk and Consequence Statements and shall be separated with at least a single space between individual instructions.
(j) Except for door operators complying with § 1211.9(b), a residential garage door operator shall be provided with a cautionary marking attached to or adjacent at all times to the means provided to detach the operator from the garage door. The marking shall include the following statement or the equivalent: “If the door becomes obstructed, detach door from operator as follows: (The method to detach the operator shall be shown on the marking.)”
(k) Both the operator and the door that comprise a combination sectional overhead garage door operator system shall be provided with permanent labels. The labels shall contain the following statement or the equivalent: “WARNING: THIS OPERATOR AND DOOR FUNCTION AS A SYSTEM. IF EITHER THE DOOR OR THE HARDWARE MUST BE REPLACED, THE REPLACEMENT DOOR OR HARDWARE MUST BE IDENTICAL TO THE ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT WITH RESPECT TO MANUFACTURER AND MODEL TO MAINTAIN THE SAFETY OF THE SYSTEM. SEE INSTRUCTION MANUAL.” The marking shall be visible to the user after installation without the need to remove any covers.
(l) A label specified in paragraph (m) of this section when intended to be affixed during installation shall:
(1) Be provided with the operator or door assembly; and
(2) Have installation instructions of how and where to install the label so that it is visible to the user after installation.
(m) The operator of a combination sectional overhead garage door operator system shall be provided with a permanent marking that contains the following statement or the equivalent: “NO USER SERVICEABLE PARTS INSIDE.”
[57 FR 60455, Dec. 21, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 65 FR 70659, Nov. 27, 2000. Further redesignated and amended at 81 FR 20234, 20237, Apr. 7, 2016]
§ 1211.18
UL marking requirements.
(a) Unless specifically excepted, marking required in this standard shall be permanent. Ink-printed and stenciled markings, decalcomania labels, and pressure sensitive labels are among the types of marking that are considered acceptable if they are acceptably applied and are of good quality.
(b) Except as provided below, a garage door operator shall be plainly marked, at a location where the marking will be readily visible—after installation, in the case of a permanently connected appliance—with:
(1) The manufacturer's name, trademark, or other descriptive marking by which the organization responsible for the product may be identified—hereinafter referred to as the manufacturer's name;
(2) The catalog number or the equivalent;
(3) The voltage, frequency, and input in amperes, VA, or watts. The ampere or VA rating shall be included unless the full-load power factor is 80 percent or more, or, for a cord-connected appliance, unless the rating is 50 W or less. The number of phases shall be indicated when an appliance is for use on a polyphase circuit; and
(4) The date or other dating period of manufacture not exceeding any three consecutive months.
(c) The date code repetition cycle shall not be less than 20 years.
(d) Exception No. 1: The manufacturer's identification may be in a traceable code if the operator is identified
by the brand or trademark owned by a private labeler.
(e) Exception No. 2: The date of manufacture may be abbreviated or in an established or otherwise accepted code.
(f) Exception No 3: The input in amperes or watts may be shown as part of the motor nameplate, if the appliance employs a single motor, the nameplate is readily visible after the appliance has been installed.
(g) If a manufacturer produces or assembles operators at more than one factory, each finished operator shall have a distinctive marking, which may be in code, to identify it as the product of a particular factory.
(h) The carton and the instruction manual for an operator shall be marked with the word “WARNING” and the following or the equivalent: “To reduce the risk of injury to persons—Use this operator only with (a) ___ door(s).”
(i) For products with user adjustments, a residential garage door operator shall be marked with the word “WARNING” and the following or equivalent, “Risk of entrapment. After adjusting either the force or limits of travel adjustments, insure that the door reverses on a 1
1/2
inch (or a 2 by 4 board laid flat) high obstruction on the floor.” This marking shall be located where visible to the user when making the adjustments.
(j) For a separately supplied accessory, including external entrapment protection device, the instructions, packaging, or marking on the product shall indicate the accessory manufacturer's name and or model number and the type of appliance or appliances with which it is intended to be used—such as a residential garage door operator. Additionally, installation instructions, accompanying specifications sheet, or packaging of the accessory shall identify the appliance or appliances with which it is intended to be used by specifying the manufacturer's name and catalog or model number or by any other positive means to serve the identification purpose.
(k) An appliance provided with terminals or connectors for connection of a separately supplied accessory, such as an external entrapment protection device or system, shall be marked to identify the accessory intended to be connected to the terminals or connectors. The accessory identification shall be by manufacturer's name and catalog or model number or other means to allow for the identification of accessories intended for use with the appliance.
(l) With reference to paragraph (k) of this section, instructions for installing a separately supplied accessory shall be provided. A statement shall be included in the instructions warning the user that the appliance must be disconnected from the source of supply before attempting the installation of the accessory.
(m)(1) In accordance with § 1211.14(a)(2), a residential garage door operator intended for use with both sectional and one-piece or swinging door that has an unattended operation close feature indicating the function in the carton markings shall include the following carton marking:
“WARNING: To reduce the risk of injury to persons—Only enable [+] feature when installed with sectional door,” where + is the unattended operation closing function.
(2) Exception: For operators that automatically sense one piece door operation, this warning is not required.
(n) A residential garage door operator is not required to be provided with permanent wiring systems when marked with the following or equivalent text: “This operator not equipped for permanent wiring. Contact licensed electrician to install a suitable receptacle if one is not available.” This marking is to be placed adjacent to the power cord entry.
[57 FR 60455, Dec. 21, 1992. Redesignated at 65 FR 70659, Nov. 27, 2000. Further redesignated and amended at 81 FR 20234, 20237, Apr. 7, 2016]
§ 1211.19
Statutory labeling requirement.
(a) A manufacturer selling or offering for sale in the United States an automatic residential garage door operator manufactured on or after January 1, 1991, shall clearly identify on any container of the system and on the system the month or week and year the system was manufactured and its conformance with the requirements of this part.
(b) The display of the UL logo or listing mark, and compliance with the date marking requirements stated in § 1211.18 of this subpart, on both the container and the system, shall satisfy the requirements of this subpart.
[57 FR 60455, Dec. 21, 1992. Redesignated at 65 FR 70659, Nov. 27, 2000. Further redesignated and amended at 81 FR 20234, 20238, Apr. 7, 2016]
Pt. 1211, Subpt. A, Figs.1-10

# Figures 1-10 to Subpart A of Part 1211
ER07AP16.031
[81 FR 20238, Apr. 7, 2016]
ER07AP16.200
[81 FR 20238, Apr. 7, 2016]
ER07AP16.201
[81 FR 20238, Apr. 7, 2016]
ER07AP16.202
[81 FR 20238, Apr. 7, 2016]
ER07AP16.203
[81 FR 20238, Apr. 7, 2016]
ER13JY18.000
[83 FR 32571, July 13, 2018]
ER13JY18.001
[83 FR 32571, July 13, 2018]
ER13JY18.002
[83 FR 32571, July 13, 2018]
ER13JY18.003
[83 FR 32571, July 13, 2018]
ER13JY18.004
[83 FR 32571, July 13, 2018]
ER13JY18.005
[83 FR 32571, July 13, 2018]
ER13JY18.006
[83 FR 32571, July 13, 2018]
ER13JY18.007
[83 FR 32571, July 13, 2018]
ER13JY18.008
[83 FR 32571, July 13, 2018]
ER07AP16.205
[81 FR 20238, Apr. 7, 2016]
ER07AP16.035
[81 FR 20238, Apr. 7, 2016]
ER07AP16.036
[81 FR 20238, Apr. 7, 2016]
ER07AP16.037
[81 FR 20238, Apr. 7, 2016]
Pt. 1211, Subpt. A, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart A of Part 1211—Physical Properties of Gasket-Accelerated Aging Test
ER07AP16.038
[81 FR 20238, Apr. 7, 2016]

# Subpart B—Certification

# Source:
57 FR 60468, Dec. 21, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1211.20
Purpose, scope, and application.
(a)
Purpose.
Section 14(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. 2063(a), requires every manufacturer (including importers) and private labeler of a product which is subject to a consumer product safety standard to issue a certificate that the product conforms to the applicable standard, and to base that certificate either on a test of each product or on a “reasonable testing program.” The purpose of this subpart is to establish requirements that manufacturers and importers of automatic residential garage door operators subject to the Safety Standard for Automatic Residential Garage Door Operators (16 CFR part 1211, subpart A), shall issue certificates of compliance in the form specified.
(b)
Scope and application.
The provisions of this subpart apply to all residential garage door operators which are subject to the requirements of the Safety Standard for Automatic Residential Garage Door Operators that take effect on January 1, 1993 or later.
§ 1211.21
Effective date.
Under the Consumer Product Safety Act, automatic residential garage door
operators must certify that they comply with requirements of subpart A of this part. This certification requirement is currently in effect. The specific labeling requirement of the certification rule in this subpart will become effective for any automatic residential garage door operator manufactured on or after January 21, 1993.
§ 1211.22
Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to this subpart:
(a)
Private labeler
means an owner of a brand or trademark which is used on an operator subject to the standard and which is not the brand or trademark of the manufacturer of the operator, provided the owner of the brand or trademark caused or authorized the operator to be so labeled and the brand or trademark of the manufacturer of such operator does not appear on the label.
(b)
Production lot
means a quantity of garage door operators from which certain operators are selected for testing prior to certifying the lot. All garage door operators in a lot must be essentially identical in those design, construction, and material features which relate to the ability of an operator to comply with the standard.
(c)
Reasonable testing program
means any test or series of tests which are identical or equivalent to, or more stringent than, the tests defined in the standard and which are performed on one or more garage door operators of the production lot for the purpose of determining whether there is reasonable assurance that the operators in that lot comply with the requirements of the standard.
§ 1211.23
Certification testing.
(a)
General.
Manufacturers and importers shall either test each individual garage door operator (or have it tested) or shall rely upon a reasonable testing program to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the standard.
(b)
Reasonable testing program.
This paragraph provides guidance for establishing a reasonable testing program.
(1) A reasonable testing program for automatic residential garage door operators is one that provides reasonable assurance that the operators comply with the standard. Manufacturers and importers may define their own testing programs. Such reasonable testing programs may, at the option of manufacturers and importers, be conducted by an independent third party qualified to perform such testing programs.
(2) To conduct a reasonable testing program, the garage door operators should be divided into production lots. Sample operators from each production lot should be tested in accordance with the reasonable testing program so that there is a reasonable assurance that if the operators selected for testing meet the standard, all operators in the lot will meet the standard. Where there is a change in parts, suppliers of parts, or production methods that could affect the ability of the operator to comply with the requirements of the standard, the manufacturer should establish a new production lot for testing.
(3) The Commission will test for compliance with the standard by using the test procedures contained in the standard. However, a manufacturer's reasonable testing program may include either tests prescribed in the standard or any other reasonable test procedures.
(4) If the reasonable testing program shows that an operator does not comply with one or more requirements of the standard, no operator in the production lot can be certified as complying until all non-complying operators in the lot have been identified and destroyed or altered by repair, redesign, or use of a different material or components to the extent necessary to make them conform to the standard. The sale or offering for sale of garage door operators that do not comply with the standard is a prohibited act and a violation of section 19(a) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2068(a)), regardless of whether the operator has been validly certified.
§ 1211.24
Product certification and labeling by manufacturers.
(a)
Form of permanent label of certification.
Manufacturers (including importers) shall issue certificates of compliance for automatic residential garage door operators manufactured after the effective date of the standard in the form of a permanent label which can reasonable be expected to remain
on the operator during the entire period the operator is capable of being used. Such labeling shall be deemed to be a “certificate” of compliance as that term is used in section 14 of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2063.
(b)
Exception for UL listed operators.
The certification labeling requirement of paragraph (a) of this section shall be satisfied by display of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. (UL) logo or listing mark, and compliance with the date marking requirements of UL Standard for Safety 325, on both the operator system and its container. Operators displaying the UL logo or listing mark and complying with the UL standard are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(c)
Contents of certification label.
The certification labels required by this section shall clearly and legibly contain the following information:
(1) The statement “Meets CPSC ____ (insert 1993 or later date of applicable standard) garage door operator entrapment protection requirements.”
(2) An identification of the production lot.
(d)
Placement of the label.
The label required by this section must be affixed to the operator. If the label is not immediately visible to the ultimate purchaser of the garage door operator prior to purchase because of packaging or other marketing practices, a second label that states: “Meets CPSC ____ (insert 1993 or later date of applicable standard) garage door operator entrapment protection requirements,” along with the month or week and year of manufacture must appear on the container or, if the container is not visible, on the promotional material used with the sale of the operator.
§ 1211.25
Product certification and labeling by importers.
(a)
General.
The importer of any automatic residential garage door operator subject to the standard in subpart A of this part must issue the certificate of compliance required by section 14(a) of the CPSA and § 1211.24 of this subpart. If testing of each operator, or a reasonable testing program, meeting the requirements of this subpart has been performed by or for the foreign manufacturer of the product, the importer may rely in good faith on such tests to support the certificate of compliance provided the importer is a resident of the United States or has a resident agent in the United States and the records of such tests required by § 1211.31 of subpart C of this part are maintained in the United States.
(b)
Responsibility of importer.
If the importer relies on tests by the foreign manufacturer to support the certificate of compliance, the importer bears the responsibility for examining the records supplied by the manufacturer to determine that the records of such tests appear to comply with § 1211.31 of subpart C of this part.

# Subpart C—Recordkeeping

# Source:
57 FR 60468, Dec. 21, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1211.30
Effective date.
The recordkeeping requirements in this subpart shall become effective on January 21, 1993, and shall apply to automatic residential garage door operators manufactured on or after that date.
§ 1211.31
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)
General.
Every person issuing certificates of compliance for automatic residential garage door operators subject to the standard set forth in subpart A of this part shall maintain written records which show that the certificates are based on a test of each operator or on a reasonable testing program. The records shall be maintained for a period of at least three years from the date of certification of each operator or the last operator in each production lot. These records shall be available to any designated officer or employee of the Commission upon request in accordance with section 16(b) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2065(b).
(b)
Content of records.
Records shall identify the operators tested and the production lot and describe the tests the operators were subjected to in sufficient detail so the tests may be replicated. Records shall also provide the results of the tests including the precise nature of any failures, and specific actions taken to address any failures.
(c)
Format for records.
The records required to be maintained by this section may be in any appropriate form or format that clearly provides the required information.

# Subpart D—Incorporation by Reference

# Source:
81 FR 20245, Apr. 7, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1211.40
Incorporation by reference.
(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at Consumer Product Safety Commission, Office of the Secretary, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 302-504-7923 and is available from the sources listed below. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) Door and Access Systems Manufacturers' Association, International (DASMA), 1300 Sumner Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44115-2851, Telephone: (216) 241-7333,
http://www.dasma.com/dasma-pages/D-AS-standards.asp.
(1) ANSI/DASMA 102, Specifications for Sectional Doors, 2011 revision, dated May 19, 2011, into § 1211.6(c).
(2) [Reserved]
(c) National Fire Prevention Association (NFPA), 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269-9101, Telephone: (800) 344-3555,
http://www.nfpa.org/.
(1) NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, 2014 edition, effective August 21, 2013, into § 1211.2(c).
(2) [Reserved]
(d) UL, formerly Underwriters Laboratories, International, 151 Eastern Avenue, Bensenville, IL 60106, Telephone: 1-888-853-3503,
http://ulstandards.ul.com/.
(1) UL 325, Standard for Safety: Door, Drapery, Gate, Louver, and Window Operators and Systems, SUPPLEMENT SA—(Normative)—UL 60335-1/CAN/CSA-C22.2 No. 60335-1 Based Requirements for the Evaluation of Electronic Circuits, Seventh Edition, May 19, 2017, into §§ 1211.4 and 1211.5.
(2) UL 746C, Standard for Safety: Polymeric Materials—Use in Electrical Equipment Evaluations, Sixth Edition, dated September 10, 2004, into §§ 1211.10(d) and (e) and 1211.12(c).
(3) UL 991, Standard for Safety: Tests for Safety-Related Controls Employing Solid-State Devices, Third Edition, dated October 22, 2004, into §§ 1211.4(c) and 1211.5(b)(3).
(4) UL 1998, Standard for Safety: Software in Programmable Components, Third Edition, December 18, 2013, into § 1211.8(f).
[81 FR 20245, Apr. 7, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 32579, July 13, 2018]
Pt. 1212

# PART 1212—SAFETY STANDARD FOR MULTI-PURPOSE LIGHTERS

# Subpart A—Requirements for Child-Resistance
Sec.
1212.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
1212.2
Definitions.
1212.3
Requirements for multi-purpose lighters.
1212.4
Test protocol.
1212.5
Findings.

# Subpart B—Certification Requirements
1212.11
General.
1212.12
Certificate of compliance.
1212.13
Certification tests.
1212.14
Qualification testing.
1212.15
Specifications.
1212.16
Production testing.
1212.17
Recordkeeping and reporting.
1212.18
Refusal of importation.

# Subpart C—Stockpiling
1212.20
Stockpiling.
Appendix A to Part 1212—Findings Under the Consumer Product Safety Act

# Source:
64 FR 71872, Dec. 22, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Requirements for Child-Resistance

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056, 2058, 2079(d).
§ 1212.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
This part 1212, a consumer product safety standard, prescribes requirements for multi-purpose lighters. These requirements are intended to make the multi-purpose lighters subject to the standard's provisions resistant to successful operation by children younger than 5 years of age. This standard applies to all multi-purpose lighters, as defined in § 1212.2, that are manufactured in the United States, or imported, on or after December 22, 2000.
§ 1212.2
Definitions.
As used in this part 1212:
(a)(1) Multi-purpose lighter, (also known as grill lighter, fireplace lighter, utility lighter, micro-torch, or gas match, etc.) means: A hand-held, flame-producing product that operates on fuel, incorporates an ignition mechanism, and is used by consumers to ignite items such as candles, fuel for fireplaces, charcoal or gas-fired grills, camp fires, camp stoves, lanterns, fuel-fired appliances or devices, or pilot lights, or for uses such as soldering or brazing. Some multi-purpose lighters have a feature that allows for hands-free operation.
(2) The following products are not multi-purpose lighters:
(i) Devices intended primarily for igniting cigarettes, cigars, and pipes, whether or not such devices are subject to the requirements of the Safety Standard for Cigarette Lighters (16 CFR part 1210).
(ii) Devices containing more than 10 oz. of fuel.
(iii) Matches.
(b)
Successful operation
means one signal of any duration from a surrogate multi-purpose lighter within either of the two 5-minute test periods specified in § 1212.4(f).
(c)(1)
Surrogate multi-purpose lighter
means a device that
(i) Approximates the appearance, size, shape, and weight of, and is identical in all other factors that affect child resistance (including operation and the force(s) required for operation), within reasonable manufacturing tolerances, to, a multi-purpose lighter intended for use by consumers,
(ii) Has no fuel,
(iii) Does not produce a flame, and
(iv) produces an audible, or audible and visual, signal that will be clearly discernible when the surrogate multi-purpose lighter is activated in each manner that would produce a flame in a fueled production multi-purpose lighter.
(2) This definition does not require a multi-purpose lighter to be modified with electronics or the like to produce a signal. Manufacturers may use a multi-purpose lighter without fuel as a surrogate multi-purpose lighter if a distinct audible signal, such as a “click,” can be heard clearly when the mechanism is operated in each manner that would produce a flame in a production lighter and if a flame cannot be produced in a production multi-purpose lighter without the signal. But see § 1212.4(f)(1).
(d)
Child-resistant mechanism
means the mechanism of a multi-purpose lighter that makes the lighter resist successful operation by young children, as specified in § 1212.3.
(e)
Model
means one or more multi-purpose lighters from the same manufacturer or importer that do not differ in design or other characteristics in any manner that may affect child resistance. Lighter characteristics that may affect child resistance include, but are not limited to, size, shape, case material, and ignition mechanism (including child-resistant features).
§ 1212.3
Requirements for multi-purpose lighters.
(a) A multi-purpose lighter subject to this part 1212 shall be resistant to successful operation by at least 85% of the child-test panel when tested in the manner prescribed by § 1212.4.
(b) The child-resistant mechanism of a multi-purpose lighter subject to this part 1212 must:
(1) Operate safely when used in a normal and convenient manner,
(2) Comply with this § 1212.3 for the reasonably expected life of the lighter,
(3) Not be easy to deactivate or prevent from complying with this § 1212.3.
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, automatically reset when or before the user lets go of the lighter.
(5) The child-resistant mechanism of a multi-purpose lighter subject to this part 1212 that allows hands-free operation must:
(i) Require operation of an additional feature (e.g., lock, switch, etc.) after a flame is achieved before hands-free operation can occur;
(ii) Have a manual mechanism for turning off the flame when the hands-free function is used; and either
(iii) Automatically reset when or before the user lets go of the lighter when the hands-free function is not used; or
(iv) Automatically reset when or before the user lets go of the lighter after turning off the flame when the hands-free feature is used.
§ 1212.4
Test protocol.
(a)
Child test panel.
(1) The test to determine if a multi-purpose lighter is resistant to successful operation by children uses a panel of children to test a surrogate multi-purpose lighter representing the production multi-purpose lighter. Written informed consent shall be obtained from a parent or legal guardian of a child before the child participates in the test.
(2) The test shall be conducted using at least one, but no more than two, 100-child test panels in accordance with the provisions of § 1212.4(f).
(3) The children for the test panel shall live within the United States.
(4) The age and sex distribution of each 100-child panel shall be:
(i) 30±2 children (20 ±1 males; 10±1 females) 42 through 44 months old;
(ii) 40±2 children (26±1 males; 14±1 females) 45 through 48 months old;
(iii) 30±2 children (20±1 males; 10±1 females) 49 through 51 months old.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(4):
To calculate a child's age in months: Subtract the child's birth date from the test date. The following calculation shows how to determine the age of the child at the time of the test. Both dates are expressed numerically as Month-Day-Year.

# Example:
Test Date (
e.g.,
8/3/94) minus Birth Date—(
e.g.,
6/23/90). Subtract the number for the year of birth from the number for the year of the test (
i.e.,
94 minus 90 = 4). Multiply the difference in years by 12 months (
i.e.,
4 years × 12 months = 48 months). Subtract the number for the month of the birth date from the number of the month of the test date (
i.e.,
8 minus 6 = 2 months). Add the difference in months obtained above to the number of months represented by the difference in years described above (48 months + 2 months = 50 months). If the difference in days is greater than 15 (
e.g.,
16, 17 . . .), add 1 month. If the difference in days is less than −15 (
e.g.,
−16, −17), subtract 1 month (
e.g.,
50 months−1 month = 49 months). If the difference in days is between −15 and 15 (
e.g.,
−15, −14, . . . 14, 15), do not add or subtract a month.
(5) No child with a permanent or temporary illness, injury, or handicap that would interfere with the child's ability to operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall participate.
(6) Two children at a time shall participate in testing of surrogate multi-purpose lighters. Extra children whose results will not be counted in the test may be used if necessary to provide the required partner for test subjects, if the extra children are within the required age range and a parent or guardian of each such child has signed a consent form.
(7) No child shall participate in more than one test panel or test more than one surrogate multi-purpose lighter. No child shall participate in both surrogate multi-purpose lighter testing and either surrogate cigarette lighter testing or child-resistant package testing on the same day.
(b)
Test sites, environment, and adult testers.
(1) Surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall be tested within the United States at 5 or more test sites throughout the geographical area for each 100-child panel if the sites are the customary nursery schools or day care centers of the participating children. No more than 20 children shall be tested at each site. In the alternative, surrogate multi-purpose lighters may be tested within the United States at one or more central locations, provided the participating children are drawn from a variety of geographical locations.
(2) Testing of surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall be conducted in a room that is familiar to the children on the test panel (for example, a room the children frequent at their customary nursery school or day care center). If the testing is conducted in a room that initially is unfamiliar to the children (for example, a room at a central location), the tester shall allow at
least 5 minutes for the children to become accustomed to the new environment before starting the test. The area in which the testing is conducted shall be well-lighted and isolated from distractions. The children shall be allowed freedom of movement to work with their surrogate multi-purpose lighters, as long as the tester can watch both children at the same time. Two children at a time shall participate in testing of surrogate multi-purpose lighters. The children shall be seated side by side in chairs approximately 6 inches apart, across a table from the tester. The table shall be normal table height for the children, so that they can sit up at the table with their legs underneath and so that their arms will be at a comfortable height when on top of the table. The children's chairs shall be “child size.”
(3) Each tester shall be at least 18 years old. Five or 6 adult testers shall be used for each 100-child test panel. Each tester shall test an approximately equal number of children from the 100-child test panel (20±2 children each for 5 testers and 17±2 children each for 6 testers).

# Note:
When a test is initiated with five testers and one tester drops out, a sixth tester may be added to complete the testing. When a test is initiated with six testers and one tester drops out, the test shall be completed using the five remaining testers. When a tester drops out, the requirement for each tester to test an approximately equal number of children does not apply to that tester. When testing is initiated with five testers, no tester shall test more than 19 children until it is certain that the test can be completed with five testers.
(c)
Surrogate multi-purpose lighters.
(1) Six surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall be used for each 100-child panel. The six multi-purpose lighters shall represent the range of forces required for operation of multi-purpose lighters intended for use. All of these surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall have the same visual appearance, including color. The surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall be labeled with sequential numbers beginning with the number one. The same six surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall be used for the entire 100-child panel. The surrogate multi-purpose lighters may be used in more than one 100-child panel test. The surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall not be damaged or jarred during storage or transportation. The surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall not be exposed to extreme heat or cold. The surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall be tested at room temperature. No surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be left unattended.
(2) Each surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be tested by an approximately equal number of children in a 100-child test panel (17±2 children).

# Note:
If a surrogate multi-purpose lighter is permanently damaged, testing shall continue with the remaining multi-purpose lighters. When a multi-purpose lighter is dropped out, the requirement that each multi-purpose lighter be tested by an approximately equal number of children does not apply to that lighter.
(3) Before each 100-child panel is tested, each surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be examined to verify that it approximates the appearance, size, shape, and weight of a production multi-purpose lighter intended for use.
(4) Before and after each 100-child panel is tested, force measurements shall be taken on all operating components that could affect child resistance to verify that they are within reasonable operating tolerances for the corresponding production multi-purpose lighter.
(5) Before and after testing surrogate multi-purpose lighters with each child, each surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be operated outside the presence of any child participating in the test to verify that it produces a signal. If the surrogate multi-purpose lighter will not produce a signal before the test, it shall be repaired before it is used in testing. If the surrogate multi-purpose lighter does not produce a signal when it is operated after the test, the results for the preceding test with that multi-purpose lighter shall be eliminated. An explanation shall be recorded on the data collection record. The multi-purpose lighter shall be repaired and tested with another eligible child (as one of a pair of children) to complete the test panel.
(d)
Encouragement.
(1) Prior to the test, the tester shall talk to the children in a normal and friendly tone to
make them feel at ease and to gain their confidence.
(2) The tester shall tell the children that he or she needs their help for a special job. The children shall not be promised a reward of any kind for participating, and shall not be told that the test is a game or contest or that it is fun.
(3) The tester shall not discourage a child from attempting to operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter at any time (either verbally or with body language such as facial expressions), unless a child is in danger of hurting himself or another child. The tester shall not discuss the dangers of multi-purpose lighters or matches with the children to be tested prior to the end of the 10-minute test.
(4) Whenever a child has stopped attempting to operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter for a period of approximately one minute, the tester shall encourage the child to try by saying “keep trying for just a little longer.”
(5) Whenever a child says that his or her parent, grandparent, guardian, etc., said never to touch lighters, say “that's right—never touch a real lighter—but your [parent, etc.] said it was OK for you to try to make a noise with this special lighter because it can't hurt you.”
(6) The children in a pair being tested may encourage each other to operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter and may tell or show each other how to operate it. (This interaction is not considered to be disruption as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.) However, neither child shall be allowed to touch or operate the other child's multi-purpose lighter. If one child takes the other child's surrogate multi-purpose lighter, that surrogate lighter shall be immediately returned to the proper child. If this occurs, the tester shall say “No. He (she) has to try to do it himself (herself).”
(e)
Children who refuse to participate.
(1) If a child becomes upset or afraid, and cannot be reassured before the test starts, select another eligible child for participation in that pair.
(2) If a child disrupts the participation of another child for more than 1 minute during the test, the test shall be stopped and both children eliminated from the results. An explanation shall be recorded on the data collection record. These two children should be replaced with other eligible children to complete the test panel.
(3) If a child is not disruptive but refuses to attempt to operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter throughout the entire test period, that child shall be eliminated from the test results and an explanation shall be recorded on the data collection record. The child shall be replaced with another eligible child (as one of a pair of children) to complete the test panel.
(f)
Test procedure.
(1) To begin the test, the tester shall say “I have a special lighter that will not make a flame. It makes a noise like this.” Except where doing so would block the child's view of a visual signal, the adult tester shall place a 8
1/2
by 11 inch sheet of cardboard or other rigid opaque material upright on the table in front of the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, so that the surrogate multi-purpose lighter cannot be seen by the child, and shall operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter once to produce its signal. The tester shall say “Your parents said it is OK for you to try to make that noise with your lighter.” The tester shall place a surrogate multi-purpose lighter in each child's hand and say “now you try to make a noise with your lighter. Keep trying until I tell you to stop.”

# Note:
For multi-purpose lighters with an “off/on” switch, the surrogate lighter shall be given to the child with the switch in the “on,” or unlocked, position.
(2) The adult tester shall observe the children for 5 minutes to determine if either or both of the children can successfully operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter by producing one signal of any duration. If a child achieves a spark without defeating the child-resistant feature, say “that's a spark—it won't hurt you—try to make a noise with your lighter.” If any child successfully operates the surrogate multi-purpose lighter during this first 5-minute period, the lighter shall be taken from that child and the child shall not be asked to try to operate the lighter again. The tester shall ask the
successful child to remain until the other child is finished.
(3) If either or both of the children are unable to successfully operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter during the 5-minute period specified in § 1212.4(f) (3), the adult tester shall demonstrate the operation of the surrogate multi-purpose lighter. To conduct the demonstration, secure the children's full attention by saying “Okay, give me your lighter(s) now.” Take the surrogate multi-purpose lighters and place them on the table in front of you out of the children's reach. Then say, “I'll show you how to make the noise with your lighters. First I'll show you with (child's name) lighter and then I'll show you with (child's name) lighter.” Pick up the first child's surrogate multi-purpose lighter. Hold the lighter approximately 2 feet in front of the children at their eye level. Hold the surrogate multi-purpose lighter in a comfortable operating position in one hand so both children can see the operation of the child-resistant mechanism and the ignition mechanism during each demonstration. Say “now watch the lighter.” Look at each child to verify that they are both looking at the lighter. Operate the multi-purpose lighter one time in a normal manner according to the manufacturer's instructions. Do not exaggerate operating movements. Do not verbally describe the lighter's operation. Place the first child's lighter back on the table in front of you and pick up the second child's lighter. Say, “Okay, now watch this lighter.” Repeat the demonstration as described above using the second child's multi-purpose lighter.

# Note to paragraph (
f

# )(3):
The demonstration is conducted with each child's lighter, even if one child has successfully operated the lighter. Testers shall conduct the demonstration in a uniform manner, including the words spoken to the children, the way the multi-purpose lighter is held and operated, and how the tester's hand and body is oriented to the children. All testers must be able to operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighters using only appropriate operating movements in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. If any of these requirements are not met during the demonstration for any pair of children, the results for that pair of children shall be eliminated from the test. Another pair of eligible children shall be used to complete the test panel.
(4) Each child who fails to successfully operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter in the first 5 minutes is then given another 5 minutes in which to attempt to complete the successful operation of the surrogate multi-purpose lighter. After the demonstrations, give the same surrogate multi-purpose lighter back to each child who did not successfully operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter in the first 5 minutes by placing the multi-purpose lighter in the child's hand. Say “Okay, now you try to make the noise with your lighter(s)—keep trying until I tell you to stop.” If any child successfully operates the surrogate multi-purpose lighter during this period, the surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be taken from that child and the child shall not be asked to try to operate the lighter again. If the other child has not yet successfully operated the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the tester shall ask the successful child to remain until the other child is finished.

# Note:
Multi-purpose lighters with an on/off switch shall have the switch returned to the position the child left it at the end of the first 5-minute test period before returning the lighter to the child.
(5) At the end of the second 5-minute test period, take the surrogate multi-purpose lighter from any child who has not successfully operated it.
(6) After the test is over, ask the children to stand next to you. Look at the children's faces and say: “These are special lighters that don't make fire. Real lighters can burn you. Will you both promise me that if you find a real lighter you won't touch it and that you'll tell a grownup right away?” Wait for an affirmative response from each child; then thank the children for helping.
(7) Escort the children out of the room used for testing.
(8) After a child has participated in the testing of a surrogate multi-purpose lighter, and on the same day, provide written notice of that fact to the child's parent or guardian. This notification may be in the form of a letter provided to the school to be given to a parent or guardian of each child. The notification shall state that the child participated, shall ask the parent or guardian to warn the child not to play
with lighters or matches, and shall remind the parent or guardian to keep all lighters and matches, whether child-resistant or not, out of the reach of children. For children who operated the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the notification shall state that the child was able to operate the child-resistant multi-purpose lighter. For children who do not defeat the child-resistant feature, the notification shall state that, although the child did not defeat the child-resistant feature, the child may be able to do so in the future.
(g)
Data collection and recording.
Except for recording the times required for the children to activate the signal, recording of data should be avoided while the children are trying to operate the multi-purpose lighters, so that the tester's full attention is on the children during the test period. If actual testing is videotaped, the camera shall be stationary and shall be operated remotely in order to avoid distracting the children. Any photographs shall be taken after actual testing and shall simulate actual test procedure(s) (for example, the demonstration). The following data shall be collected and recorded for each child in the 100-child test panel:
(1) Sex (male or female).
(2) Date of birth (month, day, year).
(3) Age (in months, to the nearest month).
(4) The number of the multi-purpose lighter tested by that child.
(5) Date of participation in the test (month, day, year).
(6) Location where the test was given (city, state, and the name of the site).
(7) The name of the tester who conducted the test.
(8) The elapsed time at which the child achieved any operation of the surrogate signal in the first 5-minute test period.
(9) The elapsed time at which the child achieved any operation of the surrogate signal in the second 5-minute test period.
(10) For a single pair of children from each 100-child test panel, photograph(s) or video tape to show how the multi-purpose lighter was held in the tester's hand, and the orientation of the tester's body and hand to the children, during the demonstration.
(h)
Evaluation of test results and acceptance criterion.
To determine whether a surrogate multi-purpose lighter resists operation by at least 85% of the children, sequential panels of 100 children each, up to a maximum of 2 panels, shall be tested as prescribed below.
(1) If no more than 10 children in the first 100-child test panel successfully operated the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the multi-purpose lighter represented by the surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be considered to be resistant to successful operation by at least 85% of the child test panel, and no further testing is conducted. If 11 through 18 children in the first 100-child test panel successfully operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the test results are inconclusive, and the surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be tested with a second 100-child test panel in accordance with this § 1212.4. If 19 or more of the children in the first 100-child test panel successfully operated the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the lighter represented by the surrogate shall be considered not resistant to successful operation by at least 85% of the child test panel, and no further testing is conducted.
(2)(i) If additional testing of the surrogate multi-purpose lighter is required by paragraph (h)(1) of this section, conduct the test specified by this § 1212.4 using a second 100-child test panel and record the results. If a total of no more than 30 of the children in the combined first and second 100-child test panels successfully operated the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the multi-purpose lighter represented by the surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be considered resistant to successful operation by at least 85% of the child test panel, and no further testing is performed. If a total of 31 or more children in the combined first and second 100-child test panels successfully operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the multi-purpose lighter represented by the surrogate shall be considered not resistant to successful operation by 85% of the child test panel, and no further testing is conducted.
(ii) Thus, for the first panel of 100 children, the surrogate passes if there are 0-10 successful operations by the children; the surrogate fails if there
are 19 or greater successful operations; and testing is continued if there are 11-18 successes. If testing is continued with a second panel of children, the surrogate passes if the combined total of the successful operations of the two panels is 30 or less, and it fails if there are 31 or more.
§ 1212.5
Findings.
(a) Before issuing a final rule, the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA), 15 U.S.C. 2058(f)(1), requires the Commission to consider and make appropriate findings for inclusion in the rule with respect to:
(1) The degree and nature of the risk of injury the rule is designed to eliminate or reduce;
(2) The approximate number of consumer products, or types or classes thereof, subject to such rule;
(3) The need of the public for the consumer products subject to such rule, and the probable effect of such rule, upon the utility, cost, or availability of such products to meet such need; and
(4) Any means of achieving the objective of the order while minimizing adverse effects on competition or disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices consistent with the public health and safety
(b) The CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2058(f)(3), also requires the Commission to make the following findings before it promulgates a rule, and to include such findings in the rule:
(1) That the rule (including its effective date) is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury associated with such product;
(2) That the promulgation of the rule is in the public interest;
(3) That the benefits expected from the rule bear a reasonable relationship to its costs; and
(4) That the rule imposes the least burdensome requirement that prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated.
(c) The required findings are included as appendix A to this part 1212.

# Subpart B—Certification Requirements

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2063, 2065(b), 2066(g), 2076(e), 2079(d).
§ 1212.11
General.
Section 14(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA), 15 U.S.C. 2063(a), requires every manufacturer, private labeler, or importer of a product that is subject to a consumer product safety standard and that is distributed in commerce to issue a certificate that such product conforms to the applicable standard and to base that certificate upon a test of each item or upon a reasonable testing program. The purpose of this subpart B of part 1212 is to establish requirements that manufacturers, importers, and private labelers must follow to certify that their products comply with the Safety Standard for Multi-purpose lighters. This Subpart B describes the minimum features of a reasonable testing program and includes requirements for labeling, recordkeeping, and reporting pursuant to sections 14, 16(b), 17(g), and 27(e) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2063, 2065(b), 2066(g), and 2076(e).
§ 1212.12
Certificate of compliance.
(a)
General requirements
—(1)
Manufacturers (including importers).
Manufacturers of any multi-purpose lighter subject to the standard must issue the certificate of compliance required by section 14(a) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2063(a), and this subpart B, based on a reasonable testing program or a test of each product, as required by §§ 1212.13, 1212.14, and 1212.16. Manufacturers must also label each multi-purpose lighter subject to the standard as required by paragraph (c) of this section and keep the records and make the reports required by §§ 1212.15 and 1212.17. For purposes of this requirement, an importer of multi-purpose lighters shall be considered the “manufacturer.”
(2)
Private labelers.
Because private labelers necessarily obtain their products from a manufacturer or importer that is already required to issue the certificate, private labelers are not required to issue a certificate. However, private labelers must ensure that the multi-purpose lighters are labeled in
accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and that any certificate of compliance that is supplied with each shipping unit of multi-purpose lighters in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section is supplied to any distributor or retailer who receives the product from the private labeler.
(3)
Testing on behalf of importers.
(i) If the required testing has been performed by or for a foreign manufacturer of a product, an importer may rely on such tests to support the certificate of compliance, provided that:
(A) The importer is a resident of the United States or has a resident agent in the United States and
(B) The records are in English and the records and the surrogate multi-purpose lighters tested are kept in the United States and can be provided to the Commission within 48 hours (§ 1212.17(a)) or, in the case of production records, can be provided to the Commission within 7 calendar days in accordance with § 1212.17(a)(3).
(ii) The importer is responsible for ensuring that:
(A) The foreign manufacturer's records show that all testing used to support the certificate of compliance has been performed properly (§§ 1212.14-1212.16),
(B) The records provide a reasonable assurance that all multi-purpose lighters imported comply with the standard (§ 1212.13(b)(1)),
(C) The records exist in English (§ 1212.17(a)),
(D) The importer knows where the required records and multi-purpose lighters are located and that records required to be located in the United States are located there,
(E) Arrangements have been made so that any records required to be kept in the United States will be provided to the Commission within 48 hours of a request and any records not kept in the United States will be provided to the Commission within 7 calendar days (§ 1212.17(a)), and
(F) The information required by § 1212.17(b) to be provided to the Commission's Office of Compliance has been provided.
(b)
Certificate of compliance.
A certificate of compliance must accompany each shipping unit of the product (for example, a case), or otherwise be furnished to any distributor or retailer to whom the product is sold or delivered by the manufacturer, private labeler, or importer. The certificate shall state:
(1) That the product “complies with the Consumer Product Safety Standard for Multi-purpose lighters (16 CFR part 1212)”,
(2) The name and address of the manufacturer or importer issuing the certificate or of the private labeler, and
(3) The date(s) of manufacture and, if different from the address in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the address of the place of manufacture.
(c)
Labeling.
The manufacturer or importer must label each multi-purpose lighter with the following information, which may be in code.
(1) An identification of the period of time, not to exceed 31 days, during which the multi-purpose lighter was manufactured.
(2) An identification of the manufacturer of the multi-purpose lighter, unless the multi-purpose lighter bears a private label. If the multi-purpose lighter bears a private label, it shall bear a code mark or other label that will permit the seller of the multi-purpose lighter to identify the manufacturer to the purchaser upon request.
§ 1212.13
Certification tests.
(a)
General.
As explained in § 1212.11 of this subpart, certificates of compliance required by section 14(a) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2063(a), must be based on a reasonable testing program.
(b)
Reasonable testing programs
—(1)
Requirements.
(i) A reasonable testing program for multi-purpose lighters is one that demonstrates with a high degree of assurance that all multi-purpose lighters manufactured for sale or distributed in commerce will meet the requirements of the standard, including the requirements of § 1212.3. Manufacturers and importers shall determine the types and frequency of testing for their own reasonable testing programs. A reasonable testing program should be sufficiently stringent that it will detect any variations in production or performance during the production interval that would cause any multi-purpose lighters to fail to meet the requirements of the standard.
(ii) All reasonable testing programs shall include:
(A) Qualification tests, which must be performed on surrogates of each model of multi-purpose lighter produced, or to be produced, to demonstrate that the product is capable of passing the tests prescribed by the standard (see § 1212.14) and
(B) Production tests, which must be performed during appropriate production intervals as long as the product is being manufactured (see § 1212.16).
(iii) Corrective action and/or additional testing must be performed whenever certification tests of samples of the product give results that do not provide a high degree of assurance that all multi-purpose lighters manufactured during the applicable production interval will pass the tests of the standard.
(2)
Testing by third parties.
At the option of the manufacturer or importer, some or all of the testing of each multi-purpose lighter or multi-purpose lighter surrogate may be performed by a commercial testing laboratory or other third party. However, the manufacturer or importer must ensure that all certification testing has been properly performed with passing results and that all records of such tests are maintained in accordance with § 1212.17 of this subpart.
§ 1212.14
Qualification testing.
(a)
Testing.
Before any manufacturer or importer of multi-purpose lighters distributes multi-purpose lighters in commerce in the United States, surrogate multi-purpose lighters of each model shall be tested in accordance with § 1212.4 to ensure that all such multi-purpose lighters comply with the standard. However, if a manufacturer has tested one model of multi-purpose lighter, and then wishes to distribute another model of multi-purpose lighter that differs from the first model only by differences that would not have an adverse effect on child resistance, the second model need not be tested in accordance with § 1212.4.
(b)
Product modifications.
If any changes are made to a product after initial qualification testing that could adversely affect the ability of the product to meet the requirements of the standard, additional qualification tests must be made on surrogates for the changed product before the changed multi-purpose lighters are distributed in commerce.
(c)
Requalification.
If a manufacturer or importer chooses to requalify a multi-purpose lighter design after it has been in production, this may be done by following the testing procedures at § 1212.4.
§ 1212.15
Specifications.
(a)
Requirement.
Before any multi-purpose lighters that are subject to the standard are distributed in commerce, the manufacturer or importer shall ensure that the surrogate multi-purpose lighters used for qualification testing under § 1212.14 are described in a written product specification. (Section 1212.4(c) requires that six surrogate multi-purpose lighters be used for testing each 100-child panel.)
(b)
Contents of specification.
The product specification shall include the following information:
(1) A complete description of the multi-purpose lighter, including size, shape, weight, fuel, fuel capacity, ignition mechanism, and child-resistant features.
(2) A detailed description of all dimensions, force requirements, or other features that could affect the child-resistance of the multi-purpose lighter, including the manufacturer's tolerances for each such dimension or force requirement.
(3) Any further information, including, but not limited to, model names or numbers, necessary to adequately describe the multi-purpose lighters and any child-resistant features.
§ 1212.16
Production testing.
(a)
General.
Manufacturers and importers shall test samples of multi-purpose lighters subject to the standard as they are manufactured, to demonstrate that the multi-purpose lighters meet the specifications, required under § 1212.15, of the surrogate that has been shown by qualification testing to meet the requirements of the standard.
(b)
Types and frequency of testing.
Manufacturers, private labelers, and importers shall determine the types of
tests for production testing. Each production test shall be conducted at a production interval short enough to provide a high degree of assurance that, if the samples selected for testing pass the production tests, all other multi-purpose lighters produced during the interval will meet the standard.
(c)
Test failure
—(1)
Sale of multi-purpose lighters.
If any test yields results which indicate that any multi-purpose lighters manufactured during the production interval may not meet the standard, production and distribution in commerce of multi-purpose lighters that may not comply with the standard must cease until it is determined that the lighters meet the standard or until corrective action is taken. (It may be necessary to modify the multi-purpose lighters or perform additional tests to ensure that only complying multi-purpose lighters are distributed in commerce. Multi-purpose lighters from other production intervals having test results showing that multi-purpose lighters from that interval comply with the standard could be produced and distributed unless there was some reason to believe that they might not comply with the standard.)
(2)
Corrective actions.
When any production test fails to provide a high degree of assurance that all multi-purpose lighters comply with the standard, corrective action must be taken. Corrective action may include changes in the manufacturing process, the assembly process, the equipment used to manufacture the product, or the product's materials or design. The corrective action must provide a high degree of assurance that all multi-purpose lighters produced after the corrective action will comply with the standard. If the corrective action changes the product from the surrogate used for qualification testing in a manner that could adversely affect its child-resistance, the multi-purpose lighter must undergo new qualification tests in accordance with § 1212.14.
§ 1212.17
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(a) Every manufacturer and importer of lighters subject to the standard shall maintain the following records in English on paper, microfiche, or similar media and make such records available to any designated officer or employee of the Commission in accordance with section 16(b) of the Consumer Product Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. 2065(b). Such records must also be kept in the United States and provided to the Commission within 48 hours of receipt of a request from any employee of the Commission, except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Legible copies of original records may be used to comply with these requirements.
(1) Records of qualification testing, including a description of the tests, photograph(s) or a video tape for a single pair of children from each 100-child test panel to show how the lighter was held in the tester's hand, and the orientation of the tester's body and hand to the children, during the demonstration, the dates of the tests, the data required by § 1212.4(d), the actual surrogate lighters tested, and the results of the tests, including video tape records, if any. These records shall be kept for a period of 3 years after the production of the particular model to which such tests relate has ceased. If requalification tests are undertaken in accordance with § 1212.14(c), the original qualification test results may be discarded 3 years after the requalification testing, and the requalification test results and surrogates, and the other information required in this subsection for qualifications tests, shall be kept in lieu thereof.
(2) Records of procedures used for production testing required by this subpart B, including a description of the types of tests conducted (in sufficient detail that they may be replicated), the production interval selected, the sampling scheme, and the pass/reject criterion. These records shall be kept for a period of 3 years after production of the lighter has ceased.
(3) Records of production testing, including the test results, the date and location of testing, and records of corrective actions taken, which in turn includes the specific actions taken to improve the design or manufacture or to correct any noncomplying lighter, the date the actions were taken, the test result or failure that triggered the actions, and the additional actions taken
to ensure that the corrective action had the intended effect. These records shall be kept for a period of 3 years following the date of testing. Records of production testing results may be kept on paper, microfiche, computer tape, or other retrievable media. Where records are kept on computer tape or other retrievable media, however, the records shall be made available to the Commission on paper copies upon request. A manufacturer or importer of a lighter that is not manufactured in the United States may maintain the production records required by this paragraph (a)(3) outside the United States, but shall make such records available to the Commission in the United States within 1 week of a request from a Commission employee for access to those records under section 16(b) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2065(b).
(4) Records of specifications required under § 1212.15 shall be kept for 3 years after production of each lighter model has ceased.
(b)
Reporting.
At least 30 days before it first imports or distributes in commerce any model of lighter subject to the standard, every manufacturer and importer must provide a written report to the Office of Compliance, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East-West Highway, Room 610, Bethesda, Maryland 20814-4408. Such report shall include:
(1) The name, address, and principal place of business of the manufacturer or importer,
(2) A detailed description of the lighter model and the child-resistant feature(s) used in that model,
(3) A description of the qualification testing, including a description of the surrogate lighters tested (including a description of the point in the operation at which the surrogate will signal operation—e.g., the distance by which a trigger must be moved), the specification of the surrogate lighter required by § 1212.15, a summary of the results of all such tests, the dates the tests were performed, the location(s) of such tests, and the identity of the organization that conducted the tests,
(4) An identification of the place or places that the lighters were or will be manufactured,
(5) The location(s) where the records required to be maintained by paragraph (a) of this section are kept, and
(6) A prototype or production unit of that lighter model.
(c)
Confidentiality.
Persons who believe that any information required to be submitted or made available to the Commission is trade secret or otherwise confidential shall request that the information be considered exempt from disclosure by the Commission, in accordance with 16 CFR 1015.18. Requests for confidentiality of records provided to the Commission will be handled in accordance with section 6(a)(2) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2055(a)(2), the Freedom of Information Act as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552, and the Commission's regulations under that act, 16 CFR part 1015.
§ 1212.18
Refusal of importation.
(a)
For noncompliance with reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
The Commission has determined that compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart is necessary to ensure that lighters comply with this part 1212. Therefore, pursuant to section 17(g) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2066(g), the Commission may refuse to permit importation of any lighters with respect to which the manufacturer or importer has not complied with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart. Since the records are required to demonstrate that production lighters comply with the specifications for the surrogate, the Commission may refuse importation of lighters if production lighters do not comply with the specifications required by this subpart, or if any other recordkeeping or reporting requirement in this part is violated.
(b)
For noncompliance with this standard or for lack of a certification certificate.
As provided in section 17(a) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2066(a), products subject to this standard shall be refused admission into the customs territory of the United States if, among other reasons, the product either fails to comply with this standard or is not accompanied by the certificate required by this standard.

# Subpart C—Stockpiling

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2058(g)(2), 2065(b), 2079(d)
§ 1212.20
Stockpiling.
(a)
Definition.
“Stockpiling” means to manufacture or import a product that is subject to a consumer product safety rule between the date of issuance of the rule and its effective date at a rate which is significantly greater than the rate at which such product was produced or imported during a base period.
(b)
Base period.
For purposes of this rule, “base period” means the 1-year period ending December 21, 1999.
(c)
Prohibited act.
Manufacturers and importers of multi-purpose lighters shall not manufacture or import such lighters that do not comply with the requirements of this part between December 22, 1999 and December 22, 2000, at a rate that is greater than the rate of production or importation during the base period plus 20 per cent of that rate.
(d)
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
All firms and persons who make or import multi-purpose lighters, after the date of publication of this rule, that do not meet the requirements of this standard, shall supply the Commission's Office of Compliance with:
(1) Supporting information to establish the number of multi-purpose lighters made or imported during the base period. This information shall be submitted by January 21, 2000.
(2) Supporting information to establish the number of lighters made or imported during the year following publication of the final rule. This information shall be submitted within 10 days of the end of each calendar month, for lighters shipped within that month.
(3) Supporting information shall be sufficient to identify the manufacturer or importer, the party to which the lighters were sold, the destination of the lighters, and shall include copies of relevant invoices and importation documents.
Pt. 1212, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1212—Findings Under the Consumer Product Safety Act
Section 9(f) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2058(f)) requires the Commission to make findings concerning the following topics and to include the findings in the rule. Because the findings are required to be published in the rule, they reflect the information that was available to the Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CPSC” or “Commission”) when the standard was issued on December 22, 1999.
A.
The degree and nature of the risk of injury the rule is designed to eliminate or reduce.
The standard is designed to reduce the risk of death and injury from accidental fires started by children playing with multi-purpose lighters. The Commission has identified 196 fires that occurred from 1995 through 1998 that were started by children under age 5 playing with multi-purpose lighters. These fires resulted in a total of 35 deaths and 81 injuries. Fire-related injuries include thermal burns—many of high severity—as well as anoxia and other, less serious injuries. The societal costs of these fires is estimated to include $175 million in deaths, $13.7 million in injuries, and over $5 million in property damage. Because these data are from known fires rather than national estimates, the extent of the total problem may be greater. Fires started by children under age 5 are those which the standard would most effectively reduce.
B.
The approximate number of consumer products, or types or classes thereof, subject to the rule.
The standard covers certain flame-producing devices, commonly known as multi-purpose lighters, that are defined in § 1212.2(a) of 16 CFR part 1212. This definition includes products that are referred to as micro-torches. Multi-purpose lighters may use any fuel and may be refillable or nonrefillable. Approximately 21 million multi-purpose lighters are expected to be sold to consumers in the U.S. during 1999. Multi-purpose lighters manufactured in the United States, or imported, on or after December 22, 2000 will be required to meet child-resistance requirements. The following products are not multi-purpose lighters: devices intended primarily for igniting cigarettes, cigars, and pipes, whether or not such devices are subject to the requirements of the Safety Standard for Cigarette Lighters (16 CFR part 1210); devices that contain more than 10 oz. of fuel; and matches.
C.
The need of the public for the consumer products subject to the rule, and the probable effect of the rule on the utility, cost, or availability of such products to meet such need.
Consumers use multi-purpose lighters primarily to ignite items such as candles, fuel for fireplaces, charcoal or gas-fired grills, camp
fires, camp stoves, lanterns, or fuel-fired appliances or devices or their pilot lights.
1. There will be several types of costs associated with the rule. Manufacturers would have to devote some resources to the development or modification of technology to produce child-resistant multi-purpose lighters. Before being marketed, the lighters must be tested and certified to the new standard. It is also possible that manufacturing child-resistant lighters may require more labor or material than non-child-resistant lighters.
2. Manufacturers will have to modify their existing multi-purpose lighters to comply with the rule. In general, costs that manufacturers would incur in developing, producing, and selling new complying lighters include the following:
• Research and development toward finding the most promising approaches to improving child resistance, including building prototypes and surrogate lighters for preliminary child panel testing;
• Retooling and other production equipment changes required to produce more child-resistant multi-purpose lighters, beyond normal periodic changes made to the plant and equipment;
• Labor and material costs of the additional assembly steps, or modification of assembly steps, in the manufacturing process;
• The additional labeling, recordkeeping, certification, testing, and reporting that will be required for each new model;
• Various administrative costs of compliance, such as legal support and executive time spent at related meetings and activities; and
• Lost revenue if sales are adversely affected.
3. Industry sources have not been able to provide firm estimates of these costs. One major manufacturer has introduced a child-resistant multi-purpose lighter. However, because that company did not previously manufacture a non-child-resistant lighter, it was unable to estimate the incremental cost of developing and manufacturing child-resistant multi-purpose lighters.
4. Assuming that there are 20 manufacturers and that each invests an average of $2 million to develop and market complying lighters, the total industry cost for research development, retooling, and compliance testing would be approximately $40 million. If amortized over a period of 10 years, and assuming a modest 1% sales growth each year, the average of these costs would be about $0.23 per unit. For a manufacturer with a large market share (i.e., selling several million units or more a year) the cost per unit of the development costs could be lower than the estimated $0.23 per unit, even at the high end of the estimates. On the other hand, for manufacturers with a small market share, the per-unit development costs would be greater. Some manufacturers with small market shares may even drop out of the market (at least temporarily) or delay entering the market.
5. In addition to the research, development, retooling, and testing costs, material and labor costs are likely to increase. For example, additional labor will be required to add the child-resistant mechanism to the lighter during assembly. Additional materials may also be needed to produce the child-resistant mechanism. While CPSC was unable to obtain reliable estimates, some industry sources indicated that they believed that these costs would be relatively low, probably less than $0.25 per unit.
6. Multi-purpose lighters will also be required to have a label that identifies the manufacturer and the approximate date of manufacture. However, virtually all products are already labeled in some way. Since the requirement in the rule allows substantial flexibility to the manufacturer in terms of things such as color, size, and location, this requirement is not expected to increase the costs significantly.
7. Certification and testing costs include costs of producing surrogate lighters; conducting child panel tests; and issuing and maintaining records for each model. The largest component of these costs is believed to be building surrogates and conducting child panel tests, which, based on CPSC experience, may cost about $25,000 per lighter model. Administrative expenses associated with the compliance and related activities are difficult to quantify, since many such activities associated with the rule would probably be carried out anyway and the marginal impact of the recommended rule is probably slight.
8. Multi-purpose lighters are sold in countries other than the United States. Some manufacturers may develop lighters that meet the requirements of the rule for distribution in the United States, but continue to distribute the current, non-child-resistant models in other countries. Thus, some manufacturers may incur the incremental costs associated with producing multiple lines of similar products. These costs could include extra administrative costs required to maintain different lines and the incremental costs of producing different lines of similar products, such as using different molds or different assembly steps. These costs would, however, be mitigated if similar or identical standards were adopted by other countries. In total, the rule will likely increase the cost of manufacturing multi-purpose lighters by about $0.48 per unit.
9. At the present time, one manufacturer has about 80-90% of the market for multi-purpose lighters. The other manufacturers, importers, and private labelers divide up the remaining 10-20% of the market. Thus, there
is already a very high degree of concentration in the market. Even so, at least two manufacturers have already entered the market with models that are believed to meet the requirements of the rule and at least one other firm is believed to be actively developing a child-resistant lighter. Therefore, the rule is not expected to have any significant impact on competition. Moreover, other firms are expected to enter the market for multi-purpose lighters, and thereby increase competition, as the market expands. Firms that market child-resistant multi-purpose lighters before the standard's effective date may gain an initial competitive advantage. However, any differential impact is likely to be slight and short-lived. Other manufacturers can be expected to have child-resistant multi-purpose lighters developed and ready to market before or soon after the rule goes into effect.
D.
Impact on consumers.
Aside from increased safety, the rule is likely to affect consumers in two ways. First, the increased cost for producing the child-resistant models will likely result in higher retail prices for multi-purpose lighters. Second, the utility derived from child-resistant lighters may be decreased if complying lighters are less easy to operate.
1. Assuming a 100% markup over the incremental cost to manufacturers (estimated at $0.48/unit), the rule may be expected to increase the retail price of multi-purpose lighters by $0.96 per unit. The per-unit price increase for micro-torches and other high-end multi-purpose lighters may be higher due to the smaller numbers of such lighters produced.
2. The utility that consumers receive from multi-purpose lighters may be reduced if the rule makes the lighters more difficult to operate. This could result in some consumers switching to substitute products, such as matches. However, as with child-resistant cigarette lighters, the increased difficulty of operating child-resistant multi-purpose lighters is expected to be slight. Moreover, even if some consumers do switch to other products, the risk of fire is not expected to increase significantly. Most cigarette lighters (one possible substitute) must already meet the same child-resistant standard as those applicable to multi-purpose lighters. Although consumers that switch to matches may increase the risk of child-play fires somewhat, matches seem to be inherently more child resistant than are non-child-resistant multi-purpose lighters. Previously, the CPSC determined that non-child-resistant cigarette lighters were 1.4 times as likely as matches to be involved in child-play fires and 3.9 times as likely to be involved in a child-play death. Thus, even if some consumers did switch to using matches, the risk of child-play fires would still likely be less than if they continued to use non-child-resistant multi-purpose lighters.
3. The total societal costs of fires known to have been started during 1995 through 1998 by children under age 5 playing with multi-purpose lighters was approximately $194.2 million, or $48.6 million per year. This is probably an underestimate, since it only includes the cases of which CPSC is aware. During the same period, an estimated 20 million multi-purpose lighters were available for use each year. The societal costs of the fires started by young children attempting to operate multi-purpose lighters is, therefore, about $2.43 per lighter ($48.6 million ÷ 20 million lighters) per year. The rule is expected to reduce this cost by 75 to 84%. Therefore, the expected societal benefit of the rule in terms of reduced fires, deaths, injuries, and property damage is expected to be at least $1.82 per complying lighter sold.
4. As discussed above, the rule may increase the cost of manufacturing multi-purpose lighters by $0.48 and may increase the retail prices by as much as $0.96. Therefore, assuming that sales of multi-purpose lighters remain the same, the net benefit (benefits minus costs) of the rule to consumers is expected to be at least $0.86 per unit ($1.82—$0.96). Based on annual sales of approximately 20 million units per year, the rule would result in an annual net benefit to consumers at least $17.2 million (20 million × $0.86) annually.
5. The actual level of benefits observed could be higher if some multi-purpose lighters are stored with the on/off switch in the “on” position. If a significant number of consumers commonly store multi-purpose lighters with the switch on, the effective level of child resistance of multi-purpose lighters currently in use may be lower than indicated by CPSC's baseline testing. This would increase the effectiveness of the rule and the value of the net benefits.
E.
Any means of achieving the objective of the order while minimizing adverse effects on competition or disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices consistent with the public health and safety.
1. The performance requirements of this part 1212 are based on the Commission's Safety Standard for Cigarette Lighters, 16 CFR part 1210. In developing that standard, the Commission considered the potential effects on competition and business practices of various aspects of the standard, and incorporated some burden-reducing elements into the standard.
2. One possible alternative to this mandatory standard would be for the Commission to rely on voluntary conformance to the requirements of the standard to provide safety to consumers. The expected level of conformance to a voluntary standard is uncertain, however. Although some of the largest firms
may market some child-resistant multi-purpose lighters that conform to these requirements, most firms (possibly including some of the largest) probably would not. Even under generous assumptions about the level of voluntary conformance, net benefits to consumers would be substantially lower under this alternative than under the standard. Thus, the Commission finds that reliance on voluntary conformance to the provisions of this part 1212 would not adequately reduce the unreasonable risk associated with multi-purpose lighters.
F.
The rule (including its effective date) is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury.
The Commission's hazard data and regulatory analysis demonstrate that multi-purpose lighters covered by the standard pose an unreasonable risk of death and injury to consumers. The Commission considered a number of alternatives to address this risk, and believes that the standard strikes the most reasonable balance between risk reduction benefits and potential costs. Further, the amount of time before the standard becomes effective (one year after publication of the final rule) will provide manufacturers and importers of most products adequate time to design, produce, and market safer multi-purpose lighters. Thus, the Commission finds that the standard and its effective date are reasonably necessary to reduce the risk of fire-related death and injury associated with young children playing with multi-purpose lighters.
G.
The benefits expected from the rule bear a reasonable relationship to its costs.
The standard will substantially reduce the number of fire-related deaths, injuries, and property damage associated with young children playing with multi-purpose lighters. The cost of these accidents, which is estimated to be greater than $48.6 million annually, will also be greatly reduced. The rule is expected to reduce this societal cost by 75-84%, or by greater than $36.5 million. The estimated annual costs to the public are expected to be less than $20 million. Therefore, substantial net benefits will accrue to consumers. Thus, the Commission finds that a reasonable relationship exists between the expected benefits and the expected costs of the standard.
H.
The rule imposes the least burdensome requirement which prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated.
1. The Commission incorporated a number of features from the cigarette lighter standard, 16 CFR part 1210, in order to minimize the potential burden of the rule on industry and consumers. The Commission also considered alternatives involving different performance and test requirements and different definitions determining the scope of coverage among products. Alternatives that would be more burdensome to industry would have higher costs to consumers. Less burdensome alternatives would have lowered the risk-reduction benefits to consumers. No alternative has been identified that would result in a higher level of net benefits to consumers.
2. A less stringent acceptance criterion of 80% (rather than the standard's 85%) might slightly reduce costs to industry and consumers. The safety benefits of this alternative, however, would likely be reduced disproportionately to the potential reduction in costs. A higher (90%) acceptance criterion was also considered. This higher performance level may not be commercially or technically feasible for many firms, however. The Commission believes that this more stringent alternative would have substantial adverse effects on manufacturing and competition, and would increase costs disproportionate to benefits. The Commission believes that the requirement that complying multi-purpose lighters not be operable by at least 85% of children in prescribed tests strikes a reasonable balance between improved safety for a substantial majority of young children and other potential fire victims and the potential for adverse competitive effects and manufacturing disruption.
3. The standard becomes effective 12 months after it is issued December 22, 2000. The Commission also considered an effective date of 6 months after the date of issuance of the final rule. Although most multi-purpose lighters sold in the U.S. could probably be made child-resistant within 6 months, the supply of some imported multi-purpose lighters would be disrupted. The 12-month period in the standard would minimize this potential effect, and would allow more time for firms to design, produce, and import complying multi-purpose lighters. The Commission estimates that there would be no significant adverse impact on the overall supply of multi-purpose lighters for the U.S. market. A longer effective date was deemed unsuitable because it would unduly delay the lifesaving benefits of the standard and would penalize firms that have already begun to develop child-resistant multi-purpose lighters.
I.
The promulgation of the rule is in the public interest.
As required by the CPSA and the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the Commission considered the potential benefits and costs of the standard and various alternatives. The standard provides substantial net benefits to society. Although certain alternatives to the final rule were estimated to also have net benefits to consumers, they would decrease the level of safety. Therefore, the Commission finds that the standard is in the public interest.
Pt. 1213

# PART 1213—SAFETY STANDARD FOR ENTRAPMENT HAZARDS IN BUNK BEDS
Sec.
1213.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
1213.2
Definitions.
1213.3
Requirements.
1213.4
Test methods.
1213.5
Marking and labeling.
1213.6
Instructions.
1213.7
Findings.
Figure 1 to Part 1213—Wedge Block for Tests in § 1213.4(
a
), (
b
), and (
c
)
Figure 2 to Part 1213—Test Template for Neck Entrapment
Figure 3 to Part 1213—Motion of Test Template Arrested by Simultaneous Contact With Both Sides of “A” Section and Boundaries of Opening
Figure 4 to Part 1213—Neck Portion of “B” Section of Template Enters Completely Into Opening
Appendix to Part 1213—Findings Under the Consumer Product Safety Act

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056, 2058.

# Source:
64 FR 71899, Dec. 22, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1213.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
(a)
Scope, basis, and purpose.
This part 1213, a consumer product safety standard, prescribes requirements for bunk beds to reduce or eliminate the risk that children will die or be injured from being trapped between the upper bunk and the wall, in openings below guardrails, or in other structures in the bed.
(b)
Application and effective date.
The standard in this part applies to all bunk beds, except those manufactured only for institutional use, that are manufactured in the United States, or imported, on or after June 19, 2000. (Facilities intended for use by children under age 6 are not considered to be institutions.) Bunk beds intended for use by children are subject to the requirements in 16 CFR 1500.18(a)(18) and 16 CFR part 1513, and not to this part 1213. However, those regulations are substantively identical to the requirements in this part 1213.
§ 1213.2
Definitions.
As used in this part 1213:
Bed.
See
Bunk bed.
Bed end structure
means an upright unit at the head and foot of the bed to which the side rails attach.
Bunk bed
means a bed in which the underside of any foundation is over 30 inches (760 mm) from the floor.
Foundation
means the base or support on which a mattress rests.
Guardrail
means a rail or guard on a side of the upper bunk to prevent a sleeping occupant from falling or rolling out.
§ 1213.3
Requirements.
(a)
Guardrails.
(1) Any bunk bed shall provide at least two guardrails, at least one on each side of the bed, for each bed having the underside of its foundation more than 30 inches (760 mm) from the floor.
(2) One guardrail shall be continuous between each of the bed's end structures. “Continuous” means that any gap between the guardrail and end structure shall not exceed 0.22 inches (5.6 mm) (so as to not cause a finger entrapment hazard for a child).
(3) The other guardrail may terminate before reaching the bed's end structures, providing there is no more than 15 inches (380 mm) between either end of the guardrail and the nearest bed end structures.
(4) For bunk beds designed to have a ladder attached to one side of the bed, the continuous guardrail shall be on the other side of the bed.
(5) Guardrails shall be attached so that they cannot be removed without either intentionally releasing a fastening device or applying forces sequentially in different directions.
(6) The upper edge of the guardrails shall be no less than 5 inches (130 mm) above the top surface of the mattress when a mattress of the maximum thickness specified by the bed manufacturer's instructions is on the bed. This requirement does not prohibit a wall-side guardrail that terminates in a quarter-circle bend and attaches to the side rail of the upper bunk foundation.
(7) With no mattress on the bed, there shall be no openings in the structure between the lower edge of the uppermost member of the guardrail and the underside of the upper bunk's foundation that would permit passage of
the wedge block shown in Figure 1 of this part when tested in accordance with the procedure at § 1213.4(a).
(b)
Bed end structures.
(1) The upper edge of the upper bunk end structures shall be at least 5 inches (130 mm) above the top surface of the mattress for at least 50 percent of the distance between the two posts at the head and foot of the upper bunk when a mattress and foundation of the maximum thickness specified by the manufacturer's instructions is on the bed.
(2) With no mattress on the bed, there shall be no openings in the end structures above the foundation of the upper bunk that will permit the free passage of the wedge block shown in Figure 1 when tested in accordance with the procedure at § 1213.4(b).
(3) When tested in accordance with § 1213.4(c), there shall be no openings in the end structures between the underside of the foundation of the upper bunk and upper side of the foundation of the lower bunk that will permit the free passage of the wedge block shown in Figure 1, unless the openings are also large enough to permit the free passage of a 9-inch (230-mm) diameter rigid sphere.
(4) All portions of the boundary of any opening required by §§ 1213.4(c)(1) and (2) to be probed by the wedge block of Figure 1, and that permits free passage of a 9-inch diameter sphere, must conform to the neck entrapment requirements of § 1213.4(c)(3).
§ 1213.4
Test methods.
(a)
Guardrails
(see § 1213.3(a)(6)). With no mattress on the bed, place the wedge block shown in Figure 1, tapered side first, into each opening in the bed structure below the lower edge of the uppermost member of the guardrail and above the underside of the upper bunk's foundation. Orient the block so that it is most likely to pass through the opening (
e.g.,
the major axis of the block parallel to the major axis of the opening) (“most adverse orientation”). Then gradually apply a 33-lbf (147-N) force in a direction perpendicular to the plane of the large end of the block. Sustain the force for 1 minute.
(b)
Upper bunk end structure
(see § 1213.3(b)(2)). Without a mattress or foundation on the upper bunk, place the wedge block shown in Figure 1 into each opening, tapered side first, and in the most adverse orientation. Determine if the wedge block can pass freely through the opening.
(c)
Lower bunk end structure
(see § 1213.3(b)(3)). (1) Without a mattress or foundation on the lower bunk, place the wedge block shown in Figure 1, tapered side first, into each opening in the lower bunk end structure in the most adverse orientation. Determine whether the wedge block can pass freely through the opening. If the wedge block passes freely through the opening, determine whether a 9-inch (230-mm) diameter rigid sphere can pass freely through the opening.
(2) With the manufacturer's recommended maximum thickness mattress and foundation in place, repeat the test in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3) All portions of the boundary of any opening that is required to be probed by the wedge block of Figure 1 by paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, and that permits free passage of a 9-inch diameter sphere, must satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section addressing neck entrapment.
(i) Insert the “A” section of the test template shown in Figure 2 of this part into the portion of the boundary of the opening to be tested, with the plane of the template in the plane of the opening and with the centerline of the top of the template (as shown in Figure 2) aligned parallel to the centerline of the opening, until motion is stopped by contact between the test template and the boundaries of the opening (see Figure 3 of this part). By visual inspection, determine if there is simultaneous contact between the boundary of the opening and both sides of the “A” section of the template. If simultaneous contact occurs, mark the contact points on the boundary of the opening and conduct the additional test described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.
(ii) To check the potential for neck entrapment, place the neck portion of the “B” section of the template into the opening, with its plane perpendicular to both the plane of the opening and the centerline of the opening
(see Figure 4 of this part). If the neck portion of the “B” section of the template completely enters the opening (passes 0.75 inch or more beyond the points previously contacted by the “A” section of the template), the opening is considered to present a neck entrapment hazard and fails the test, unless its lower boundary slopes downward at 45° or more for the whole distance from the narrowest part of the opening the neck can reach to the part of the opening that will freely pass a 9-inch diameter sphere.
§ 1213.5
Marking and labeling.
(a) There shall be a permanent label or marking on each bed stating the name and address (city, state, and zip code) of the manufacturer, distributor, or retailer; the model number; and the month and year of manufacture.
(b) The following warning label shall be permanently attached to the inside of an upper bunk bed end structure in a location that cannot be covered by the bedding but that may be covered by the placement of a pillow.
ER22DE99.001
§ 1213.6
Instructions.
Instructions shall accompany each bunk bed set, and shall include the following information.
(a)
Size of mattress and foundation.
The length and width of the intended mattress and foundation shall be clearly stated, either numerically or in conventional terms such as twin size, twin extra-long, etc. In addition, the maximum thickness of the mattress and foundation required for compliance with § 1213.3(a)(5) and (b)(1) shall be stated.
(b)
Safety warnings.
The instructions shall provide the following safety warnings:
(1) Do not allow children under 6 years of age to use the upper bunk.
(2) Use guardrails on both sides of the upper bunk.
(3) Prohibit horseplay on or under beds.
(4) Prohibit more than one person on upper bunk.
(5) Use ladder for entering or leaving upper bunk.
(6) If the bunk bed will be placed next to a wall, the guardrail that runs the full length of the bed should be placed against the wall to prevent entrapment between the bed and the wall. (This applies only to bunk beds without two full-length guardrails.)
§ 1213.7
Findings.
The Consumer Product Safety Act requires that the Commission, in order to issue a standard, make the following
findings and include them in the rule. 15 U.S.C. 2058(f)(3). These findings are contained in the appendix to this part 1213.
(a) The rule in this part (including its effective date of June 19, 2000 is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury associated with the product.
[These findings are contained in the appendix to this part 1213.]
(b) Promulgation of the rule is in the public interest.
(c) Where a voluntary standard has been adopted and implemented by the affected industry, that compliance with such voluntary standard is not likely to result in the elimination or adequate reduction of the risk of injury; or it is unlikely that there will be substantial compliance with such voluntary standard.
(d) The benefits expected from the rule bear a reasonable relationship to its costs.
(e) The rule imposes the least burdensome requirement that prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated.
Pt. 1213, Fig. 1

# Figure 1 to Part 1213—Wedge Block for Tests in § 1213.4(
a

# ), (
b

# ) and (
c

# )
ER22DE99.007
Pt. 1213, Fig. 2

# Figure 2 to Part 1213—Test Template for Neck Entrapment
ER22DE99.003
Pt. 1213, Fig. 3

# Figure 3 to Part 1213—Motion of Test Template Arrested by Simultaneous Contact With Both Sides of “A” Section and Boundaries of Opening
ER22DE99.004
Pt. 1213, Fig. 4

# Figure 4 to Part 1213—Neck Portion of “B” Section of Template Enters Completely Into Opening
ER22DE99.005
Pt. 1213, App.

# Appendix to Part 1213—Findings Under the Consumer Product Safety Act
The Consumer Product Safety Act requires that the Commission, in order to issue a standard, make the following findings and include them in the rule. 15 U.S.C. 2058(f)(3). Because of this, the facts and determinations in these findings apply as of the date the rule was issued, December 22, 1999.
A.
The rule in this part
(including its effective date of June 19, 2000)
is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury associated with the product.
1. For a recent 9.6-year period, the CPSC received reports of 57 deaths of children under age 15 who died when they were trapped between the upper bunk of a bunk bed and the wall or when they were trapped in openings in the bed's structure. Over 96% of those who died in entrapment incidents were age 3 or younger. On average, averting these deaths is expected to produce a benefit to society with a present value of about $175 to $350 for each bed that otherwise would not have complied with one or more of the rule's requirements.
2. This increased safety will be achieved in two ways. First, all bunk beds will be required to have a guardrail on both sides of the bed. If the bed is placed against a wall, the guardrail on that side is expected to prevent a child from being entrapped between the bed and the wall. The guardrail on the wall side of the bed must extend continuously from one end to the other. Second, the end structures of the bed must be constructed so that, if an opening in the end structure is large enough so a child can slip his or her body through it, it must be large enough that the child's head also can pass through.
3. For the reasons discussed in paragraph D. of this appendix, the benefits of the
changes to bunk beds caused by this rule will have a reasonable relationship to the changes' costs. The rule addresses a risk of death, and applies primarily to a vulnerable population, children under age 3. The life-saving features required by the rule are cost-effective and can be implemented without adversely affecting the performance and availability of the product. The effective date provides enough time so that production of bunk beds that do not already comply with the standard can easily be changed so that the beds comply. Accordingly, the Commission finds that the rule (including its effective date) is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury associated with the product.
B.
Promulgation of the rule is in the public interest.
For the reasons given in paragraph A. of this appendix, the Commission finds that promulgation of the rule is in the public interest.
C.
Where a voluntary standard has been adopted and implemented by the affected industry, that compliance with such voluntary standard is not likely to result in the elimination or adequate reduction of the risk of injury; or it is unlikely that there will be substantial compliance with such voluntary standard.
1.
Adequacy of the voluntary standard.
i. In this instance, there is a voluntary standard addressing the risk of entrapment in bunk beds. However, the rule goes beyond the provisions of the voluntary standard. First, it eliminates the voluntary standard's option to have an opening of up to 15 inches at each end of the wall-side guardrail. Second, it requires more of the lower bunk end structures to have entrapment protection. The voluntary standard protects against entrapment only within the 9-inch space immediately above the upper surface of the lower bunk's mattress. The mandatory standard extends this area of protection upward to the level of the underside of the upper bunk foundation. Both of these provisions, which are in the rule but not in the voluntary standard, address fatalities and, as noted in paragraph D of this appendix, have benefits that bear a reasonable relationship to their costs.
ii. Therefore, the Commission finds that compliance with the voluntary standard is not likely to result in the elimination or adequate reduction of the risk of entrapment injury or death.
2.
Substantial compliance.
i. Neither the CPSA nor the FHSA define “substantial compliance.” The March 3, 1999 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking summarized an interpretation of “substantial compliance” that the Office of General Counsel provided to the Commission. 64 Fed. Reg. 10245, 10248-49 (March 3, 1999). The Commission specifically invited public comment on that interpretation from “all persons who would be affected by such an interpretation.”
Id.
at 10249. The Commission received more than 20 comments on the interpretation.
ii. Having now considered all the evidence that the staff has presented, the comments from the public, and the legal advice from the Office of General Counsel, the Commission concludes that there is not “substantial compliance” with the ASTM voluntary standard for bunk beds within the meaning of the Consumer Product Safety Act and the Federal Hazardous Substances Act. See,
e.g.,
15 U.S.C. 2058(f)(3)(D)(ii); 15 U.S.C. 1262(i)(2)(A)(ii). However, the Commission does not adopt a general interpretation of “substantial compliance” focusing on whether the level of compliance with a voluntary standard could be improved under a mandatory standard. Rather, the grounds for the Commission's decision focus on the specific facts of this rulemaking and are stated below.
iii. The legislative history regarding the meaning of “substantial compliance” indicates that the Commission should consider whether compliance is sufficient to eliminate or adequately reduce the risk of injury in a timely fashion and that, generally, compliance should be measured in terms of the number of complying products, rather than the number of manufacturers who are in compliance.
E.g.,
Senate Report No. 97-102, p. 14 (May 15, 1981); House Report No. 97-158, p. 11 (June 19, 1981); H. Conf. Rep. No. 97-208, 97th Cong., 1st Sess. 871, reprinted in 1981 U.S. Code Cong.
Admin. News 1010, 1233.
iv. Given this Congressional guidance, the Commission believes it appropriate to examine the number of conforming products as the starting point for analysis. However, the Commission does not believe that there is any single percentage of conforming products that can be used in all cases to define “substantial compliance.” Instead, the percentage must be viewed in the context of the hazard the product presents. Thus, the Commission must examine what constitutes substantial compliance with a voluntary standard in light of its obligation to safeguard the American consumer.
v. There are certain factors the agency considers before it initiates regulatory action, such as the severity of the potential injury, whether there is a vulnerable population at risk, and the risk of injury. See 16 CFR 1009.8. These and other factors also appropriately inform the Commission's decision regarding whether a certain level of conformance with a voluntary standard is substantial. In the light of these factors, industry's compliance rate with the voluntary standard for bunk beds is not substantial.
vi. In this case, the Commission deals with the most severe risk—death—to one of the most vulnerable segments of our population—infants and young children. While
the risk of death is not high, it exists whenever a young child is in a residence with a nonconforming bunk bed.
vii. Additionally, some products, such as hairdryers without shock protection devices, require some intervening action (dropping the hair dryer into water) to create the hazard. By contrast, deaths in bunk beds occur during the intended use of the product—a child rolling over in bed or climbing in or out of it—without any intervening action.
viii. The Commission must also consider that bunk beds have a very long product life, frequently being passed on to several families before being discarded. Thus, a number of children may be exposed to a bed during its useful life. Every noncomplying bed that poses an entrapment hazard presents the potential risk of death to any young child in the house. It is a risk that is hard for a parent to protect against, as children find their way onto these beds even if they are not put to sleep in them.
ix. Bunk beds are products that can be made relatively easily by very small companies, or even by a single individual. The Office of Compliance believes smaller entities will always present a compliance problem, because new manufacturers can enter the marketplace relatively easily and need little expertise to make a wooden bunk bed. The evidence seems to support the view that there will always be an irreducible number of new, smaller bunk bed manufacturers who will not follow the voluntary standard.
x. What constitutes substantial compliance is also a function of what point in time the issue is examined. In 1989, the Commission denied a petition for a mandatory bunk bed rule. At that time, industry was predicting that by April of 1989, 90% of all beds being manufactured would comply with the voluntary guidelines. But that was in the context of years of steadily increasing conformance and the hope that conformance would continue to grow and that deaths and near-misses would begin to decline. But the conformance level never grew beyond the projection for 1989 and deaths and near-misses have not dropped.
xi. Even with the existing compliance rate, the Commission is contemplating the prospect of perhaps 50,000 nonconforming beds a year (or more) entering the marketplace, with many beds remaining in use for perhaps 20 years or longer. Under these circumstances, a 10% rate of noncompliance is too high.
xii. It is now clear that the bunk bed voluntary standard has not achieved an adequate reduction of the unreasonable risk of death to infants and children in a timely fashion, and it is unlikely to do so. Accordingly, the Commission finds that substantial compliance with the voluntary standard for bunk beds is unlikely.
xiii. Products that present some or all of the following factors might not be held to as strict a substantial compliance analysis. Those which:
—Rarely or never cause death;
—Cause only less severe injuries;
—Do not cause deaths or injuries principally to a vulnerable segment of the population;
—Are not intended for children and which have no special attraction for children;
—Have a relatively short life span;
—Are made by a few stable manufacturers or which can only be made by specialized manufacturers needing a significant manufacturing investment to produce the product;
—Are covered by a voluntary standard which continues to capture an increasing amount of noncomplying products; or
—Require some additional intervening action to be hazardous.
xiv. And, in analyzing some other product, there could be other factors that would have to be taken into consideration in determining what level of compliance is adequate to protect the public. The tolerance for nonconformance levels has to bear some relationship to the magnitude and manageability of the hazard addressed.
xv. The Commission emphasizes that its decision is not based on the argument that a mandatory rule provides more powerful enforcement tools. If this were sufficient rationale, mandatory rules could always displace voluntary standards, and this clearly was not Congress's intent. But, with a mandatory standard, the necessity of complying with a mandatory federal regulation will be understandable to small manufacturers. State and local governments will have no doubt about their ability to help us in our efforts to locate these manufacturers.
D.
The benefits expected from the rule bear a reasonable relationship to its costs.
1.
Bunk beds that do not comply with ASTM's requirements for guardrails.
The cost of providing a second guardrail for bunk beds that do not have one is expected to be from $15-40 per otherwise noncomplying bed. If, as expected, the standard prevents virtually all of the deaths it addresses, the present value of the benefits of this modification are estimated to be from $175-350 per otherwise noncomplying bed. Thus, the benefit of this provision is about 4-23 times its cost.
2.
Bunk beds that comply with ASTM's requirements for guardrails.
The voluntary standard allows up to a 15-inch gap in the coverage of the guardrail on the wall side of the upper bunk. Additional entrapment deaths are addressed by requiring that the wall-side guardrail be continuous from one end of the bed to the other. The estimated present value of the benefits of this requirement is $2.40 to $3.50 per otherwise noncomplying bed. The Commission estimates that
the materials cost to extend one guardrail an additional 30 inches (760 mm) will be less than the present value of the benefits of making the change. Further, the costs of any design changes can be amortized over the number the bunk beds manufactured after the design change is made. Thus, the costs of any design change will be nominal.
3.
Lower bunk end structures.
The Commission is aware of a death, involving entrapment in the end structures of the lower bunk, occurring in a scenario not currently addressed by the voluntary standard. This death would be addressed by extending the voluntary standard's lower bunk end structures entrapment provisions from 9 inches above the lower bunk's sleeping surface to the bottom of the upper bunk and by also including a test for neck entrapment in this area. The Commission expects the costs of this requirement to be design-related only, and small. Indeed, for some bunk beds, materials costs may decrease since less material may be required to comply with these requirements than is currently being used. Again, the design costs for these modifications to the end structures can be amortized over the subsequent production run of the bed.
4.
Effect on market.
The small additional costs from any wall-side guardrails and end-structure modifications are not expected to affect the market for bunk beds, either alone or added to the costs of compliance to ASTM's provisions.
5.
Conclusion.
The Commission has no reason to conclude that any of the standard's requirements will have costs that exceed the requirement's expected benefits. Further, the total effect of the rule is that the benefits of the rule will exceed its costs by about 4-23 times. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that the benefits expected from the rule bear a reasonable relationship to its costs.
E.
The rule imposes the least burdensome requirement that prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated.
1. The Commission considered relying on the voluntary standard, either alone or combined with a third-party certification program. However, the Commission concluded that a mandatory program will be more effective in reducing these deaths, each of which is caused by an unreasonable risk of entrapment. Accordingly, these alternatives would not prevent or adequately reduce the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated.
2. The Commission also considered a suggestion that bunk beds that conformed to the voluntary standard be so labeled. Consumers could then compare conforming and nonconforming beds at the point of purchase and make their purchase decisions with this safety information in mind. This, however, would not necessarily reduce injuries, because consumers likely would not know there is a voluntary standard and thus would not see any risk in purchasing a bed that was not labeled as conforming to the standard.
3. For the reasons stated in this appendix, no alternatives to a mandatory rule have been suggested that would adequately reduce the deaths caused by entrapment of children in bunk beds. Accordingly, the Commission finds that this rule imposes the least burdensome requirement that prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated.
Pt. 1215

# PART 1215—SAFETY STANDARD FOR INFANT BATH SEATS
Sec.
1215.1
Scope.
1215.2
Requirements for infant bath seats.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (August 14, 2008); Sec. 3, Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273 (August 12, 2011).

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 81828, Oct. 9, 2024, the authority citation for part 1215 was revised, effective Jan. 4, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056a.

# Source:
75 FR 31698, June 4, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1215.1
Scope.
This part 1215 establishes a consumer product safety standard for infant bath seats manufactured or imported on or after December 6, 2010.
§ 1215.2
Requirements for infant bath seats.
Each infant bath seat shall comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F1967-19, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Infant Bath Seats, approved May 1, 2019. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference listed in this section in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of this ASTM standard from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, PO Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959 USA; phone: 610-832-9585;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the
National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[84 FR 49439, Sept. 20, 2019]
§ 1215.2, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 81828, Oct. 9, 2024, § 1215.2 was revised, effective Jan. 4, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1215.2
Requirements for infant bath seats.
Each infant bath seat must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F1967-24,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Infant Bath Seats,
approved June 1, 2024. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference listed in this section in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy of this ASTM standard from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone: (610) 832-9500;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814; telephone: (301) 504-7479; email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov;
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
Pt. 1216

# PART 1216—SAFETY STANDARD FOR INFANT WALKERS
Sec.
1216.1
Scope.
1216.2
Requirements for infant walkers.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056a.

# Source:
75 FR 35273, June 21, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1216.1
Scope.
This part 1216 establishes a consumer product safety standard for infant walkers manufactured or imported on or after December 21, 2010.
§ 1216.2
Requirements for infant walkers.
Each infant walker must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F977-22e1,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Infant Walkers.
ASTM F977-22e1,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Infant Walkers,
approved June 15, 2022 is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
[87 FR 73245, Nov. 29, 2022]
Pt. 1217

# PART 1217—SAFETY STANDARD FOR TODDLER BEDS
Sec.
1217.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
1217.2
Requirements for toddler beds.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (15 U.S.C. 2056a); Sec 3, Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273.

# Source:
76 FR 22028, Apr. 20, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1217.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
This part 1217 establishes a consumer product safety standard for toddler beds manufactured or imported on or after October 20, 2011.
§ 1217.2
Requirements for toddler beds.
Each toddler bed shall comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F1821-19
ε
1
, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Toddler Beds, approved June 1, 2019. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference listed in this section in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a
copy of this ASTM standard from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959 USA; phone: 610-832-9585;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[84 FR 57318, Oct. 25, 2019]
Pt. 1218

# PART 1218—SAFETY STANDARD FOR BASSINETS AND CRADLES
Sec.
1218.1
Scope.
1218.2
Requirements for bassinets and cradles.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (August 14, 2008); Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273 (August 12, 2011).

# Source:
78 FR 63034, Oct. 23, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1218.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for bassinets and cradles manufactured or imported on or after April 23, 2014, except for the removable bassinet bed attachment requirements at § 1218.2(b)(3)(i) through (iv), (b)(5), and (b)(7), which are effective April 23, 2015.
§ 1218.2
Requirements for bassinets and cradles.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each bassinet and cradle must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2194-13, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Bassinets and Cradles, approved on April 1, 2013. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Bar Harbor Drive, P.O. Box 0700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428;
http://www.astm.org/cpsc.htm.
You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) Comply with ASTM F2194-13 standard with the following additions or exclusions:
(1) Instead of complying with Note 1 of section 1.3.1 of ASTM F2194-13, comply with the following:
(i)
Note 1
—Cradle swings with an incline less than or equal to 10° from horizontal while in the rest (non-rocking) position are covered under the scope of this standard. A sleep product that only has inclined sleeping surfaces (intended to be greater than 10° from horizontal while in the rest (non-rocking) position) does not fall under the scope of this standard. If a product can be converted to a bassinet/cradle use mode and meets the definition of a bassinet/cradle found in 3.1.1 while in that mode, the product shall be included in the scope of this standard, when it is in the bassinet/cradle use mode. For example, strollers that have a carriage/bassinet feature are covered by the stroller/carriage standard when in the stroller use mode. Carriage baskets/bassinets that are removable from the stroller base are covered under the scope of this standard when the carriage basket/bassinet meets the definition of a bassinet/cradle found in 3.1.1. In addition, bassinet/cradle attachments to cribs or play yards, as defined in 3.1.2 or 3.1.13, are included in the scope of the standard when in the bassinet/cradle use mode.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) Add “CAMI Newborn Dummy (see Figure 1A). Drawing numbers 126-0000 through 126-0015 (sheets 1 through 3), 126-0017 through 126-0027, a parts list entitled “Parts List for CAMI Newborn Dummy,” and a construction manual entitled “Construction of the Newborn Infant Dummy” (July 1992). Copies of the materials may be inspected at NHTSA's Docket Section, 400 Seventh Street SW., Room 5109, Washington,
DC, or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capital Street NW., Suite 700, Washington, DC.” to “2.3 Other References” and use the following figure:
ER23OC13.000
(3) In addition to complying with section 3.1.17 of ASTM F2194-13, comply with the following:
(i) 3.1.18.
bassinet bed, n
—the sleeping area of the bassinet/cradle, containing the sleep surface and side walls.
(ii) 3.1.19.
removable bassinet bed, n
—A bassinet bed that is designed to separate from the base/stand without the use of tools. Play yard bassinets, as defined in 3.1.13, are excluded from this definition.
(iii) 3.1.20.
false lock/latch visual indicator, n
—a warning system, using contrasting colors, lights, or other similar means designed to visually alert caregivers when a removable bassinet bed is not properly locked onto its base/stand.
(iv) 3.1.21.
intended use orientation,
n
—The bassinet bed orientation (
i.e.,
the position where the head and foot ends of the bassinet bed are located), with respect to the base/stand, as recommended by the manufacturer for intended use.
(4) Instead of complying with section 6.7 of ASTM F2194-13, comply with the following:
(i) 6.7.
Bassinets with Segmented Mattresses: Flatness Test
—If the bassinet or bassinet accessory has a folding or segmented mattress, or both, any angle when measured in 7.8 less than or equal to 10° is an immediate pass. Any angle when measured in 7.8 greater than 10° is an immediate failure. Segmented bassinet mattresses that have seams (located between segments or where the mattress folds) that are less than 15 inches in length are excluded from this requirement.
(ii) [Reserved]
(5) In addition to complying with section 6.9.2 of ASTM F2194-13, comply with the following:
(i) 6.10.
Removable Bassinet Bed Attachment
—Any product containing a removable bassinet bed with a latching or locking device intended to secure the bassinet bed to the base/stand, shall comply with at least one of the following 6.10.1, 6.10.2, 6.10.3, 6.10.4 or 6.10.5 when tested in accordance with 7.12.
(ii) 6.10.1. The base/stand shall not support the bassinet bed (i.e., the bassinet bed falls from the stand and contacts the floor or the base/stand collapses when the bassinet bed is not locked on the base/stand).
(iii) 6.10.2. The lock/latch shall automatically engage under the weight of the bassinet bed (without any other
force or action) in all lateral positions (Figure 24).
(iv) 6.10.3. The sleep surface of the bassinet bed shall be at an angle of at least 20° from a horizontal plane when the bassinet bed is in an unlocked position.
(v) 6.10.4. The bassinet/cradle shall provide a false latch/lock visual indicator(s). At a minimum, an indicator shall be visible to a person standing near both of the two longest sides of the product.
(vi) 6.10.5. The bassinet bed shall not tip over and shall retain the CAMI newborn dummy when tested in accordance with 7.12.4.3.
(6) Instead of complying with section 7.4.4 of ASTM F2194-13, comply with the following:
(i) 7.4.4. Place the CAMI Newborn Dummy, Mark II, on the sleeping pad in the center of the product face up with the arms and legs straightened.
(A)
Rationale.
The newborn CAMI dummy represents a 50th percentile newborn infant, which is a more appropriate user of a bassinet than the CAMI infant dummy, which represents a 50th percentile 6-month-old infant.
(B) [Reserved]
(ii) [Reserved]
(7) In addition to complying with section 7.11.4 of ASTM F2194-13, comply with the following:
(i) 7.12.
Removable Bassinet Bed Attachment Tests
(ii) 7.12.1. Assemble the bassinet/cradle base/stand only, in accordance with manufacturer's instructions in one of the manufacturer's recommended use positions. If the base/stand does not remain in the use position when the bassinet bed is not locked onto it, the product meets the requirements of 6.10.1.
(iii) 7.12.2. Place the base/stand and the inclinometer on a flat level horizontal surface (0 ±−0.5°) to establish a test plane. Zero the inclinometer.
(iv) 7.12.3. Remove the mattress pad from the bassinet bed.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(7)(
iv

# ):
For mattresses that are integral with the mattress support, do not remove the mattress and perform all angle measurements for 7.12 on a 6 by 6 by
3/8
-in. nominal aluminum block placed on the center of the mattress.
(v) 7.12.4. Place the bassinet bed on the base/stand in the intended use orientation without engaging any latch or lock mechanism between the base/stand and the bassinet bed. If the bed automatically engages to the base/stand do not disengage the lock/latch. If the bassinet bed can rest on the base/stand in its intended use orientation in one or more lateral unlocked position (Figure 24), the unit shall be evaluated in the lateral position most likely to fail the requirements specified in 6.10.
(vi) Figure 24: Bassinet Bed Resting on Stand, Showing Possible Alternate Lateral Positions.
ER23OC13.001
(vii) 7.12.4.1. If the base/stand supports the bassinet bed in any unlocked position, place the inclinometer on the mattress support at the approximate center of the mattress support. Care should be taken to avoid seams, snap fasteners, or other items that may affect the measurement reading. Record the angle measurement.
(viii) 7.12.4.2. If the base/stand supports the bassinet bed and the angle of the mattress support surface measured in 7.12.4.1 is less than 20 degrees from a horizontal plane, evaluate whether the bassinet has a false latch/lock visual indicator per 6.10.4.
(ix) 7.12.4.3. If the base/stand supports the bassinet bed, and the angle of the mattress support surface measured in 7.12.4.1 is less than 20 degrees from a horizontal plane, and the bassinet does not contain a false latch/lock visual indicator, test the unit in accordance with sections 7.4.2 through 7.4.7.
(x) 7.12.5. Repeat 7.12.2 through 7.12.4 for all of the manufacturer's base/stand recommended positions and use modes.
(xi) 7.12.6. Repeat 7.12.4 through 7.12.5 with the bassinet bed rotated 180 degrees from the manufacturers recommended use orientation, if the base/stand supports the bassinet bed in this orientation.
(A)
Rationale.
(
1
) This test requirement addresses fatal and nonfatal incidents involving bassinet beds that tipped over or fell off their base/stand when they were not properly locked/latched to their base/stand or the latch failed to engage as intended. Products that appear to be in an intended use position when the lock or latch is not properly engaged can create a false sense of security by appearing to be stable. Unsecured or misaligned lock/latch systems are a hidden hazard because they are not easily seen by consumers due to being located beneath the bassinet or covered by decorative skirts. In addition, consumers will avoid activating lock/latch mechanisms for numerous reasons if a bassinet bed appears stable when placed on a stand/base. Because of these foreseeable use conditions, this requirement has been added to ensure that bassinets with a removable bassinet bed feature will be inherently stable or it is obvious that they are not properly secured.
(
2
) 6.10 allows bassinet bed designs that:
(
i
) Cannot be supported by the base/stand in an unlocked configuration,
(
ii
) Automatically lock and cannot be placed in an unlocked position on the base/stand,
(
iii
) Are clearly and obviously unstable when the lock/latch is misaligned or unused,
(
iv
) Provide a visual warning to consumers when the product is not properly locked onto the base/stand, or
(
v
) Have lock/latch mechanisms that are not necessary to provide needed stability.
(B) [Reserved]
[78 FR 63034, Oct. 23, 2013; 78 FR 77574, Dec. 24, 2013]
Pt. 1219

# PART 1219—SAFETY STANDARD FOR FULL-SIZE BABY CRIBS
Sec.
1219.1
Scope, compliance dates, and definitions.
1219.2
Requirements for full-size baby cribs.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (August 14, 2008); Sec. 3, Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273 (August 12, 2011).

# Source:
75 FR 81786, Dec. 28, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1219.1
Scope, compliance dates, and definitions.
(a)
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for new and used full-size baby cribs.
(b)
Compliance dates.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, compliance with this part 1219 shall be required on June 28, 2011, and applies to the manufacture, sale, contract for sale or resale, lease, sublet, offer, provision for use, or other placement in the stream of commerce of a new or used full-size baby crib on or after that date.
(2) Child care facilities, family child care homes, and places of public accommodation affecting commerce shall be required to comply with this part on December 28, 2012, but this provision applies only to the offer or provision for use of cribs by child care facilities, family child care homes, and places of public accommodation affecting commerce and not the sale, resale, or other
placement in the stream of commerce of cribs by these entities.
(c)
Definitions.
(1)
Full-size baby crib
means a bed that is:
(i) Designed to provide sleeping accommodations for an infant;
(ii) Intended for use in the home, in a child care facility, a family child care home, or place of public accommodation affecting commerce; and
(iii) Within a range of ±5.1 cm (±2 in.) of the following interior dimensions: The interior dimensions shall be 71 ±1.6 cm (28 ±
5/8
in.) wide as measured between the innermost surfaces of the crib sides and 133 ±1.6 cm (52
3/8
±
5/8
in.) long as measured between the innermost surfaces of the crib end panels, slats, rods, or spindles. Both measurements are to be made at the level of the mattress support spring in each of its adjustable positions and no more than 5 cm (2 in.) from the crib corner posts or from the first spindle to the corresponding point of the first spindle at the other end of the crib. If a crib has contoured or decorative spindles, in either or both of the sides or ends, the measurement shall be determined from the largest diameter of the first turned spindle within a range of 10 cm (4 in.) above the mattress support spring in each of its adjustable positions, to a corresponding point on the first spindle or innermost surface of the opposite side of the crib.
(2)
Place of public accommodation affecting commerce
means any inn, hotel, or other establishment that provides lodging to transient guests, except that such term does not include an establishment treated as an apartment building for purposes of any State or local law or regulation or an establishment located within a building that contains not more than five rooms for rent or hire and that is actually occupied as a residence by the proprietor of such establishment.
§ 1219.2
Requirements for full-size baby cribs.
Each full-size baby crib must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F1169-19,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Full-Size Baby Cribs
approved March 15, 2019. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference listed in this section in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of this ASTM standard from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959 USA; phone: 610-832-9585;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[84 FR 35296, July 23, 2019]
Pt. 1220

# PART 1220—SAFETY STANDARD FOR NON-FULL-SIZE BABY CRIBS
Sec.
1220.1
Scope, compliance dates, and definitions.
1220.2
Requirements for non-full-size baby cribs.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2051 Notes; 15 U.S.C. 2056a.

# Source:
75 FR 81787, Dec. 28, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1220.1
Scope, compliance dates, and definitions.
(a)
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for new and used non-full-size baby cribs.
(b)
Compliance dates.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, compliance with this part 1220 shall be required on June 28, 2011, and applies to the manufacture, sale, contract for sale or resale, lease, sublet, offer, provision for use, or other placement in the stream of commerce of a new or used non-full-size baby crib on or after that date.
(2) Child care facilities, family child care homes, and places of public accommodation affecting commerce shall be required to comply with this part on December 28, 2012, but this provision applies only to the offer or provision for use of cribs by child care facilities, family child care homes, and places of public accommodation affecting commerce and not the sale, resale, or other
placement in the stream of commerce of cribs by these entities.
(c)
Definitions.
(1)
Non-full-size baby crib
means a bed that is:
(i) Designed to provide sleeping accommodations for an infant;
(ii) Intended for use in or around the home, for travel, in a child care facility, in a family child care home, in a place of public accommodation affecting commerce and other purposes;
(iii) Has an interior length dimension either greater than 139.7 cm (55 in.) or smaller than 126.3 cm (49
3/4
in.), or, an interior width dimension either greater than 77.7 cm (30
5/8
in.) or smaller than 64.3 cm (25
3/8
in.), or both;
(iv) Includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(A)
Portable crib
—a non-full-size baby crib designed so that it may be folded or collapsed, without disassembly, to occupy a volume substantially less than the volume it occupies when it is used.
(B)
Crib pen
—a non-full-size baby crib with rigid sides the legs of which may be removed or adjusted to provide a play pen or play yard for a child.
(C)
Specialty crib
—an unconventionally shaped (circular, hexagonal, etc.) non-full-size baby crib incorporating a special mattress or other unconventional components.
(D)
Undersize crib
—a non-full-size baby crib with an interior length dimension smaller than 126.3 cm (49
3/4
in.), or an interior width dimension smaller than 64.3 cm (25
3/8
in.), or both.
(E)
Oversize crib
—a non-full-size baby crib with an interior length dimension greater than 139.7 cm (55 in.), or an interior width dimension greater than 77.7 cm (30
5/8
in.), or both.
(v) Does not include mesh/net/screen cribs, nonrigidly constructed baby cribs, cradles (both rocker and pendulum types), car beds, baby baskets, and bassinets (also known as junior cribs).
(2)
Play yard
means a framed enclosure that includes a floor and has mesh or fabric sided panels primarily intended to provide a play or sleeping environment for children. It may fold for storage or travel.
(3)
Place of public accommodation affecting commerce
means any inn, hotel, or other establishment that provides lodging to transient guests, except that such term does not include an establishment treated as an apartment building for purposes of any State or local law or regulation or an establishment located within a building that contains not more than five rooms for rent or hire and that is actually occupied as a residence by the proprietor of such establishment.
§ 1220.2
Requirements for non-full-size baby cribs.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each non-full-size baby crib shall comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F406-22,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Non-Full-Size Baby Cribs/Play Yards,
approved on October 1, 2022. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
A free, read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may also obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; phone: (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
(b) Comply with the ASTM F406-22 standard with the following exclusions:
(1) Do not comply with sections 5.6.2 through 5.6.2.4 of ASTM F406-22.
(2) Do not comply with section 5.16.2 through 5.16.2.2 of ASTM F406-22.
(3) Do not comply with sections 5.19 through 5.19.2.2 of ASTM F406-22.
(4) Do not comply with section 7,
Performance Requirements for Mesh/Fabric Products,
of ASTM F406-22.
(5) Do not comply with sections 8.11 through 8.11.2.4 of ASTM F406-22.
(6) Do not comply with sections 8.12 through 8.12.2.2 of ASTM F406-22.
(7) Do not comply with sections 8.14 through 8.14.2 of ASTM F406-22.
(8) Do not comply with sections 8.15 through 8.15.3.3 of ASTM F406-22.
(9) Do not comply with section 8.16 through 8.16.3 of ASTM F406-22.
(10) Do not comply with sections 8.28 through 8.28.3.2 of ASTM F406-22.
(11) Do not comply with sections 8.29 through 8.29.3 of ASTM F406-22.
(12) Do not comply with sections 8.30 through 8.30.5 of ASTM F406-22.
(13) Do not comply with sections 8.31 through 8.31.9 of ASTM F406-22.
(14) Do not comply with sections 9.3.2 through 9.3.2.4 of ASTM F406-22.
[88 FR 13691, June 6, 2023]
Pt. 1221

# PART 1221—SAFETY STANDARD FOR PLAY YARDS
Sec.
1221.1
Scope.
1221.2
Requirements for play yards.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (15 U.S.C. 2056a).

# Source:
77 FR 52228, Aug. 29, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1221.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for play yards manufactured or imported on or after January 20, 2020.
[84 FR 56689, Oct. 23, 2019]
§ 1221.2
Requirements for play yards.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each play yard must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F406-19,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Non-Full-Size Baby Cribs/Play Yards,
approved on March 15, 2019. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of this ASTM standard from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, PO Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
(b) Comply with the ASTM F406-19 standard with the following exclusions:
(1) Do not comply with section 5.17 of ASTM F406-19.
(2) Do not comply with section 5.20 of ASTM F406-19.
(3) Do not comply with section 6,
Performance Requirements for Rigid Sided Products,
of ASTM F406-19.
(4) Do not comply with sections 8.1 through 8.10.5 of ASTM F406-19.
(5) Instead of complying with section 9.4.2.10 of ASTM F406-19, comply only with the following:
(i) 9.4.2.10 For products that have a separate mattress that is not permanently fixed in place: Use ONLY mattress/pad provided by manufacturer.
(ii) [Reserved]
(6) Do not comply with section 10.1.1.1 of ASTM F406-19.
[84 FR 56689, Oct. 23, 2019]
Pt. 1222

# PART 1222—SAFETY STANDARD FOR BEDSIDE SLEEPERS
Sec.
1222.1
Scope.
1222.2
Requirements for bedside sleepers.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056a.

# Source:
79 FR 2589, Jan. 15, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1222.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for bedside sleepers.
§ 1222.2
Requirements for bedside sleepers.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each bedside sleeper shall comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2906-23,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Bedside Sleepers,
approved on January 1, 2023. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the U.S.
Consumer Product Safety Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
A free, read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may also obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; phone: (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
(b) Each bedside sleeper shall comply with the ASTM F2906-23 standard except in sections 2.1, 5.1, 5.6, 7.1, and 8.1 of ASTM F2906-23, replace both “F2194 Consumer Safety Specification for Bassinets and Cradles” and “Consumer Specification F2194,” with “16 CFR part 1218 Safety Standard for Bassinets and Cradles.”
[88 FR 29825, May 9, 2023]
Pt. 1223

# PART 1223—SAFETY STANDARD FOR INFANT AND CRADLE SWINGS
Sec.
1223.1
Scope.
1223.2
Requirements for infant and cradle swings.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056a.

# Source:
89 FR 46801, May 30, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1223.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for infant and cradle swings (including combination swings).
§ 1223.2
Requirements for infant and cradle swings.
Each infant and cradle swing (including combination swings) must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2088-24,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Infant and Cradle Swings,
approved on February 1, 2024. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.
A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9500;
www.astm.org.
Pt. 1224

# PART 1224—SAFETY STANDARD FOR PORTABLE BED RAILS
Sec.
1224.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
1224.2
Requirements for portable bed rails.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (15 U.S.C. 2056a); Sec 3, Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273.

# Source:
77 FR 12197, Feb. 29, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1224.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for portable bed rails manufactured or imported on or after August 29, 2012.
§ 1224.2
Requirements for portable bed rails.
Each portable bed rail as defined in ASTM F2085-19,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Portable Bed Rails,
approved on November 1, 2019, must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2085-19. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference listed in this section in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of this ASTM standard from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, PO Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959 USA; phone: 610-832-9585;
www.astm.org.
A
read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7479, email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
.
[85 FR 10568, Feb. 25, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 40876, July 8, 2020]
Pt. 1225

# PART 1225—SAFETY STANDARD FOR HAND-HELD INFANT CARRIERS
Sec.
1225.1
Scope.
1225.2
Requirements for hand-held infant carriers.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056a(b)(4)(B).

# Source:
78 FR 73424, Dec. 6, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1225.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for hand-held infant carriers.
§ 1225.2
Requirements for hand-held infant carriers.
Each hand-held infant carrier must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2050-19,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Hand-Held Infant Carriers,
approved on December 15, 2019. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference listed in this section in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of this ASTM standard from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959 USA; phone: 610-832-9585;
www.astm.org.
A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7479, email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[85 FR 30608, May 20, 2020; 85 FR 40876, July 8, 2020]
Pt. 1226

# PART 1226—SAFETY STANDARD FOR SOFT INFANT AND TODDLER CARRIERS
Sec.
1226.1
Scope.
1226.2
Requirements for soft infant and toddler carriers.

# Authority:
The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, Pub. L. 110-314, Sec. 104, 122 Stat. 3016 (August 14, 2008); Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273 (August 12, 2011).

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 91551, Nov. 20, 2024, the authority citation for part 1226 was revised, effective Feb. 22, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056a.

# Source:
79 FR 17433, Mar. 28, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1226.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for soft infant and toddler carriers.
§ 1226.2
Requirements for soft infant and toddler carriers.
(a) Each soft infant and toddler carrier must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2236-14, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Soft Infant and Toddler Carriers, approved on January 1, 2014. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Bar Harbor Drive, P.O. Box 0700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428;
http://www.astm.org/cpsc.htm.
You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1226.2, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 91551, Nov. 20, 2024, § 1226.2 was revised, effective Feb. 22, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1226.2
Requirements for soft infant and toddler carriers.
Each soft infant and toddler carrier must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2236-24,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Soft Infant and Toddler Carriers,
approved on July 1, 2024. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone: (301) 504-7479, email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email:
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may also obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone: (610) 832-9500;
www.astm.org.
Pt. 1227

# PART 1227—SAFETY STANDARD FOR CARRIAGES AND STROLLERS
Sec.
1227.1
Scope.
1227.2
Requirements for carriages and strollers.

# Authority:
The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, Pub. L. 110-314, § 104, 122 Stat. 3016 (August 14, 2008); Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273 (August 12, 2011).

# Source:
79 FR 13216, Mar. 10, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1227.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for carriages and strollers.
§ 1227.2
Requirements for carriages and strollers.
Each carriage and stroller shall comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F833-21, Standard Consumer Safety Performance Specification for Carriages and Strollers, approved June 15, 2021. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; phone: (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[86 FR 64349, Nov. 18, 2021]
Pt. 1228

# PART 1228—SAFETY STANDARD FOR SLING CARRIERS
Sec.
1228.1
Scope.
1228.2
Requirements for sling carriers.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (15 U.S.C. 2056a).

# Source:
82 FR 8687, Jan. 30, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1228.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for sling carriers.
§ 1228.2
Requirements for sling carriers.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each sling carrier must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2907-22,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Sling Carriers,
approved on April 1, 2022. The Director of the Federal Register approves
this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, PO Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
(b)(1) Comply with ASTM F2907-22 standard with the following changes:
(i) In addition to complying with section 5.7.2 of ASTM F2907-22, comply with the following:
(ii) 5.7.3 Warning labels that are attached to the fabric with seams shall remain in contact with the fabric around the entire perimeter of the label, when the sling is in all manufacturer recommended use positions.
(2) [Reserved]
[87 FR 50934, Aug. 19, 2022]
Pt. 1229

# PART 1229—SAFETY STANDARD FOR INFANT BOUNCER SEATS
Sec.
1229.1
Scope.
1229.2
Requirements for infant bouncer seats.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (15 U.S.C. 2056a).

# Source:
82 FR 43480, Sept. 18, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1229.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for infant bouncer seats.
§ 1229.2
Requirements for infant bouncer seats.
Each infant bouncer seat must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2167-22,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Infant Bouncer Seats,
approved on approved May 1, 2022. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[87 FR 54366, Sept. 6, 2022]
Pt. 1230

# PART 1230—SAFETY STANDARD FOR FRAME CHILD CARRIERS
Sec.
1230.1
Scope.
1230.2
Requirements for frame child carriers.

# Authority:
The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, Pub. L. 110-314, § 104, 122 Stat. 3016 (August 14, 2008); Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273 (August 12, 2011).

# Source:
80 FR 11121, Mar. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1230.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for frame child carriers.
§ 1230.2
Requirements for frame child carriers.
Each frame child carrier must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2549-22,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Frame Child Carriers,
approved on approved April 1, 2022. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A read-only copy of the standard is available for
viewing on the ASTM website at
www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[87 FR 53662, Sept. 1, 2022]
Pt. 1231

# PART 1231—SAFETY STANDARD FOR HIGH CHAIRS
Sec.
1231.1
Scope.
1231.2
Requirements for high chairs.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (15 U.S.C. 2056a); Sec 3, Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273.

# Source:
83 FR 28370, June 19, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1231.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for high chairs.
§ 1231.2
Requirements for high chairs.
Each high chair shall comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F404-21,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for High Chairs,
approved on November 15, 2021. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, PO Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[87 FR 42636, July 18, 2022]
Pt. 1232

# PART 1232—SAFETY STANDARD FOR CHILDREN'S FOLDING CHAIRS AND CHILDREN'S FOLDING STOOLS
Sec.
1232.1
Scope.
1232.2
Requirements for children's folding chairs and children's folding stools.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (15 U.S.C. 2056a); Sec 3, Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273.

# Source:
86 FR 26658, May 17, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1232.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for children's folding chairs and children's folding stools.
§ 1232.2
Requirements for children's folding chairs and children's folding stools.
Each children's folding chair and children's folding stool shall comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2613-21,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Children's Chairs and Stools,
approved on February 1, 2021. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of this ASTM standard from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959 USA; phone: 610-832-9585;
www.astm.org.
A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7479, email:
cpsc-
os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
Pt. 1233

# PART 1233—SAFETY STANDARD FOR PORTABLE HOOK-ON CHAIRS
Sec.
1233.1
Scope.
1233.2
Requirements for portable hook-on chairs.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (August 14, 2008); Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273 (August 12, 2011).

# Source:
81 FR 17065, Mar. 28, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1233.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for portable hook-on chairs.
§ 1233.2
Requirements for portable hook-on chairs.
Each portable hook-on chair must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F1235-18,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Portable Hook-On Chairs,
approved May 1, 2018. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference listed in this section in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of this ASTM standard from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, PO Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959 USA; phone: 610-832-9585;
http://www.astm.org/.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[83 FR 48219, Sept. 24, 2018]
Pt. 1234

# PART 1234—SAFETY STANDARD FOR INFANT BATH TUBS
Sec.
1234.1
Scope.
1234.2
Requirements for infant bath tubs.

# Authority:
The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, Pub. L. 110-314, 104, 122 Stat. 3016 (August 14, 2008); Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273 (August 12, 2011).

# Source:
82 FR 15627, Mar. 30, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1234.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for infant bath tubs.
§ 1234.2
Requirements for infant bath tubs.
Each infant bath tub must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2670-22,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Infant Bath Tubs,
approved on March 1, 2022. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[87 FR 37732, June 24, 2022]
Pt. 1235

# PART 1235—SAFETY STANDARD FOR BABY CHANGING PRODUCTS
Sec.
1235.1
Scope.
1235.2
Requirements for baby changing products.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056a; Sec 3, Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273.

# Source:
83 FR 29861, June 26, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1235.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for baby changing products.
§ 1235.2
Requirements for baby changing products.
Each baby changing product shall comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2388-21,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Baby Changing Products for Domestic Use,
approved on November 15, 2021. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[87 FR 24417, Apr. 26, 2022]
Pt. 1236

# PART 1236—SAFETY STANDARD FOR INFANT SLEEP PRODUCTS
Sec.
1236.1
Scope.
1236.2
Requirements for infant sleep products.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (15 U.S.C. 2056a); Sec. 3, Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273.

# Source:
86 FR 33071, June 23, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1236.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for infant sleep products, including inclined and flat sleep surfaces, that applies to all products marketed or intended to provide a sleeping accommodation for an infant up to 5 months of age, and that are not already subject to any of the following standards:
(a) 16 CFR part 1218 Safety Standard for Bassinets and Cradles;
(b) 16 CFR part 1219 Safety Standard for Full-Size Baby Cribs;
(c) 16 CFR part 1220 Safety Standard for Non-Full-Size Baby Cribs;
(d) 16 CFR part 1221 Safety Standard for Play Yards;
(e) 16 CFR part 1222 Safety Standard for Bedside Sleepers.
§ 1236.2
Requirements for infant sleep products.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each infant sleep product must comply with ASTM F3118-17a, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Infant Inclined Sleep Products (approved on September 1, 2017). The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; phone: (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org
. A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/
. You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
.
(b) Comply with ASTM F3118-17a with the following additions or exclusions:
(1) Instead of complying with Introduction of ASTM F3118-17a, comply with the following:
(i)
Introduction.
This consumer safety specification addresses incidents associated with infant sleep products identified by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC).
(A) In response to incident data compiled by CPSC, this consumer safety specification attempts to minimize the following:
(1)
Fall hazards,
(2)
Asphyxiation and suffocation, and
(3)
Obstruction of nose and mouth by bedding.
(B) The purpose of the standard is to address infant sleep products not already covered by traditional sleep product standards and to reduce deaths associated with known infant sleep hazards, including, but not limited to, a seat back or sleep surface angle that is greater than 10 degrees from the horizontal.
(C) This consumer safety specification is written within the current state-of-the-art of infant sleep product technology and will be updated whenever substantive information becomes available that necessitates additional requirements or justifies the revision of existing requirements.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) In section 1.1 of ASTM F3118-17a, replace the term “infant inclined sleep products” with “infant sleep products.”
(3) In section 1.2 of ASTM F3118-17a, replace the term “infant inclined sleep products” with “infant sleep products.”
(4) Instead of complying with section 1.3 of ASTM F3118-17a, comply with the following:
(i) 1.3 This consumer safety performance specification covers infant sleep products, including inclined and flat sleep surfaces, marketed or intended to provide a sleeping accommodation for an infant up to 5 months old, and that are not already subject to any of the following standards:
(A) 16 CFR part 1218—Safety Standard for Bassinets and Cradles, incorporating by reference ASTM F2194, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Bassinets and Cradles;
(B) 16 CFR part 1219—Safety Standard for Full-Size Baby Cribs, incorporating by reference ASTM F1169, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Full-Size Baby Cribs;
(C) 16 CFR part 1220—Safety Standard for Non-Full-Size Baby Cribs, incorporating by reference applicable requirements in ASTM F406, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Non-Full-Size Baby Cribs/Play Yards;
(D) 16 CFR part 1221—Safety Standard for Play Yards, incorporating by reference applicable requirements in ASTM F406, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Non-Full-Size Baby Cribs/Play Yards;
(E) 16 CFR part 1222—Safety Standard for Bedside Sleepers, incorporating by reference ASTM F2906, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Bedside Sleepers.
(ii) 1.3.1 If the infant sleep product can be converted into a product for which a CPSC regulation exists, the product shall meet the applicable requirements of the CPSC regulation, when in that use mode. If the infant sleep product can be converted into a product for which no CPSC regulation exists, but another ASTM consumer safety specification exists, the product shall meet the applicable requirements of the ASTM consumer safety specification, when in that use mode.
(iii) 1.3.2 Crib mattresses that meet the requirements of ASTM F2933 are not covered by the specifications of this standard.
(5) In section 1.4 of ASTM F3118-17a, replace the term “infant inclined sleep product” with “infant sleep product.”
(6) Instead of complying with section 2.1 of ASTM F3118-17a, comply with the following:
(i) F406 Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Non-Full-Size Baby Cribs/Play Yards;
(ii) F1169 Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Full-Size Baby Cribs;
(iii) F2194 Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Bassinets and Cradles;
(iv) F2906 Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Bedside Sleepers;
(v) F2933 Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Crib Mattresses.
(7) Instead of complying with section 2.2 of ASTM F3118-17a, comply with the following:
(i) 16 CFR 1218—Safety Standard for Bassinets and Cradles;
(ii) 16 CFR 1219—Safety Standard for Full-Size Baby Cribs;
(iii) 16 CFR 1220—Safety Standard for Non-Full-Size Baby Cribs;
(iv) 16 CFR 1221—Safety Standard for Play Yards;
(v) 16 CFR 1222—Safety Standard for Bedside Sleepers.
(8) Do not comply with sections 2.3 and 2.4 of ASTM F3118-17a, including Figures 1 and 2.
(9) Do not comply with sections 3.1.1 through 3.1.6 of ASTM F3118-17a.
(10) Instead of complying with section 3.1.7 of ASTM F3118-17a, comply with the following:
(i) 3.1.7
infant sleep product, n
—a product marketed or intended to provide a sleeping accommodation for an infant up to 5 months of age, and that is not subject to any of the following:
(A) 16 CFR part 1218—Safety Standard for Bassinets and Cradles;
(B) 16 CFR part 1219—Safety Standard for Full-Size Baby Cribs;
(C) 16 CFR part 1220—Safety Standard for Non-Full-Size Baby Cribs;
(D) 16 CFR part 1221- Safety Standard for Play Yards;
(E) 16 CFR part 1222—Safety Standard for Bedside Sleepers.
(ii) [Reserved]
(11) Do not comply with sections 3.1.7.1 through 3.1.13 of ASTM F3118-17a.
(12) Do not comply with section 3.1.15 through 3.1.16 of ASTM F3118-17a.
(13) Do not comply with section 5 of ASTM F3118-17a.
(14) Do not comply with sections 6.1 through 6.8 of ASTM F3118-17a.
(15) Instead of complying with section 6.9 of ASTM F3118-17a, comply with the following:
(i)
6.9 Maximum Seat Back/Sleep Surface Angle:
(ii)
6.9.1 Infant Sleep Product
—The angle of the seat back/sleep surface intended for sleep along the occupant's head to toe axis relative to the horizontal shall not exceed 10 degrees when tested in accordance with 7.11.2.
(iii) Do not comply with 6.9.2.
(iv) 6.9.3
Infant Sleep Products
—shall meet, 16 CFR part 1218, Safety Standard for Bassinets and Cradles, including conforming to the definition of a “bassinet/cradle.”
(16) Do not comply with sections 6.10 through 7.10 of ASTM F3118-17a.
(17) Do not comply with section 7.11.1.3 of ASTM F3118-17a.
(18) In section 7.11.2 of ASTM F3118-17a, replace “
Infant Inclined Sleep Product and Infant Inclined Sleep Product Accessory”
with “
Infant Sleep Products.”
(19) Instead of complying with section 7.11.2.1 and 7.11.2.2 of ASTM F3118-17a, comply with the following:
(i) 7.11.2.1 If applicable, place the product in the manufacturer's recommended highest seat back/sleep surface angle position intended for sleep.
(ii) 7.11.2.2 Place the hinged weight gage-infant in the product and position the gage with the hinge centered over the seat bight line and the upper plate of the gage on the seat back/sleep surface. Place a digital protractor on the upper torso/head area lengthwise.
(20) Do not comply with sections 7.11.3 through 9, or the Appendix, of ASTM F3118-17a.
(21) Add section 10.2 to ASTM F3118-17a:
(i) 10.2 infant sleep product
(ii) [Reserved]
Pt. 1237

# PART 1237—SAFETY STANDARD FOR BOOSTER SEATS
Sec.
1237.1
Scope.
1237.2
Requirements for booster seats.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (August 14, 2008); Sec. 3, Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273 (August 12, 2011).

# Source:
83 FR 30849, July 2, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1237.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for booster seats.
§ 1237.2
Requirements for booster seats.
Each booster seat must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2640-18, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Booster Seats (approved on April 1, 2018). The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Bar Harbor Drive,
P.O. Box 0700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428;
http://www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone: 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
Pt. 1238

# PART 1238—SAFETY STANDARD FOR STATIONARY ACTIVITY CENTERS
Sec.
1238.1
Scope.
1238.2
Requirements for Stationary Activity Centers.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056a.

# Source:
84 FR 28211, June 18, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1238.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for stationary activity centers.
§ 1238.2
Requirements for stationary activity centers.
Each stationary activity center shall comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2012-18
ε
1
Standard Consumer Safety Performance Specification for Stationary Activity Centers
, approved on March 1, 2018. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Bar Harbor Drive, P.O. Box 0700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428;
http://www.astm.org
. You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
Pt. 1239

# PART 1239—SAFETY STANDARD FOR GATES AND ENCLOSURES
Sec.
1239.1
Scope.
1239.2
Requirements for gates and enclosures.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056a.

# Source:
85 FR 40112, July 6, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1239.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for gates and enclosures.
§ 1239.2
Requirements for gates and enclosures.
Each gate and enclosure must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F1004-22,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Expansion Gates and Expandable Enclosures,
approved on June 1, 2022. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
[87 FR 68036, Nov. 14, 2022]
Pt. 1241

# PART 1241—SAFETY STANDARD FOR CRIB MATTRESSES
Sec.
1241.1
Scope.
1241.2
Requirements for crib mattresses.

# Authority:
Sec. 104, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (15 U.S.C. 2056a); Sec. 3, Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273.

# Source:
87 FR 8673, Feb. 15, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1241.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for crib mattresses. The scope of this standard for crib mattresses includes all crib mattresses within the scope of ASTM F2933,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Crib Mattresses,
including: Full-size crib mattresses, non-full-size crib mattresses, and after-market mattresses for play yards and non-full-size cribs.
§ 1241.2
Requirements for crib mattresses.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each crib mattress must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2933-21, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Crib Mattresses (approved on June 15, 2021). The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Bar Harbor Drive, P.O. Box 0700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428;
http://www.astm.org/cpsc.htm.
Once incorporated by reference, you may review a read-only copy of ASTM F2933-21 at
https://www.astm.org/READINGROOM/.
You may also inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
(b) Comply with ASTM F2933-21 with the following additions or exclusions:
(1) Instead of complying with section 3.1.2 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:
(i) 3.1.2
conspicuous, adj
—visible when the mattress is being handled by a consumer placing the mattress in its intended use position in a product.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) Add the following paragraph to section 3.1 of ASTM F2933-21:
(i) 3.1.11
sleep surface, n
—The product component, or group of components, providing the horizontal plane, or nearly horizontal plane (≤10°), intended to support an infant during sleep.
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Instead of complying with section 5.7.1.1 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:
(i) 5.7.1.1
Mattress Size
—The dimensions of a full-size crib mattress shall measure at least 27
1/4
in. (690 mm) wide and 51
5/8
in. (1310 mm) long. When the mattress with the test mattress sheet is placed against the perimeter and in the corner of the crib, the corner gap shall not exceed 3.15 in. (80.0 mm). Dimensions shall be tested in accordance with 6.2.
(ii) [Reserved]
(4) Instead of complying with section 5.7.2 through 5.7.2.2 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:
(i) 5.7.2
Non-Full-Size Crib Mattresses
—For the purposes of this section, the term product refers to a non-full-size crib.
(ii) 5.7.2.1
Mattress supplied with a non-full-size crib:
Shall meet the specifications of
Stability; Cord/Strap Length;
Mattresses for Rigid sided products;
and
Crib Side Height
of 16 CFR part 1220, Safety Standard for Non-Full-Size Baby Cribs, when tested with the product with which it is supplied.
(iii) 5.7.2.2
After-market mattresses for non-full-size cribs:
Shall be treated as though the mattresses were “the mattress supplied with a non-full-size crib” and shall meet the specifications of
Stability; Cord/Strap Length;
Mattresses for Rigid sided products;
and
Crib Side Height
in 16 CFR part 1220, Safety Standard for Non-Full-Size Baby Cribs, when tested to the equivalent interior dimension of the product for which it is intended to be used.
(iv) 5.7.2.3 The after-market mattress must be at least the same size as the original equipment mattress or larger and lay flat on the floor of the product, in contact with the product mattress support structure.
(v) 5.7.2.4 If the original equipment mattress includes a floor support structure, the after-market mattress must include a floor support structure that is at least as thick as the original
equipment mattress floor support structure.
(vi) 5.7.2.5 If the original equipment mattress includes storage accommodations for the product instruction manual, the after-market mattress shall provide equivalent storage accommodations for the product instruction manual.
(5) Instead of complying with section 5.9 through 5.9.1.2 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:
(i) 5.9
After-Market Mattress for Play Yard
—For the purposes of this section, the term “product” refers to a play yard.
(ii) 5.9.1
For Mesh/Fabric Sided Play Yard Products:
(iii) 5.9.1.1 The after-market mattress and product it is tested in shall meet the applicable requirements of the following sections of 16 CFR part 1221, Safety Standard for Play Yards, when tested with each brand and model of product for which it is intended to replace the mattress:
Stability; Cord/Strap Length;
Mattress; Height of Sides; Floor Strength; Mattress Vertical Displacement.
(iv) 5.9.1.2 If the aftermarket mattress is intended to be used in the bassinet of a play yard with a bassinet attachment, the mattress shall also meet the specifications of the following sections of 16 CFR part 1218, Safety Standard for Bassinets and Cradles, when tested with each brand and model for which it is intended to replace the mattress:
Pad Thickness for Fabric or Mesh Sided Products; Pad dimensions; Side Height; Bassinets with Segmented Mattresses.
This section applies only to a play yard mattress that is interchangeably used as a play yard mattress and as a bassinet mattress/pad.
(6) Add the following paragraphs to section 5 of ASTM F2933-21:
(i) 5.10 Mattress Firmness.
(ii) 5.10.1 All crib mattresses within the scope of this standard, when tested in accordance with 6.3, the feeler arm shall not contact the sleep surface of the crib mattress.
(iii) 5.11 Coil Springs. The requirements in this section only pertain to crib mattresses with coil springs.
(iv) 5.11.1 When tested in accordance with 6.4, there shall be no exposed coil springs or metal wires.
(7) Renumber section 6.2.2 of ASTM F2933-21 to section 6.2.3.
(8) Renumber section 6.2.2.1 of ASTM F2933-21 to section 6.2.3.1.
(9) Renumber section 6.2.2.2 of ASTM F2933-21 to section 6.2.3.2.
(10) Renumber section 6.2.2.3 of ASTM F2933-21 to section 6.2.3.3.
(11) Renumber section 6.2.2.4 of ASTM F2933021 to section 6.2.3.4.
(12) Add the following paragraphs to section 6.2.3 of ASTM F2933021:
(i) 6.2.3.5 The test mattress sheet shall be placed on the mattress such that each sheet edge is wrapped fully around and under the mattress.
(ii) 6.2.3.6 Repeat step 6.2.3.2. Then measure the shortest gap between the mattress and the projected crib corner after the dimensions of the mattress have been recorded. The projected crib corner is located 53 in. ±
1/8
in. (1346 mm ± 3.2 mm) from Wall C and 28
5/8
in. ±
1/8
in. (727 mm ± 3.2 mm) from Wall D, as shown in Fig. 2. The mattress shall not be moved during measurement. This shall be the corner gap measurement.
(iii) 6.2.3.7 Rotate the mattress 180° such that the opposing corner is adjacent to Walls C and D, then repeat 6.2.3.6.
(13) Instead of complying with section 6.2.2 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:
(i) 6.2.2
Test Equipment-Mattress Sheet:
(ii) 6.2.2.1 The mattress sheet shall be 100% cotton and fitted for the mattress to be tested.
(iii) 6.2.2.2 The mattress sheet shall be washed in hot water (50 °C [122 °F] or higher) and dried a minimum of two times on the highest setting using household textile laundering units. This shall be the test mattress sheet.
(14) Add the following paragraphs as section 6.3 of ASTM F2933-21.
(i) 6.3 Mattress Firmness.
(ii) 6.3.1
Test Fixture:
(iii) 6.3.1.1 The fixture, as shown in Fig. 3, shall be a rigid, robust object with a round footprint of diameter 203 mm ± 1 mm, and an overall mass of 5200 g ± 20 g. The lower edge of the fixture shall have a radius not larger than 1 mm. Overhanging the footprint by 40 mm ± 2 mm shall be a flexible, flat bar of width 12 mm ± 0.2 mm with square-cut ends. This bar may be fashioned
from a shortened hacksaw blade. The bar shall rest parallel to the bottom surface of the fixture and shall be positioned at a height of 15 mm ± 0.2 mm above the bottom surface of the fixture. The bar shall lay directly over a radial axis of the footprint (
i.e.,
such that a longitudinal centerline of the bar would pass over the center of the footprint).
(iv) 6.3.1.2 Included on the fixture, but not overhanging the footprint, shall be a linear level that is positioned on a plane parallel to the bar, and in a direction parallel to the bar.
(v) 6.3.1.3 Other parts of the fixture, including any handle arrangement and any clamping arrangement for the bar, shall not comprise more that 30% of the total mass of the fixture, and shall be mounted as concentric and as low as possible.
(vi) 6.3.2
Test Method:
(vii) 6.3.2.1 Mattresses that are supplied with a product shall be tested when positioned on that product. Mattresses sold independent of a product, shall be tested on a flat, rigid, horizontal support. After-market mattresses for play yards and non-full-size cribs shall be tested with each brand and model of product it is intended to replace.
(viii) 6.3.2.2 Where a user of a mattress could possibly position either side face up, even if this is not an intended use, then both sides of the mattress shall be tested.
(ix) 6.3.2.3 Before testing each mattress, the following steps shall be followed:
(A) Verify there is no excess moisture in the mattress, beyond reasonable laboratory humidity levels.
(B) Allow sufficient time per the manufacturer's instructions to fully inflate, if shipped in a vacuum sealed package.
(C) Shake and or agitate the mattress in order to fully aerate and distribute all internal components evenly.
(D) Place the mattress in the manufacturer's recommended use position if there is one, in the supplied product, or on a flat, rigid, horizontal support.
(E) Let the mattress rest for at least 5 minutes.
(F) Mark a longitudinal centerline on the mattress sleep surface, and divide this line in half. This point will be the first test location. Then further divide the two lines on either side of the first test location into halves. These will be the second and third test locations.
(x) 6.3.2.4. Position the test fixture on each of the test locations, with the footprint of the fixture centered on the location, with the bar extending over the centerline and always pointing at the same end of the mattress sleep surface.
(A) At each test location in turn, rotate the bar to point in the required direction, and gently set the fixture down on the mattress sleep surface, ensuring that the footprint of the fixture does not extend beyond the edge of the mattress. The fixture shall be placed as horizontal as possible, using the level to verify. If the bar makes contact with the top of the mattress sleep surface, even slightly, the mattress is considered to have failed the test.
(B) Repeat Step (A) at the remaining locations identified in 6.3.2.3(F).
(C) Repeat Step (A) at a location away from the centerline most likely to fail (
e.g.
a very soft spot on the sleep surface or at a raised portion of the sleep surface). In the case of testing a raised portion of a sleep surface, position center of the fixture such that the bar is over the raised portion, to simulate the position of an infant's nose.
(D) In the event that the fixture is not resting in a nearly horizontal orientation, repeat the test procedure at that location by beginning again from paragraph (b)(14)(x)(A). However, if the test produces a fail even with the device tilted back away from the bar so as to raise it, then a fail can be recorded.
(15) Add the following paragraphs as section 6.4 of ASTM F2933-21:
(i) 6.4 Coil Spring Test.
(ii) 6.4.1 General—This test consists of dropping a specified weight repeatedly onto the mattress. The test assists in evaluating the structural integrity of a mattress with coil springs.
(iii) 6.4.2 Test Fixture:
(iv) 6.4.2.1 A guided free-fall impacting system machine (which keeps the upper surface of the impact mass parallel to the horizontal surface on which the crib is secured) (See Fig. 4).
(v) 6.4.2.2 A 30-lb (13.6-kg) impact mass (see Fig. 5 and Fig. 6).
(vi) 6.4.2.3 A 6-in. (150-mm) long gauge.
(vii) 6.4.2.4 An enclosed frame measuring 29 inches by 53 inches (737 mm by 1346 mm) for the purpose of restricting mattress movement. When testing full-size mattresses, a full-size crib meeting the requirements of ASTM F1169-19 would suffice.
(viii) 6.4.2.5 A
3/4
″ piece of plywood or oriented strand board (OSB) that is rigidly supported along the perimeter.
(ix) 6.4.3
Test Method:
(x) 6.4.3.1 Place the mattress on the wooden support and inside the enclosed frame.
(xi) 6.4.3.2 Position geometric center of the impact mass above the geometric center of the test mattress.
(xii) 6.4.3.3 Adjust the distance between the top surface of the mattress and bottom surface of the impact mass to 6 in. (150 mm) (using the 6-in. (150-mm) long gauge, per 6.4.2.3) when the impact mass is in its highest position. Lock the impactor mechanism at this height and do not adjust the height during impacting to compensate for any change in distance as a result of the mattress compressing or the mattress support deforming or moving during impacting.
(xiii) 6.4.3.4 Allow the 30-lb (13.6-kg) impact mass to fall freely 250 times at the rate of one impact every 4 s. Load retraction shall not begin until at least 2 s after the start of the drop.
(xiv) 6.4.3.5 Repeat the step described in 6.4.3.4 at the other test locations shown in Fig. 7.
(xv) 6.4.4 The coil spring test shall be repeated on each surface of the mattress. The test shall not be repeated using a mattress that has been previously tested with the coil spring test.
(16) Add the following Figures to section 6 of ASTM F2933-21:
(i) Figure 2.
ER15FE22.006
(ii) Figure 3.
ER15FE22.007
(iii) Figure 4.
91
91
Reprinted, with permission, from ASTM F1169-19 Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Full-Size Baby Cribs, copyright ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428. A copy of the complete standard may be obtained from ASTM International,
www.astm.org.
ER15FE22.008
(iv) Figure 5.
ER15FE22.009
(v) Figure 6.
ER15FE22.010
(vi) Figure 7.
ER15FE22.011
(17) Instead of complying with sections 7.1 and 7.2 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:
(i) 7.1 Each mattress and its retail package shall be marked or labeled clearly and legibly to indicate the following:
(ii) 7.1.1 The name, place of business (city, state, and mailing address, including zip code), and telephone number of the manufacturer, distributor, or seller.
(iii) 7.1.2 A code mark or other means that identifies the date (month and year at a minimum) of manufacture.
(iv) 7.2 The marking and labeling on the product shall be permanent.
(18) Do not comply with sections 7.2.1, 7.2.2, 7.2.2.1, 7.2.2.2, and 7.2.2.3 of ASTM F2933-21.
(19) Instead of complying with sections 7.3, 7.3.1, 7.3.2, and 7.3.3 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:
(i) 7.3 Any upholstery labeling required by law shall not be used to meet the requirements of this section.
(ii) [Reserved]
(20) Instead of complying with sections 7.4 and 7.4.1 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:
(i)
7.4 Warning Design for Mattresses:
(ii) 7.4.1 The warnings shall be easy to read and understand and be in the English language at a minimum.
(iii) 7.4.2 Any marking or labeling provided in addition to those required by this section shall not contradict or confuse the meaning of the required information, or be otherwise misleading to the consumer.
(iv) 7.4.3 The warnings shall be conspicuous and permanent.
(v) 7.4.4 The warnings shall conform to ANSI Z535.4—2011, American National Standard for Product Safety Signs and Labels, sections 6.1-6.4, 7.2-7.6.3, and 8.1, with the following changes.
(vi) 7.4.4.1 In sections 6.2.2, 7.3, 7.5, and 8.1.2, replace “should” with “shall.”
(vii) 7.4.4.2 In section 7.6.3, replace “should (when feasible)” with “shall.”
(viii) 7.4.4.3 Strike the word “safety” when used immediately before a color (
e.g.,
replace “safety white” with “white”).
(ix)
Note 3
—For reference, ANSI Z535.1 provides a system for specifying safety colors.
(x) 7.4.5 The safety alert symbol “[Safety Alert Symbol]” and the signal word “WARNING” shall be at least 0.2
in. (5 mm) high. The remainder of the text shall be in characters whose upper case shall be at least 0.1 in. (2.5 mm), except where otherwise specified.
(xi)
Note 4
—For improved warning readability, typefaces with large height-to-width ratios, which are commonly identified as “condensed,” “compressed,” “narrow,” or similar should be avoided.
(xii) 7.4.6
Message Panel Text Layout:
(xiii) 7.4.6.1 The text shall be left aligned, ragged right for all but one-line text messages, which can be left aligned or centered.
(xiv)
Note 5
—Left aligned means that the text is aligned along the left margin, and, in the case of multiple columns of text, along the left side of each individual column. Please see FIG. 8 for examples of left aligned text.
(xv) 7.4.6.2 The text in each column should be arranged in list or outline format, with precautionary (hazard avoidance) statements preceded by bullet points. Multiple precautionary statements shall be separated by bullet points if paragraph formatting is used.
(xvi) 7.4.7 Example warnings in the format described in this section are shown in FIGS. 9, 10, and 11.
(21) Instead of complying with sections 7.5, 7.5.1, 7.5.2, 7.5.3, 7.5.3.1, and 7.5.3.2 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:
(i) 7.5 Warning Statements—Each mattress shall have warning statements to address the following, at a minimum, unless otherwise specified. The blank in the mattress fit statement beginning with “If a gap is larger than,” needs to be filled with “1
1/2
in. (3.8 cm)” for full-size crib mattresses and “1 in. (2.5 cm)” for all other mattresses.
(ii)
Note 6
—Address means that verbiage other than what is shown can be used as long as the meaning is the same or information that is product-specific is presented.
SIDS AND SUFFOCATION HAZARDS
ALWAYS
place baby on back to sleep to reduce the risks of SIDS and suffocation.
Babies have suffocated:
• on pillows, comforters, and extra padding
• in gaps between a wrong-size mattress, or extra padding, and side walls of product.
NEVER
add soft bedding, padding, or an extra mattress.
USE ONLY
one mattress at a time.
DO NOT
cover the faces or heads of babies with a blanket or over-bundle them. Overheating can increase the risk of SIDS.
ALWAYS
check mattress fit every time you change the sheets, by pushing mattress tight to one corner. Look for any gaps between the mattress and the side walls. If a gap is larger than ____, the mattress does not fit—
do not
use it.
(iii) Renumber section 7.3.1 of ASTM F2933-21 to section 7.5.1.
(iv) In section 7.5.1, replace the reference to “7.3” with a reference to “7.5.”
(v) In section 7.5.1, replace the term “Only use” with the term “
USE ONLY
.”
(vi) Renumber section 7.3.2 of ASTM F2933-21 to section 7.5.2.
(vii) In section 7.5.2, replace the term “For non-full-size crib mattresses” with the term “For non-full-size crib mattresses and after-market mattresses for play yards and non-full-size cribs.”
(viii) In section 7.5.2, replace the reference to “7.3” with a reference to “7.5.”
(ix) In section 7.5.2, replace the term “Only use” with the term “
USE ONLY
.”
(x) Renumber section 7.3.3 of ASTM F2933-21 to section 7.5.3.
(xi) In section 7.5.3, replace the term “may be included” with “are permitted, and replace the term “7.3 and 7.4” with “7.5 and 7.6”.
(22) Instead of complying with sections 7.6, 7.6.1, 7.6.1.1, 7.6.1.2, or 7.7 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:
(i) 7.6 The following warning statement shall be included exactly as stated in this paragraph (b)(22)(i) and shall be located at the bottom of the warnings on each mattress:
DO NOT
remove these important safety warnings.
(ii) 7.7
Additional Marking and Warnings for After-Market Mattresses for Play Yards and Non-Full-Size Cribs
—The mattress shall have:
(iii) 7.7.1 All warnings added by the original manufacturer which are in addition to those required by this standard.
(iv) 7.7.2 Assembly/attachment instructions that were provided on the original mattress.
(v) 7.7.3 The specific brand(s) and model(s) number(s) of the product(s) in which it is intended to be used.
(vi) 7.7.4
For Rigid Sided Rectangular Products
—the following statement shall appear exactly as stated in this paragraph (b)(22)(vi) (the blanks are to be filled in as appropriate).
This mattress measures ____ long, ____ wide, and ____ thick when measured from seam to seam.
(23) Add the following paragraphs as section 7.8 of ASTM F2933-21:
(i) 7.8 Warning Design for Retail Packages.
(ii) 7.8.1 The warnings and statements are not required on the retail package if they are on the mattress and are visible in their entirety through the retail package. Cartons and other materials used exclusively for shipping the mattress are not considered retail packaging.
(iii) 7.8.2 Warning Statements—Each mattress' retail package shall have statements to address the following, at a minimum, and as specified in 7.4.1, 7.4.2, and 7.4.4-7.4.6.
(iv) 7.8.2.1 For full-size crib mattresses, each mattress' retail package shall be labeled with the warnings and statements specified in 7.5 and 7.5.1.
(v) 7.8.2.2 For non-full-size crib mattresses and after-market mattresses for play yards and non-full-size cribs, each mattress' retail package shall be labeled with the warnings and statements specified in 7.5, 7.5.2, 7.7.1-7.7.4, as applicable.
(24) Add the following figures to section 7 of ASTM F2933-21:
(i) Figure 8.
ER15FE22.012
(ii) Figure 9.
ER15FE22.013
(iii) Figure 10.
ER15FE22.014
(iv) Figure 11.
ER15FE22.015
(25) Redesignate section 8 of ASTM F2933-21 as section 9.
(26) Add a new section 8 of ASTM F2933-21:
(i)
8. Instructional Literature
.
(ii) 8.1 Instructions shall be provided with the mattress and shall be easy to read and understand, and shall be in the English language, at a minimum. These instructions shall include information on assembly, maintenance, cleaning, and use, where applicable.
(iii) 8.2 The instructions shall have statements to address the following, at a minimum.
(iv) 8.2.1 All warnings included in section 7.5, as applicable.
(v) 8.2.2 All additional markings and warnings included in section 7.7, as applicable.
(vi) 8.3 The warnings in the instructions shall meet the requirements specified in 7.4.4, 7.4.5, and 7.4.6, except that sections 6.4 and 7.2-7.6.3 of ANSI Z535.4
need not be applied. However, the signal word and safety alert symbol shall contrast with the background of the signal word panel, and the cautions and warnings shall contrast with the background of the instructional literature.
(vii)
Note 7
—For example, the signal word, safety alert symbol, and the warnings may be black letters on a white background, white letters on a black background, navy blue letters on an off-white background, or some other high-contrast combination.
(viii) 8.4 Any instructions provided in addition to those required by this section shall not contradict or confuse the meaning of the required information, or be otherwise misleading to the consumer.
(ix)
Note 8
—For additional guidance on the design of warnings for instructional literature, please refer to ANSI Z535.6,
American National Standard: Product Safety Information in Product Manuals, Instructions, and Other Collateral Materials.
[87 FR 8673, Feb. 15, 2022; 87 FR 41060, July 11, 2022]
Pt. 1242

# PART 1242—SAFETY STANDARD FOR NURSING PILLOWS (Eff. 4-23-25)
Sec.
1242.1
Scope, purpose, application, and exemptions.
1242.2
Definitions.
1242.3
General requirements.
1242.4
Performance requirements.
1242.5
Test methods.
1242.6
Marking and labeling.
1242.7
Instructional literature.
1242.8
Incorporation by reference.
1242.9
Severability.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056a

# Source:
89 FR 85414, Oct. 25, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 85414, Oct. 25, 2024, part 1242 was added, effective Apr. 23, 2025.
§ 1242.1
Scope, purpose, application, and exemptions.
(a)
Scope and purpose.
This part, a consumer product safety standard, prescribes requirements intended to reduce the risk of death and injury from hazards associated with nursing pillows, as defined in § 1242.2.
(b)
Application.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all nursing pillows that are manufactured after April 23, 2025, are subject to the requirements of this part.
(c)
Exemptions.
The following products are exempt from this part:
(1) Maternity pillows, as defined in § 1242.2,
(2) Sling carriers, as defined in 16 CFR part 1228, and
(3) Soft infant and toddler carriers, as defined in 16 CFR part 1226.
§ 1242.2
Definitions.
Caregiver attachment
means a portion of the product that is not an infant support surface and is intended to secure the nursing pillow to the caregiver. A caregiver attachment may comprise components including, but not limited to, straps, buckles, or latches.
Caregiver opening
means the surface of the nursing pillow, excluding the caregiver attachment, intended to fit against the caregiver's torso during use. This surface is typically, but not necessarily, crescent-like in shape.
Conspicuous
means visible to the caregiver while placing the product in the manufacturer's recommended use position on or against the caregiver's body.
Infant restraint system
means a portion of a product intended to secure or hold an infant in place on the product. These typically take the form of straps or harnesses that are secured by the caregiver.
Infant support surface
means the manufacturer's intended support surface for the infant during nursing or feeding.
Maternity pillow,
also known as a pregnancy pillow, means a large body pillow intended, marketed, and designed to provide support to a pregnant adult's body during sleep or while lying down.
Nursing pillow
means any product intended, marketed, or designed to position and support an infant close to a caregiver's body while breastfeeding or bottle feeding, including any removable covers, or slipcovers, sold on or together with such a product. These products rest upon, wrap around, or are
worn by a caregiver in a seated or reclined position.
Safety alert symbol
means a symbol consisting of an exclamation mark surrounded by an equilateral triangle, or an equilateral triangle with a contrasting superimposed exclamation mark. The safety alert symbol precedes the signal word “WARNING,” or other signal word, in the signal word panel of a warning.
§ 1242.3
General requirements.
(a)
Lead in paints.
All paint and surface coatings on the product shall comply with the requirements of 16 CFR part 1303.
(b)
Small parts.
There shall be no small parts, as determined by 16 CFR part 1501, before testing or liberated as a result of testing.
(c)
Hazardous sharp edges or points.
There shall be no hazardous sharp points or edges, as determined by 16 CFR 1500.48 and 1500.49, before or after testing.
(d)
Removal of components.
When tested in accordance with § 1242.5(b), any removal of components that are accessible to an infant while in the product or from any position around the product shall not present a small part, sharp point, or sharp edge as required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(e)
Permanency of labels and warnings.
(1) Warning labels (whether paper or non-paper) shall be permanent when tested in accordance with § 1242.5(c)(1) through (3).
(2) Warning statements applied directly onto the surface of the product by hot stamping, heat transfer, printing, wood burning, etc. shall be permanent when tested in accordance with § 1242.5(c)(4).
(3) Non-paper labels shall not liberate small parts when tested in accordance with § 1242.5(c)(5).
(4) Warning labels that are attached to the fabric of nursing pillows with seams shall remain in contact with the fabric around the entire perimeter of the label, when the product is in all manufacturer-recommended use positions, when tested in accordance with § 1242.5(c)(3).
§ 1242.4
Performance requirements.
(a)
Firmness.
When tested in accordance with § 1242.5(d), (e) and (f), the force required for a 1.00-in. (2.54 cm) displacement of the 3-inch (76.2 mm) diameter hemispheric probe (figure 1 to this paragraph (a)—3-in. head probe) at any measurement location shall be greater than 10.0 N (2.24 lb).

# Figure 1 to Paragraph (
a

# )—3-in Head Probe
ER25OC24.003
(b)
Infant containment.
When tested in accordance with § 1242.5(g), the surfaces within the caregiver opening of the product shall not contact the 9-inch (230 mm) diameter head probe (figure 2 to this paragraph (b)—9-in. head probe) such that the probe is constrained within the caregiver opening and, when placed according to § 1242.5(g)(6), the probe must extend past the caregiver opening.

# Figure 2 to Paragraph (
b

# )—9-in. Head Probe
ER25OC24.004
(c)
Infant restraints.
Nursing pillows shall not include any infant restraint system.
(d)
Seam strength.
When tested in accordance with § 1242.5(h), fabric/mesh seams and points of attachment shall not fail such that a small part, sharp point, or sharp edge is presented, as required in § 1242.3(b) and (c).
(e)
Caregiver attachment strength.
When tested in accordance with § 1242.5(i), material seams, points of attachment, and attachment components shall not fail, and shall create no hazardous conditions, such as small parts or sharp edges, as required in § 1242.3(b) and (c).
§ 1242.5
Test methods.
(a)
Test conditions.
(1) Condition the product for 48 hours at 23 °C ±2 °C (73.4 °F ±3.6 °F) and a relative humidity of 50% ±5%.
(2) Secure the firmness fixture to a test base such that the 3-in. head probe (figure 1 to § 1242.4(a)) does not deflect more than 0.01 in. (0.025 cm) under a 10 N (2.2 lb) load applied in each orientation required in the test methods.
(b)
Removal of components test method
—(1)
Equipment.
For torque and tension tests, any suitable device may be used to grasp the component, provided that it does not interfere with the attachment elements that are stressed during the tests.
(2)
Torque test.
Gradually apply a 4 lb-in. (0.4 N-m) torque over 5 seconds (s.) in a clockwise rotation to 180 degrees or until 4 lb-in. has been reached. Maintain for 10 s. Release and allow component to return to relaxed state. Repeat the torque test in a counterclockwise rotation.
(3)
Tension test.
For components that can reasonably be grasped between thumb and forefinger, or teeth, apply a
15 lb (67 N) force over 5 s., in a direction to remove the component. Maintain for 10 s. A clamp such as shown in figure 1 to this paragraph (b)(3) may be used if the gap between the back of the component and the base material is 0.04 in. (0.1 cm) or more.

# Figure 1 to Paragraph (
b

# )(3)—Tension Test Adapter Clamp
ER25OC24.005
(c)
Permanency of labels and warnings.
(1) A paper label (excluding labels attached by a seam) shall be considered permanent if, during an attempt to remove it without the aid of tools or solvents, it cannot be removed, it tears into pieces upon removal, or such action damages the surface to which it is attached.
(2) A non-paper label (excluding labels attached by a seam) shall be considered permanent if, during an attempt to remove it without the aid of tools or solvents, it cannot be removed or such action damages the surface to which it is attached.
(3) A warning label attached by a seam shall be considered permanent if it does not detach when subjected to a 15-lbf (67-N) pull force applied in the direction most likely to cause failure using a
3/4
-in. (1.9 cm) diameter clamp surface. Gradually apply the force within a period of 5 s. and maintain for an additional 10 s.
(4) Adhesion Test for Warnings Applied Directly onto the Surface of the Product:
(i) Apply the tape test defined in Test Method B of ASTM D3359-23 (incorporated by reference, see § 1242.8), eliminating parallel cuts.
(ii) Perform this test once in each different location where warnings are applied.
(iii) The warning statements will be considered permanent if the printing in the area tested is still legible and attached after being subjected to this test.
(5) A non-paper label, during an attempt to remove it without the aid of tools or solvents, shall not fit entirely within the small parts cylinder defined in 16 CFR part 1501 if it can be removed.
(d)
Infant support surface firmness test method.
Perform the following steps to determine the infant support surface
firmness of the product as received from the manufacturer.
(1) Conduct tests at three locations on the surface to be tested, with 3 in. (7.62 cm) or more separation: maximum thickness perpendicular to the test surface and two other locations most likely to fail. When selecting these locations, the edge of the probe shall not extend beyond the edge of the product. If the design or size of the product is such that the edge of the probe must extend beyond the edge of the product, the probe shall be centered over as much of the test surface as possible.
(2) Lay the product, with the infant support surface facing up, on a test base that is horizontal, flat, firm, and smooth.
(3) Prevent movement of the product in a manner that does not affect the force or deflection measurement of the product surface under test. Provide no additional support beneath the product.
(4) Orient the axis of the 3-in. head probe (figure 1 to § 1242.4(a)) perpendicular to the test surface and aligned with a force gauge and parallel to a distance measurement device or gauge. Zero the force gauge.
(5) Using a lead screw or similar device to control movement along a single direction, advance the probe onto the product and set the deflection to 0.0 in. when a force of 0.1 N (0.02 lb) is reached.
(6) Continue to advance the head probe into the product at a rate not to exceed 0.1 inch per second and pause when the force exceeds 10.0 N (2.24 lb), or the deflection is equal to 1.00 in. (2.54 cm).
(7) Monitor the force and wait for it to stabilize, meaning the force has not changed more than 0.1 N (0.02 lb) for at least 30 s. If, after the force stabilizes, the deflection is less than 1.00 in. and the force is 10.0 N or less, repeat paragraphs (d)(6) and (7) of this section.
(8) Record the final force and deflection amounts.
(9) Repeat the infant support surface firmness tests on any other infant support surface and in all manufacturer-intended configurations that could affect the infant support surface, such as the folding or layering of parts of the product.
(e)
Inner wall firmness test method.
For nursing pillows with a caregiver opening, perform the steps in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section on the inner wall of the caregiver opening, and perform the following, to determine the inner wall firmness as received from the manufacturer. Repeat the inner wall firmness tests in all manufacturer-intended configurations that could affect the inner wall firmness.
(f)
Product conditioning firmness test method.
Following the firmness testing in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, perform the following steps to determine the product firmness after conditioning.
(1) Launder and dry the product according to the manufacturer's instructions.
(2) Repeat paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) Repeat paragraph (e) of this section.
(g)
Infant containment test method.
(1) Lay the product, with the infant support surface facing up, on a test base that is horizontal, flat, firm, and smooth.
(2) For nursing pillows with a caregiver attachment, unsecure and move the caregiver attachment away from the caregiver opening.
(3) Place the 9-in. head probe (figure 2 to § 1242.4(b)) inside the caregiver opening such that the flat bottom of the probe rests on the test surface and the probe's perimeter contacts the innermost surface of the caregiver opening.
(4) If the inner wall of the caregiver opening contacts the outwardly facing portions of the probe, or the inner wall interferes with placing the probe down, the caregiver opening is considered to constrain the probe.
See
figure 2 to this paragraph (g)(4). Do not include in the assessment any contact with a caregiver attachment.

# Figure 2 to Paragraph (
g

# )(4)—Infant Containment, Example
ER25OC24.006
(5) With the probe at the position contacting the innermost surface within the caregiver opening, determine if any portion of the probe extends beyond a line projected across the outside limits of the caregiver opening.
(6) Slide the probe horizontally out of the caregiver opening to the outside of the nursing pillow. Determine if the probe is constrained by the inner wall of the caregiver opening contacting the outwardly facing portions of the probe.
See
figure 2 to paragraph (g)(4) of this section. Do not include in the assessment any contact with a caregiver attachment.
(7) For nursing pillows with a caregiver attachment, adjust and secure the caregiver attachment to the minimum length allowed by the product and repeat paragraphs (g)(3) through (g)(5).
(h)
Seam strength test method.
(1) Equipment shall include clamps with 0.75 in. (1.9 cm) diameter clamping surfaces capable of holding fabric and with a means to attach a force gauge. Figure 3 to this paragraph (h)(1), or equivalent. The force gauge must have an accuracy of ±0.5 lb (2.2 N).

# Figure 3 to Paragraph (
h

# )(1)—Seam Clamp
ER25OC24.007
(2) Clamp the fabric of the nursing pillow on each side of the seam under test with the 0.75 in. clamping surfaces placed not less than 0.5 in. (1.2 cm) from the seam.
(3) Apply a tension of 15 lb (67 N) evenly over 5 s. and maintain for an additional 10 s.
(4) Repeat the test on every distinct seam and every 6 in. (15 cm) along each seam.
(i)
Caregiver attachment strength test method.
(1) Any suitable clamping devices with means to attach a force gauge with accuracy of 0.5 lb (1.2 N) may be used. The clamping surfaces shall grasp across the entire width of the strap or attachment element.
(2) Support the nursing pillow to resist the pull forces and release the buckle, clasp, or other fastener of the caregiver attachment.
(3) Clamp one side of the attachment or strap of the nursing pillow not less than 0.5 in. (1.2 cm) from the attachment to the nursing pillow.
(4) Apply a tension of 20 lb (89 N) evenly over 5 s. and maintain for an additional 10 s.
(5) Repeat the test on the other side of the attachment or strap.
(6) Join the buckle, clasp, or other fastener of the attachment or straps.
(7) Clamp both sides of the attachment or straps across the buckle, clasp, or other fastener, one on each side and not less than 0.5 in. (1.2 cm) from the fastener.
(8) Apply a tension of 20 lb (89 N) evenly over 5 s. and maintain for an additional 10 s.
§ 1242.6
Marking and labeling.
(a) Each product and its retail package shall be marked or labeled clearly and legibly to indicate the following:
(1) The name, place of business (city, state, and mailing address, including zip code), and telephone number of the manufacturer, distributor, or seller.
(2) A code mark or other means that identifies the date (month and year as a minimum) of manufacture.
(3) The marking or labeling in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are not required on the retail package if they are on the product and are visible in their entirety through the retail package. When no retail packaging is used to enclose the product, the information provided on the product shall be used for determining compliance paragraphs (a)(1) and (2). Cartons and
other materials used exclusively for shipping the product are not considered retail packaging.
(b) The marking and labeling on the product shall be permanent.
(c) Any upholstery labeling required by law shall not be used to meet the requirements of this section.
(d) Warning design for product:
(1) The warnings shall be easy to read and understand and be in the English language at a minimum.
(2) Any marking or labeling provided in addition to those required by this section shall not contradict or confuse the meaning of the required information or be otherwise misleading to the consumer.
(3) The warnings shall be conspicuous and permanent.
(4) The warnings shall conform to sections 6.1 through 6.4, 7.2 through 7.63, and 8.1 of ANSI Z535.4-2011, (incorporated by reference, see § 1242.8), with the following changes.
(i) In sections 6.2.2, 7.3, 7.5, and 8.1.2, replace “should” with “shall.”
(ii) In section 7.6.3, replace “should (when feasible)” with “shall.”
(iii) Strike the word “safety” when used immediately before a color (for example, replace “safety white” with “white”).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
d

# )(4).
For reference, ANSI Z535.1,
American National Standard for Safety Colors,
provides a system for specifying safety colors.
See
note 1 to § 1242.8(b) for ANSI contact information.
(5) The safety alert symbol and the signal word “WARNING” shall be at least 0.2 in. (5 mm) high. The remainder of the text shall be in characters whose upper case shall be at least 0.1 in. (2.5 mm), except where otherwise specified.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
d

# )(5).
For improved warning readability, avoid typefaces with large height-to-width ratios, which are commonly identified as “condensed,” “compressed,” “narrow,” or similar.
(6) The message panel shall meet the following text layout requirements.
(i) The text shall be left-aligned, ragged-right for all but one-line text messages, which can be left-aligned or centered.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
d

# )(6)(i).
Left-aligned means that the text is aligned along the left margin, and in the case of multiple columns of text, along the left side of each individual column.
See
figure 1 to this paragraph (d)(6)(i) for examples of left-aligned text.

# Figure 1 to Paragraph (
d

# )(6)(
i

# )—Examples of Left-Aligned Text
ER25OC24.008

# Note 4 to figure 1 to paragraph (
d

# )(6)(
i

# ).
The text shown for these warnings is filler text, known as lorem ipsum, commonly used to demonstrate graphic elements.
(ii) The text in each column should be arranged in list or outline format, with precautionary (hazard avoidance) statements preceded by bullet points. Multiple precautionary statements shall be separated by bullet points if paragraph formatting is used.
(7) An example warning in the format described in this section is shown in figure 2 to this paragraph (d)(7).

# Figure 2 to Paragraph (
d

# )(7)—Example of Warning
ER25OC24.009
(e)
Warning statements.
Each product shall have warning statements. The text must address the warnings as shown in figure 2 to paragraph (d)(7) of this section.

# Note 5 to paragraph (
e

# ).
“Address” means that verbiage other than what is shown can be used as long as the meaning is the same or information that is product-specific is presented.
(f)
Package warnings.
(1) The warnings and statements are not required on the retail package if they are on the product and are visible in their entirety through the retail package. Cartons and other materials used exclusively for shipping the product are not considered retail packaging.
(2) Each product's package shall have warning statements to address the following, at a minimum, as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) and (4) through (6) of this section:
(i) Do not use for sleep.
(ii) Do not use in sleep products like cribs, bassinets, or play yards.
(3) Each product's retail package shall address the manufacturer's recommended weight, height, age, or developmental stage or combination thereof of the infant.
(4) Warnings, statements, or graphic pictorials on the product and package shall not indicate or imply that the infant may be left in the product without an adult caregiver in attendance.
§ 1242.7
Instructional literature.
(a) Instructions shall be provided with the product and shall be easy to read and understand and shall be in the English language at a minimum. These instructions shall include information on assembly, maintenance, cleaning, and use, where applicable.
(b) The instructions shall include all warnings specified in § 1242.6(e).
(c) The instructions shall address the following additional warnings:
(1) Read all instructions before using this product.
(2) Keep instructions for future use.
(3) Do not use this product if it is damaged or broken.
(4) Instructions shall indicate the manufacturer's recommended maximum weight, height, age, developmental level, or combination thereof, of the infant for whom the nursing pillow is intended. If this product is not intended for use by a child for a specific reason, the instructions shall so state this limitation.
(d) The cautions and warnings in the instructions shall meet the requirements specified in § 1242.6(d)(4) through (6) of this section, except that sections 6.4 and 7.2 through 7.6.3 of ANSI Z535.4—2011, need not be applied. However, the signal word and safety alert symbol shall contrast with the background of the signal word panel, and the cautions and warnings shall contrast with the background of the instructional literature.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
d

# ).
For example, the signal word, safety alert symbol, and the warnings may be black letters on a white background, white letters on a black background, navy blue letters on an off-white background, or some other high-contrast combination.
(e) Any instructions provided in addition to those required by this section shall not contradict or confuse the meaning of the required information or be otherwise misleading to the consumer.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
e

# ).
For additional guidance on the design of warnings for instructional literature, please refer to ANSI Z535.6,
American National Standard: Product Safety Information in Product Manuals,
Instructions, and Other Collateral Materials.
See
note 1 to § 1242.8(b) for ANSI contact information.
§ 1242.8
Incorporation by reference.
Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR)material is available for inspection at the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, phone (301) 504-7479, email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material
may be obtained from the following sources:
(a) ASTM International (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box CB700, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 19428-2959; phone: (800) 262-1373; website:
www.astm.org.
(1) ASTM D3359-23 Standard Test Methods for Rating Adhesion by Tape Test, approved February 1, 2023; § 1242.5(c).
(2) [Reserved]
(b) National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA), 1300 17th St. N, Arlington, VA 22209; phone: (703) 841-3200; website:
www.nema.org.
(1) ANSI Z535.4-2011(R2017), American National Standard for Product Safety Signs and Labels, ANSI-approved October 20, 2017 (ANSI Z535.4-2011); §§ 1242.6(d).
(2) [Reserved]

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ).
NEMA standards are also available from ANSI, which provides a free, read-only copy of the standard at
https://ibr.ansi.org/Standards/nema.aspx.
American National Standards Institute (ANSI), 25 West 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036, USA, telephone: (212) 642-4900,
www.ansi.org.
§ 1242.9
Severability.
The provisions of this part are separate and severable from one another. If any provision is stayed or determined to be invalid, it is the Commission's intention that the remaining provisions shall continue in effect.
Pt. 1243

# PART 1243—SAFETY STANDARD FOR INFANT SUPPORT CUSHIONS (Eff. 5-5-25)
Sec.
1243.1
Scope, purpose, application, and exemptions.
1243.2
Definitions.
1243.3
General requirements.
1243.4
Performance requirements.
1243.5
Test methods.
1243.6
Marking and labeling.
1243.7
Instructional literature.
1243.8
Incorporation by reference.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056a.

# Source:
89 FR 87487, Nov. 4, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 87487, Nov. 4, 2024, part 1243 was added, effective May 5, 2025.
§ 1243.1
Scope, purpose, application, and exemptions.
(a)
Scope and purpose.
The consumer product safety standard in this part prescribes requirements to reduce the risk of death and injury from hazards associated with
infant support cushions,
as defined in § 1243.2. This includes but is not limited to
infant positioners,
nursing pillows with a dual use for lounging,
infant loungers,
and infant props or cushions used to support an infant. All
infant support cushions
must be tested according to the requirements of § 1243.5 and comply with all requirements of this part.
(b)
Application.
All infant support cushions manufactured after May 5, 2025, are subject to the requirements of this part.
(c)
Exemptions.
Products subject to another standard listed in 16 CFR 1130.2(a) are exempt from this part. Nursing pillows that also meet the definition of infant lounger in § 1243.2, however, are not exempt from this part.
§ 1243.2
Definitions.
Conspicuous
means visible, when the product is in each manufacturer's recommended use position, to a person while placing an infant into or onto the product.
Infant lounger
means an infant support cushion with a raised perimeter, a recess, or other area that provides a place for an infant to recline or to be in a supine, prone, or recumbent position.
Infant positioner
means a product intended to help keep an infant in a particular position while supine or prone.
Infant support cushion
means an infant product that is filled with or comprised of resilient material such as foam, fibrous batting, or granular material or with a gel, liquid, or gas, and which is marketed, designed, or intended to support an infant's weight or any portion of an infant while reclining or in a supine, prone, or recumbent position. This definition includes any removable covers, or slipcovers, sold on or together with an infant support cushion.
Occupant support surface (OSS)
means the area that holds up and bears the infant or any portion of the infant.
Seat bight line
means the intersection of the seat back surface with the seat bottom surface.
Sidewall
means any wall at the edge of the occupant support surface.
§ 1243.3
General requirements.
(a)
Hazardous sharp edges or points.
There shall be no hazardous sharp points or edges as determined by 16 CFR 1500.48 and 1500.49 before or after the product has been tested.
(b)
Small parts.
There shall be no small parts as determined by 16 CFR part 1501 before testing or presented as a result of testing.
(c)
Lead in paints.
All paint and surface coatings on the product shall comply with the requirements of 16 CFR part 1303.
(d)
Toys.
Toy accessories attached to, removable from, or sold with an infant support cushion, as well as their means of attachment, shall comply with the applicable requirements of 16 CFR part 1250.
(e)
Removal of components.
When tested in accordance with § 1243.5(k), any removal of components that are accessible to an infant while in the product or from any position around the product shall not present a small part, sharp point, or sharp edge as required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(f)
Permanency of labeling and warnings.
(1) Warning labels, whether paper or non-paper, shall be permanent when tested in accordance with § 1243.5(b)(1) through (3).
(2) Warning statements applied directly onto the surface of the product by hot stamping, heat transfer, printing, wood burning, or any other method shall be permanent when tested in accordance with § 1243.5(b)(4).
(3) Non-paper labels shall not liberate small parts when tested in accordance with § 1243.5(b)(5).
(4) Warning labels that are attached to the fabric of the product with seams shall remain in contact with the fabric around the entire perimeter of the label when the product is in all manufacturer-recommended use positions and when tested in accordance with § 1243.5(b)(3).
(g)
Convertible products.
If the infant support cushion can be converted into another product for which a consumer product safety standard exists, the product also shall comply with the applicable requirements of that standard.
§ 1243.4
Performance requirements.
(a)
Restraint.
The product shall not include a restraint system.
(b)
Seam strength.
When tested in accordance with § 1243.5(j), fabric/mesh seams and points of attachment shall not fail such that a small part, sharp point, or sharp edge is presented, as required in § 1243.3(a) and (b).
(c)
Bounded openings.
When tested to § 1243.5(c), all completely bounded openings that exist in the front, sides, or back of the occupant lounging area, or that are created when an accessory is attached to the product, shall not allow complete passage of the small head probe unless it allows the complete passage of the large head probe.
(d)
Maximum incline angle.
The maximum incline angle shall not exceed 10 degrees when tested in accordance with § 1243.5(d).
(e)
Firmness
—(1)
Occupant support surface firmness.
When the 3-inch diameter (figure 1 to this paragraph (e)(1)) hemispherical head probe is applied according to the test method for occupant support surface firmness, § 1243.5(f), the force required for a one-inch displacement shall be greater than 10 Newtons (N).
Figure 1 to paragraph (e)(1)—3-inch Head Probe
ER04NO24.003
(2)
Sidewall firmness.
For products with a sidewall, when the 3-inch diameter hemispherical head probe is applied according to the test method for sidewall firmness in § 1243.5(g), the force required for a one-inch displacement shall be greater than 10 N.
(3)
Firmness at intersection of sidewall and occupant support surface.
For products with a sidewall, when the 3-inch diameter hemispherical head probe is applied according to the test method for firmness at the intersection of sidewall and occupant support surface in § 1243.5(h), the force required for a one-inch displacement shall be greater than 10 N.
(f)
Sidewall angle.
For products with a sidewall, the sidewall angle shall be greater than 90 degrees when determined according to the sidewall angle determination in § 1243.5(i).
§ 1243.5
Test methods.
(a)
Test conditions.
Condition the product for 48 hours at 23 °C ± 2 °C (73.4 °F ± 3.6 °F) and a relative humidity of 50% ± 5%.
(b)
Permanence of labels and warnings.
(1) A paper label (excluding labels attached by a seam) shall be considered permanent if, during an attempt to remove it without the aid of tools or solvents, it cannot be removed, it tears into pieces upon removal, or such action damages the surface to which it is attached.
(2) A non-paper label (excluding labels attached by a seam) shall be considered permanent if, during an attempt to remove it without the aid of tools or solvents, it cannot be removed or such action damages the surface to which it is attached.
(3) A warning label attached by a seam shall be considered permanent if it does not detach when subjected to a 15-lbs (67-N) pull force applied in any direction using a
3/4
-inch diameter clamp surface.
(4) Adhesion test for warnings applied directly onto the surface of the product.
(i) Apply the tape test defined in Test Method B, Cross-Cut Tape Test of ASTM D3359 (incorporated by reference, see § 1243.8), eliminating parallel cuts.
(ii) Perform this test once in each different location where warnings are applied.
(iii) The warning statements will be considered permanent if the printing in the area tested is still legible and attached after being subjected to this test.
(5) A non-paper label, during an attempt to remove it without the aid of tools or solvents, shall not be removed or shall not fit entirely within the
small parts cylinder defined in 16 CFR part 1501 if it can be removed.
(c)
Head entrapment test.
For all applicable openings, rotate the small head probe (figure 1 to this paragraph (c)) to the orientation most likely to fail and gradually apply an outward force from the occupant lounging area of 25 lbs (111 N). Apply the force to the probe in the direction most likely to fail within a period of 5 seconds and maintain it for an additional 10 seconds. If the small head probe can pass entirely through the opening in any orientation, determine if the large head probe (figure 2 to this paragraph (c)) can be freely inserted through the opening.
Figure 1 to paragraph (c)—Small Head Probe
ER04NO24.004
Figure 2 to paragraph (c)—Large Head Probe
ER04NO24.005
(d)
Maximum incline test.
(1) Equipment shall include:
(i) Digital protractor with accuracy ±1 degree;
(ii) Hinged weight gauge—newborn, requirements for part masses and assembly (figure 3 to this paragraph (d)(1)(ii));
Figure 3 to paragraph (d)(1)(ii)—Hinged Weight Gauge—Newborn, Requirements for Part Masses and Assembly
ER04NO24.006
(iii) Hinged weight gauge-newborn, requirements for part dimensions (figure 4 to this paragraph (d)(1)(iii)); and
Figure 4 to paragraph (d)(1)(iii)—Hinged Weight Gauge—Newborn, Requirements for Part Dimensions
ER04NO24.007
(iv) A test base that is horizontal, flat, firm, and smooth.
(2) If applicable, place the product in the manufacturer's recommended highest seat back angle position intended for lounging.
(3) If applicable, place the hinged weight gauge—newborn in the product and position the gauge with the hinge centered over the seat bight line and the upper plate of the gauge back. Place a digital protractor on the upper torso/head area lengthwise and measure the incline angle.
(4) Place the head/torso portion of the newborn hinged weight gauge on the product according to the manufacturer's recommended use position with the seat portion of the gauge, depending on the product design, allowed to lay freely on the product or on the test base (figure 5 to this paragraph (d)(4)).
Figure 5 to paragraph (d)(4)—Test Fixture Configuration to Measure Incline Angle on an Infant Support Cushion Product
ER04NO24.008
(5) Move and rotate the newborn hinged weight gauge the minimum amount necessary such that the head/torso portion rests on an OSS that could foreseeably support an infant's head, and place the head/torso portion of the gauge according to all situations that apply:
(i) In tests on products with an OSS for the infant's body, align the top edge of the head/torso portion of the gauge to coincide with a plumb line to the outermost edge of the OSS-head.
(ii) In all tests, place the seat portion of the gauge on the test base, adjust the newborn gauge to the greatest incline angle in which the top edge of the gauge maintains contact with the top surface of the product.
(6) If a product's seating bight area prevents reasonable positioning of the head/torso portion to the outermost edge, then position the seat portion of the newborn hinged weight gauge as far forward as possible towards the outermost edge and allow the head/torso portion of the gauge to rest on the product.
(7) Place a digital protractor lengthwise on the head/torso portion of the gauge and measure the incline angle.
(8) Measure the incline angle at the manufacturer's recommended use location(s), at feasible locations such as perpendicular to the recommended use location(s), and at least one location likely to fail in which the newborn gauge seat is supported on the test surface.
(9) Determine the maximum incline angle from the incline angle measurements.
(e)
Firmness test setup.
(1) Equipment shall include:
(i) Force gauge with accuracy ± 0.05 N (0.01 lbs).
(ii) Distance gauge with accuracy ± 0.01 inches (0.03 cm).
(2) Align the axis of the 3-inch head probe (figure 1 to paragraph (e)(1) of § 1243.4) with a force gauge and parallel to a distance measurement device or gauge.
(3) Use a lead screw or similar device to control movement along a single direction.
(4) Support the firmness fixture to a test base such that the head probe does not deflect more than 0.01 inches (0.025 cm) under a 10.0 N (2.24 lbs) load applied in each orientation required in the test methods.
(f)
Occupant support surface firmness test method.
Perform the following steps to determine the occupant support surface firmness of the product as received from the manufacturer. For products sold with a slipcover on or together with the product, products shall be tested as assembled with the slipcover on the product. All products, including products one inch or less in thickness, are required to be tested.
See
figure 6 to this paragraph (f).
(1) Orient the axis of the 3-inch head probe perpendicular to the surface of the product at each test location that is oriented greater than five degrees relative to the test base or align the axis of the probe perpendicular to the test base (vertically) at each test location that is oriented equal to or less than five degrees to the test base.
(2) The first test location shall be at the location of maximum thickness of the surface being tested, perpendicular to the test base.
(3) Lay the product, with the occupant support surface facing up, on a test base that is horizontal, flat, firm, and smooth.
(4) Prevent movement of the product in a manner that does not affect the force or deflection measurement of the product surface under test. Provide no additional support beneath the product.
(5) Advance the probe into the product and set the deflection to 0.0 inches when a force of 0.1 N (0.02 lbs) force is reached.
(6) Continue to advance the head probe into the product at a rate not to exceed 0.1 inch per second and pause when the force exceeds 10.0 N (2.24 lbs), or the deflection is equal to 1.00 inches (2.54 cm).
(7) Wait 30 seconds. If the deflection is less than 1.00 inches and the force is 10.0 N or less, repeat the steps in paragraphs (f)(6) and (7) of this section.
(8) Record the final force and deflection when the deflection has reached 1.00 inches or when the force has exceeded 10.0 N.
(9) If the maximum thickness of the OSS is greater than 1.0 inches (2.54 cm), perform additional tests, space permitting, at the geometric center of the OSS, at four locations along the product's longitudinal and lateral axes therefrom, 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) towards center from the intersection of the sidewall and OSS, and at one location most likely to fail.
(10) Repeat the occupant support surface firmness tests on any other occupant support surface and in all intended and feasible configurations that could affect an occupant support surface, such as the folding or layering of parts of the product.
Figure 6 to paragraph (f)—Test Configuration for Occupant Support Surface Firmness Test
ER04NO24.009
(g)
Sidewall firmness test method.
For products with a sidewall, perform the steps in paragraphs (f)(1) through (8) of this section to determine the sidewall firmness of the product as received from the manufacturer and then perform the following:
(1) Perform a minimum of four additional tests, located at intervals not to exceed 6 inches along the entire top perimeter of the sidewall, starting from the maximum side height location, and at one additional location most likely to fail.
(2) Repeat the sidewall firmness test in all the intended or feasible configurations that could affect the sidewall firmness, such as the folding or layering of parts of the product.
(h)
Intersection of sidewall and occupant support surface firmness.
For products with a sidewall, perform the following steps to determine the intersection firmness of the product as received from the manufacturer (figure 7 to this paragraph (h)).
(1) Orient the axis of the 3-inch head probe perpendicular to the sidewall perimeter at an angle from horizontal that bisects the angle determined in sidewall angle determination with the axis directed at the intersection of the occupant support surface and the sidewall.
(2) The first test location shall be at the location of maximum product thickness parallel to the test base.
(3) Perform the steps in paragraphs (f)(3) through (8) of this section.
(4) Perform a minimum of four additional tests, located at intervals not to exceed six inches along the entire inside perimeter of the intersection of the sidewall and OSS, and at one additional location most likely to fail.
(5) Repeat the intersection of sidewall and occupant support surface firmness test in all the intended or feasible configurations that could affect the intersection firmness, such as the folding or layering of parts of the product.
Figure 7 to paragraph (h)—Test Configuration for Intersection of Sidewall and Occupant Support Surface Firmness
ER04NO24.010
(i)
Sidewall angle determination.
For products with a sidewall, perform the following steps to determine if the angle between the sidewall and OSS is 90 degrees or less, or to measure the angle above 90 degrees.
See
figure 8 to this paragraph (i).
(1) Orient the 3-inch (7.62 cm) diameter hemispherical head probe vertically and place it over the OSS with the cylindrical surface of the probe tangent to the intersection of the sidewall and the OSS. Advance the probe into the product until a downward force of 10 N (2.2 lbs) force is reached.
(2) After 30 seconds, determine whether the sidewall is in contact with the cylindrical side of the 3-inch head probe. If the sidewall contacts the cylindrical part of the probe, the sidewall angle is equal to or less than 90 degrees.
(3) For sidewall angles greater than 90 degrees, calculate the sidewall angle as 90 degrees plus the measured angle between the cylindrical side of the 3-inch head probe and the sidewall.
(4) Determine a minimum of four sidewall angles at locations not to exceed 6-inch (15.2 cm) intervals along the intersection of the sidewall and OSS.
(5) Measure the angle with a protractor or gauge placed to the depth of and in contact with the cylindrical side of the 3-inch probe side and the sidewall.
Figure 8 to paragraph (i)—Test Fixture Configuration for Sidewall Angle Measurement
ER04NO24.011
(j)
Seam strength test method.
(1) Equipment shall include:
(i) Clamps with 0.75 inches (1.9 cm) diameter clamping surfaces capable of holding fabric and with a means to attach a force gauge.
See
figure 9 to this paragraph (j)(1), or equivalent.
(ii) A force gauge, accuracy ± 0.5 lbs (1.1 N).
Figure 9 to paragraph (j)(1)—Seam Clamp
ER04NO24.012
(2) Clamp the fabric of the infant support cushion on each side of the seam under test with the 0.75 inches clamping surfaces placed not less than 0.5 inches (1.2 cm) from the seam.
(3) Apply a tension of 15 lbs (67 N) evenly over 5 seconds and maintain for an additional 10 seconds.
(4) Repeat the test on every distinct seam and every 12 inches (15 cm) along each seam.
(k)
Removal of components test method
—(1)
Suitable devices.
For torque and tension tests, any suitable device may be used to grasp the component that does not interfere with the attachment elements that are stressed during the tests.
(2)
Torque test.
Gradually apply a 4 lbs-in (0.4 N-m) torque over 5 seconds in a clockwise rotation to 180 degrees or until 4 lbs-in has been reached. Maintain for 10 seconds. Release and allow component to return to relaxed state. Repeat the torque test in a counterclockwise rotation.
(3)
Tension test.
For components that can reasonably be grasped between thumb and forefinger, or teeth, apply a 15 lbs (67 N) force over 5 seconds, in a direction to remove the component. Maintain for 10 seconds. A clamp such as shown in figure 10 to this paragraph (k)(3) may be used if the gap between the back of the component and the base material is 0.04 inches (0.1 cm) or more.
Figure 10 to paragraph (k)(3)—Tension Test Adapter Clamp
ER04NO24.013
§ 1243.6
Marking and labeling.
(a)
General markings.
Each product and its retail package shall be marked or labeled clearly and legibly to indicate the following:
(1) The name, place of business (city, state, and mailing address, including zip code), and telephone number of the manufacturer, distributor, or seller.
(2) A code mark or other means that identifies the date (month and year as a minimum) of manufacture.
(3) The marking or labeling in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are not required on the retail package if they are on the product and are visible in their entirety through the retail package. When no retail packaging is used to enclose the product, the information provided on the product shall be used for determining compliance with paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. Cartons and other materials used exclusively for shipping the product are not considered retail packaging.
(b)
Permanency.
The marking and labeling on the product shall be permanent.
(c)
Upholstery labeling.
Any upholstery labeling required by law shall not be used to meet the requirements of this section.
(d)
Warning design for product.
(1) The warnings shall be easy to read and understand and be in the English language at a minimum.
(2) Any marking or labeling provided in addition to those required by this section shall not contradict or confuse the meaning of the required information or be otherwise misleading to the consumer.
(3) The warnings shall be conspicuous and permanent.
(4) The warnings shall conform to ANSI Z535.4-2011(R2017) (incorporated by reference, see § 1243.8) sections 6.1-6.4, 7.2-7.6.3, and 8.1, with the following changes.
(i) In sections 6.2.2, 7.3, 7.5, and 8.1.2, replace “should” with “shall.”
(ii) In section 7.6.3, replace “should (when feasible)” with “shall.”
(iii) Strike the word “safety” when used immediately before a color (for example, replace “safety white” with “white”).

# Note 1 to paragraph (d)(4)(iii):
For reference, ANSI Z535.1, American National Standard for Safety Colors, provides a system for specifying safety colors. See note 1 to § 1243.8(a) for ANSI contact information.
(5) The safety alert symbol and the signal word “WARNING” shall be at least 0.2 inches (5 mm) high. The remainder of the text shall be in characters whose upper case shall be at least 0.1 inches (2.5 mm), except where otherwise specified.

# Note 2 to paragraph (d)(5):
For improved warning readability, typefaces with large height-to- width ratios, which are commonly identified as “condensed,” “compressed,” “narrow,” or similar, should be avoided.
(6) The message panel shall have the following text layout requirements:
(i) The text shall be left-aligned, ragged-right for all but one-line text messages, which can be left-aligned or centered.
See
figure 1 to this paragraph (d)(6) for examples of left-aligned text.

# Note 3 to paragraph (d)(6)(i):
Left-aligned means that the text is aligned along the left margin, and in the case of multiple columns of text, along the left side of each individual column.
(ii) The text in each column should be arranged in list or outline format, with precautionary (hazard avoidance) statements preceded by bullet points. Multiple precautionary statements shall be separated by bullet points if paragraph formatting is used.
Figure 1 to paragraph (d)(6)—Examples of Left-Aligned Text
ER04NO24.014

# Note 4 to figure 1 to paragraph (d)(6):
The text shown for the warnings in figure 1 to this paragraph (d)(6) is filler text, known as lorem ipsum, commonly used to demonstrate graphic elements.
(7) All infant support cushions are required to contain a warning with the content and format depicted in this section as figure 2 (for products without tummy time) or figure 3 (if the product has a tummy time feature) to this paragraph (d)(7).
Figure 2 to paragraph (d)(7)—Warning for Product Without Tummy Time
ER04NO24.015
Figure 3 to paragraph (d)(7)—Warning for Tummy Time Product
ER04NO24.016
(e)
Warning statements.
Each product shall contain the warning statements shown on figure 2 (for products without tummy time) or figure 3 (if the product has a tummy time feature) to paragraph (d)(7) of this section, at a minimum. Slipcovers sold on, or together with the product, shall contain the warning statement shown on figure 2 or 3 to paragraph (d)(7) of this section, as applicable.
§ 1243.7
Instructional literature.
(a) Instructions shall be provided with the product and shall be easy to read and understand and shall be in the English language at a minimum. These instructions shall include information on assembly, maintenance, cleaning, and use, where applicable.
(b) The instructions shall address the following additional warnings:
(1) Read all instructions before using this product.
(2) Keep instructions for future use.
(3) Do not use this product if it is damaged or broken.
(4) Instructions shall indicate the manufacturer's recommended maximum weight, height, age, developmental level, or combination thereof, of the occupant for which the infant support cushion is intended. If this product is not intended for use by a child for a specific reason, the instructions shall state this limitation.
(c) The cautions and warnings in the instructions shall meet the requirements specified in § 1243.6(d)(4) though (6), except that section 6.4 and sections 7.2-7.6.3 of ANSI Z535.4-2011(R2017) (incorporated by reference, see § 1243.8) need not be applied. However, the signal word and safety alert symbol shall contrast with the background of the signal word panel, and the cautions and warnings shall contrast with the background of the instructional literature.

# Note 1 to paragraph (c):
For example, the signal word, safety alert symbol, and the warnings may be black letters on a white background, white letters on a black background, navy blue letters on an off-white background, or some other high-contrast combination.
(d) Any instructions provided in addition to those required by this section shall not contradict or confuse the meaning of the required information or be otherwise misleading to the consumer.
§ 1243.8
Incorporation by reference.
Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814; phone (301) 504-7479; email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from the following sources:
(a) National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA), 1300 17th St. N, Arlington, VA 22209; phone: (703) 841-3200; website:
www.nema.org.
(1) ANSI Z535.4-2011(R2017),
American National Standard for Product Safety Signs and Labels,
approved October 20, 2017; approved for §§ 1243.6 and 1243.7.
(2) [Reserved]

# Note 1 to paragraph (a):
NEMA standards are also available from the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), which provides a free, read-only copy of the standard at
https://ibr.ansi.org/Standards/nema.aspx.
Contact ANSI by mail at American National Standards Institute, 25 West 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036, USA; phone: (212) 642-4900; website:
www.ansi.org.
(b) ASTM International (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box CB700, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 19428-2959; phone: (800) 262-1373; website:
www.astm.org.
(1) ASTM D3359-23,
Standard Test Methods for Rating Adhesion by Tape Test,
approved February 1, 2023; approved for § 1243.5.
(2) [Reserved]
Pt. 1250

# PART 1250—SAFETY STANDARD MANDATING ASTM F963 FOR TOYS
Sec.
1250.1
Scope.
1250.2
Requirements for toy safety.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056b.

# Source:
82 FR 8993, Feb. 2, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1250.1
Scope.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for toys that mandates provisions of ASTM F963.
§ 1250.2
Requirements for toy safety.
(a) Each toy must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F963-23
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Toy Safety,
approved on August 1, 2023. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.
A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9500;
www.astm.org.
(b) Pursuant to section 106(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, section 4.2 and Annex 5 or any provision of ASTM F963 that restates or incorporates an existing mandatory standard or ban promulgated by the Commission or by statute or any provision that restates or incorporates a regulation promulgated by the Food and Drug Administration or any statute administered by the Food
and Drug Administration are not part of the mandatory standard incorporated in paragraph (a) of this section.
[89 FR 3351, Jan. 18, 2024]
Pt. 1251

# PART 1251—TOYS: DETERMINATIONS REGARDING HEAVY ELEMENTS LIMITS FOR CERTAIN MATERIALS
Sec.
1251.1
The toy standard and testing requirements.
1251.2
Wood.

# Authority:
Sec. 3, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016; 15 U.S.C. 2063(d)(3)(B).

# Source:
80 FR 78656, Dec. 17, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1251.1
The toy standard and testing requirements.
The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (“CPSIA”) made provisions of ASTM F963, Consumer Product Safety Specifications for Toy Safety (“toy standard”), a mandatory consumer product safety standard. 15 U.S.C. 2056b. The toy standard requires that surface coating materials and accessible substrates of toys that can be sucked, mouthed, or ingested, must comply with solubility limits that the toy standard establishes for eight heavy elements. Materials used in toys subject to the heavy elements limits in the toy standard must comply with the third party testing requirements of section 14(a)(2) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (“CPSA”), unless listed in § 1251.2.
§ 1251.2
Wood.
(a) Unfinished and untreated wood does not exceed the limits for the heavy elements established in the toy standard with a high degree of assurance as that term is defined in 16 CFR part 1107, provided that the material has been neither treated nor adulterated with materials that could result in the addition of any of the heavy elements listed in the toy standard at levels above their respective solubility limits.
(b) For purposes of this section, unfinished and untreated wood means wood harvested from the trunks of trees with no added surface coatings (such as, varnish, paint, shellac, or polyurethane) and no materials added to the wood substrate (such as, stains, dyes, preservatives, antifungals, or insecticides). Unfinished and untreated wood does not include manufactured or engineered woods (such as pressed wood, plywood, particle board, or fiberboard).
Pt. 1252

# PART 1252—CHILDREN'S PRODUCTS, CHILDREN'S TOYS, AND CHILD CARE ARTICLES: DETERMINATIONS REGARDING LEAD, ASTM F963 ELEMENTS, AND PHTHALATES FOR ENGINEERED WOOD PRODUCTS
Sec.
1252.1
Children's products, children's toys, and child care articles containing lead, ASTM F963 elements, and phthalates in engineered wood products and testing requirements.
1252.2
Definitions.
1252.3
Determinations for engineered wood products.

# Authority:
Sec. 3, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016; 15 U.S.C. 2063(d)(3)(B).

# Source:
83 FR 28991, June 22, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1252.1
Children's products, children's toys, and child care articles containing lead, ASTM F963 elements, and phthalates in engineered wood products and testing requirements.
(a) Section 101(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (CPSIA) provides that any children's product, material, or component part or a children's product must comply with a lead content limit that does not exceed 100 parts per million. Materials used in children's products subject to section 101 of the CPSIA must comply with the third party testing requirements of section 14(a)(2) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA), unless listed in 16 CFR 1500.91.
(b) Section 106 of the CPSIA made provisions of ASTM F963, Consumer Product Safety Specifications for Toy Safety, a mandatory consumer product safety standard. Among the mandated provisions is section 4.3.5 of ASTM F963 which requires that surface coating materials and accessible substrates of
children's toys that can be sucked, mouthed, or ingested, must comply with solubility limits that the toy standard establishes for eight elements. Materials used in children's toys subject to section 4.3.5 of the toy standard must comply with the third party testing requirements of section 14(a)(2) of the CPSA, unless listed in 16 CFR 1251.2.
(c) Section 108(a) of the CPSIA permanently prohibits any children's toy or child care article that contains concentrations of more than 0.1 percent of di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), dibutyl phthalate (DBP), or benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP). In accordance with section 108(b)(3) of the CPSIA, 16 CFR part 1307 prohibits any children's toy or child care article that contains concentrations of more than 0.1 percent of diisononyl phthalate (DINP), diisobutyl phthalate (DIBP), di-
n
-pentyl phthalate (DPENP), di-
n
-hexyl phthalate (DHEXP), or dicyclohexyl phthalate (DCHP). Materials used in children's toys and child care articles subject to section 108(a) of the CPSIA and 16 CFR part 1307 must comply with the third party testing requirements of section 14(a)(2) of the CPSA, unless listed in 16 CFR 1308.2.
§ 1252.2
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions given in sections 101, 106, and 108 of the CPSIA, the following definitions apply for this part 1252.
Post-consumer wood waste
describes wood waste that is comprised of materials that are recovered from their original use and subsequently used in a new product. Examples of this type of waste include recycled demolition wood, packaging materials such as pallets and crates, used wood from landscape care (
i.e.,
from urban and highway trees, hedges, and gardens), discarded furniture, and waste wood from industrial, construction, and commercial activities.
Pre-consumer wood waste
describes wood materials that have been recycled from an industrial process before being made available for consumer use. Examples of this type of waste include trimmings from engineered wood product (EWP) panel manufacturing, sawdust from cutting logs, or remaining wood pieces from sawing a log into framing lumber.
Unfinished
means an EWP that does not have any surface treatments applied at manufacture, such as factory-applied coatings. Examples of such treatments may include paint or similar surface coating materials, wood glue, or metal fasteners, such as nails or screws.
Untreated
means an EWP that does not have any additional finishes applied at manufacture. Examples of such finishes may include flame retardants or rot resistant finishes.
Virgin wood
describes wood logs, fibers, chips, or layers that have not been recycled from a previous use.
§ 1252.3
Determinations for engineered wood products.
(a) The following engineered wood products do not exceed the lead content limits with a high degree of assurance as that term is defined in 16 CFR part 1107:
(1) Particleboard that is untreated and unfinished made from virgin wood or pre-consumer wood waste;
(2) Hardwood plywood that is untreated and unfinished made from virgin wood or pre-consumer wood waste; and
(3) Medium-density fiberboard that is untreated and unfinished made from virgin wood or pre-consumer wood waste.
(b) The following engineered wood products do not exceed the ASTM F963 elements solubility limits set forth in 16 CFR part 1250 with a high degree of assurance as that term is defined in 16 CFR part 1107:
(1) Particleboard that is untreated and unfinished made from virgin wood or pre-consumer wood waste;
(2) Hardwood plywood that is untreated and unfinished made from virgin wood or pre-consumer wood waste; and
(3) Medium-density fiberboard that is untreated and unfinished made from virgin wood or pre-consumer wood waste.
(c) The following engineered wood products do not exceed the phthalates content limits with a high degree of assurance as that term is defined in 16 CFR part 1107:
(1) Particleboard that is untreated and unfinished made from virgin wood or pre-consumer wood waste;
(2) Hardwood plywood that is untreated and unfinished made from virgin wood or pre-consumer wood waste and does not contain polyvinyl acetate (PVAc) adhesive formulations; and
(3) Medium-density fiberboard that is untreated and unfinished made from virgin wood or pre-consumer wood waste.
(d) Accessible component parts of children's products, children's toys, and child care articles made with EWPs, listed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are not required to be third party tested pursuant to section 14(a)(2) of the CPSA and 16 CFR part 1107.
(e) Accessible component parts of children's products, children's toys, and child care articles made with engineered wood products not listed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, or that contain post-consumer wood waste, are required to be third party tested pursuant to section 14(a)(2) of the CPSA and 16 CFR part 1107 and sections 101, 106, or 108 of the CPSIA, as applicable.
Pt. 1253

# PART 1253—CHILDREN'S TOYS AND CHILD CARE ARTICLES: DETERMINATIONS REGARDING THE ASTM F963 ELEMENTS AND PHTHALATES FOR UNFINISHED MANUFACTURED FIBERS
Sec.
1253.1
Children's toys and child care articles containing the ASTM F963 elements and phthalates in manufactured fibers and testing requirements.
1253.2
Determinations for unfinished manufactured fibers.

# Authority:
Sec. 3, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016; 15 U.S.C. 2063(d)(3)(B).

# Source:
85 FR 33020, June 1, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1253.1
Children's toys and child care articles containing the ASTM F963 elements and phthalates in manufactured fibers and testing requirements.
(a) Section 106 of the CPSIA made most provisions of ASTM F963, Consumer Product Safety Specifications for Toy Safety, a mandatory consumer product safety standard. 16 CFR part 1250 codified these provisions by incorporating by reference ASTM F963,
see
16 CFR1250.1. Among the mandated provisions is section 4.3.5 of ASTM F963, which requires that surface coating materials and accessible substrates of children's toys that can be sucked, mouthed, or ingested, must comply with solubility limits that the toy standard establishes for eight elements. Materials used in children's toys subject to section 4.3.5 of the toy standard must comply with the third party testing requirements of section 14(a)(2) of the CPSA, unless listed in § 1253.2.
(b) Section 108(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (CPSIA) permanently prohibits any children's toy or child care article that contains concentrations of more than 0.1 percent of di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), dibutyl phthalate (DBP), or benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP). In accordance with section 108(b)(3) of the CPSIA, 16 CFR part 1307 prohibits any children's toy or child care article that contains concentrations of more than 0.1 percent of diisononyl phthalate (DINP), diisobutyl phthalate (DIBP), di-n-pentyl phthalate (DPENP), di-n-hexyl phthalate (DHEXP), or dicyclohexyl phthalate (DCHP). Materials used in children's toys and child care articles subject to section 108(a) of the CPSIA and 16 CFR part 1307 must comply with the third party testing requirements of section 14(a)(2) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA), unless listed in § 1253.2.
§ 1253.2
Determinations for unfinished manufactured fibers.
(a) The following definition for an unfinished manufactured fiber applies for this part 1253. An unfinished manufactured fiber is one that has no chemical additives beyond those required to manufacture the fiber. For unfinished manufactured fibers as defined in this rule, the unfinished manufactured fiber is free of any chemical additives added to impart color or some desirable performance property, such as flame retardancy.
(b) The following unfinished manufactured fibers do not exceed the ASTM F963 elements solubility limits set forth in 16 CFR part 1250 with a high degree of assurance as that term is defined in 16 CFR part 1107:
(1) Nylon;
(2) Polyurethane (Spandex);
(3) Viscose Rayon;
(4) Acrylic and Modacrylic; and
(5) Natural Rubber Latex.
(c) The following unfinished manufactured fibers do not exceed the phthalates content limits set forth in 16 CFR part 1307 with a high degree of assurance as that term is defined in 16 CFR part 1107:
(1) Polyester (polyethylene terephthalate, PET);
(2) Nylon;
(3) Polyurethane (Spandex);
(4) Viscose Rayon;
(5) Acrylic and Modacrylic; and
(6) Natural Rubber Latex.
(d) Accessible component parts of children's toys and child care articles made with the unfinished manufactured fibers, listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are not required to be third-party tested pursuant to section 14(a)(2) of the CPSA and 16 CFR part 1107.
(e) Accessible component parts of children's toys and child care articles made with manufactured fibers not listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are required to be third party tested pursuant to section 14(a)(2) of the CPSA and 16 CFR part 1107.
Pt. 1260

# PART 1260—SAFETY STANDARD FOR OPERATING CORDS ON CUSTOM WINDOW COVERINGS
Sec.
1260.1
Scope and definitions.
1260.2
Requirements.
1260.3
Prohibited stockpiling.
1260.4
Findings.
1260.5
Standards incorporated by reference.
1260.6
Severability.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056, 15 U.S.C. 2058, and 5 U.S.C. 553.

# Source:
87 FR 73189, Nov. 28, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1260.1
Scope and definitions.
(a) This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for operating cords on custom window coverings. The effective date of this part is May 30, 2023.
(b) The consumer product safety standard in this part relies on the following definitions in section 3 of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 1260.5):
(1)
Custom window covering
(custom blinds, shades, and shadings) has the same meaning as defined in section 3, definition 5.01, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, as any window covering that is not classified as a stock window covering.
(2)
Stock window covering
(stock blinds, shades, and shadings) has the same meaning as defined in section 3, definition 5.02, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, as a window covering that is completely or substantially fabricated prior to being distributed in commerce and is a specific stock-keeping unit (SKU). Even when the seller, manufacturer, or distributor modifies a pre-assembled product by adjusting to size, attaching the top rail or bottom rail, or tying cords to secure the bottom rail, the product is still considered stock. Online sales of the product or the size of the order such as multi-family housing do not make the product a non-stock product. These examples are provided in ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 to clarify that as long as the product is “substantially fabricated” prior to distribution in commerce, subsequent changes to the product do not change its categorization.
(3)
Operating cord
has the same meaning as defined in section 3, definition 2.19, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, as the portion of the cord that the user manipulates directly during operation (including lifting, lowering, tilting, rotating, and traversing).
(4)
Cord shroud
has the same meaning as defined in section 3, definition 2.09, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, as a device or material added to limit the accessibility of a cord or formation of a hazardous loop.
(5)
Cord retraction device
has the same meaning as defined in section 3, definition 2.08, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, as a passive device which winds and gathers cords when tension is no longer applied by the user.
(6)
Rigid cord shroud
is a cord shroud that is constructed of inflexible material, rendering the cord inaccessible as defined in Appendix C of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, to prevent a child from accessing a window covering cord.
(7)
Retractable cord
is a cord that extends when pulled by a user, and fully retracts when the user releases the cord, rendering the cord inaccessible as defined in Appendix C of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018.
(8)
Loop cord and bead chain restraining device
is a device, integrated to and installed on the window covering, that prevents the creation of hazardous loop from an accessible continuous operating cord.
(9)
Operating interface
is the part of the window covering that the user physically touches or grasps by hand or a tool to operate the window covering, for example a wand to tilt the slats of the product or the bottom rail to raise or lower the product.
§ 1260.2
Requirements.
(a)
Requirements for operating cords.
Each custom window covering shall comply with section 4.3.1 or 4.3.2.5.2, instead of section 4.3.2, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 1260.5).
(b)
Requirements for rigid cord shrouds.
If a custom window covering complies with paragraph (a) of this section by using a rigid cord shroud to make an operating cord inaccessible, the rigid cord shroud shall meet the requirements in section 6.3, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 and shall not have an accessible cord when tested for cord accessibility using the test methods defined in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Test methods for rigid cord shrouds: Center load test.
(i) Support each end of the rigid cord shroud, but do not restrict the rotation along the axial direction. Supports must be within 0.25 inches from the ends of the shroud as shown in figure 1 to this paragraph (b)(1)(i).

# Figure 1 to Paragraph (b)(1)(i)—Rigid Cord Shroud Test Set-Up
ER28NO22.018
(ii) Apply a 5-pound force at the center of the rigid cord shroud for at least 5 seconds as shown in figure 2 to this paragraph (b)(1)(ii).

# Figure 2 to Paragraph (b)(1)(ii)—Rigid Cord Shroud Center Load Test and Deflection Measurement
ER28NO22.019
(iii) Measure the maximum deflection of the shroud, while the 5-pound force is applied.
(iv) For rigid cord shrouds that are ≤19 inches, the deflection shall not exceed 1 inch. For every additional 19 inches in shroud length, the shroud can deflect an additional inch. See figure 2 to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(v) While continuing to apply the 5-pound force, determine if the cord(s) can be contacted by the cord shroud accessibility test probe shown in figure 3 to this paragraph (b)(1)(v). If the cord shroud accessibility test probe can touch any cord, the cord(s) are considered accessible.

# Figure 3 to Paragraph (b)(1)(v)—Cord Shroud Accessibility Test Probe
ER28NO22.020
(2)
Test methods for rigid cord shrouds: Axial torque test.
(i) Mount one end of the rigid cord shroud and restrict the rotation along the axial direction.
(ii) Apply a 4.4 in-lb. (0.5Nm) torque along the other end of the rigid cord shroud for 5 seconds.
(iii) While continuing to apply the torque, determine if the cord(s) can be contacted by the cord shroud accessibility test probe shown in figure 3 to paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section. If the cord shroud accessibility test probe can touch any cord, the cord(s) are considered accessible.
(c)
Requirements for cord retraction devices.
If a custom window covering complies with paragraph (a) of this section using a cord retraction device, the cord retraction device shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) When a 30 grams mass is applied to the operating interface, the cord retraction device shall maintain full retraction of the retractable cord such that the retractable cord is not accessible per Appendix C of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018.
(2) The maximum stroke length for a cord retraction device is 12 inches measured from the bottom of the headrail.
(3) The operating interface for cord retraction devices may not be a cord of any length including a short static or access cord. It may be a ring and pole, a wand or any other design that cannot bend on itself, eliminating the potential of creating a hazardous loop.
(4) The cord retraction device shall have a service life of at least 5,000 cycles after exposed portions or components have been subjected to 500 hours of ultraviolet (UV) exposure per American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists (AATCC) Test Method 16-2004, Option 3 of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018.
(d)
Requirements for loop cord and bead chain restraining devices.
If a custom window covering complies with paragraph (a) of this section using a loop cord and bead chain restraining device, the loop cord and bead chain restraining device shall meet the requirements in section 6.5, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 with an additional test as defined in paragraph (d)(l) of this section, and shall not form a hazardous loop when tested for a hazardous loop using the test methods defined in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section.
(1)
Test methods for loop cord and bead chain restraining device: UV stability and operational cycle test.
One sample loop cord and bead chain restraining device shall be tested to section 6.5.2.2, UV Stability, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, followed by section 6.5.2.1, Operational Cycle Test, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018.
(2)
Test methods for loop cord and bead chain restraining device: Center load test.
(i) Support each end of the loop cord and bead chain restraining device, but do not restrict the rotation along the axial direction. Supports must be within 0.25 inches from the ends of the shroud as shown in figure 4 to this paragraph (d)(2)(i).

# Figure 4 to Paragraph (d)(2)(i)—Cord and Bead Chain Restraining Device Test Set-Up
ER28NO22.021
(ii) Apply a 5-pound force at the center of the cord and bead chain restraining device for at least 5 seconds as shown in figure 5 to this paragraph (d)(2)(ii).

# Figure 5 to Paragraph (d)(2)(ii)—Loop Cord and Bead Chain Restraining Device Center Load Test and Deflection Measurement
ER28NO22.022
(iii) Measure the maximum deflection of the cord and bead chain restraining device, while the 5-pound force is applied.
(iv) For cord and bead chain restraining device that are ≤19 inches, the deflection shall not exceed 1 inch. For every additional 19 inches in shroud length, the shroud can deflect an additional inch. See figure 5 to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.
(v) While continuing to apply the 5-pound force, determine if the cord(s) create an opening between the cord and the restraining device. If the hazardous loop head probe (Figure D1 of ANSI/WCMA A1001-2018) can pass through the opening, the opening is considered a hazardous loop.
(3)
Test methods for cord and bead chain restraining devices: Axial torque test.
(i) Mount one end of the cord and bead chain restraining device and restrict the rotation along the axial direction.
(ii) Apply a 4.4 in-lb. (0.5 Nm) torque along the other end of the cord and bead chain restraining device for 5 seconds. While continuing to apply the torque, determine if the cord(s) if the cord(s) create an opening between the cord and the restraining device. If the hazardous loop head probe (Figure D1 of ANSI/WCMA A1001—2018) can pass through the opening, the opening is considered a hazardous loop.
§ 1260.3
Prohibited stockpiling.
(a)
Prohibited acts.
Manufacturers and importers of custom window coverings
shall not manufacture or import custom window coverings that do not comply with the requirements of this part in any 180-day period between November 28, 2022, and May 30, 2023, at a rate that is greater than 120 percent of the rate at which they manufactured or imported custom window coverings during the base period for the manufacturer.
(b)
Base period.
The base period for custom window coverings is any period of 180 consecutive dates, chosen by the manufacturer or importer, in the 5-year period immediately preceding November 28, 2022.
§ 1260.4
Findings.
(a)
General.
Section 9(f) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2058(f)) requires the Commission to make findings concerning the following topics and to include the findings in the rule.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Because the findings are required to be published in the rule, they reflect the information that was available to the Consumer Product Safety Commission (Commission, CPSC) when the standard was issued on November 28, 2022.
(b)
Degree and nature of the risk of injury.
(1) Operating cords on custom window coverings present an unreasonable risk of strangulation, including death and serious injury, to children 8 years old and younger. If children can access a window covering cord that is longer than 8 inches, children can wrap the cord around their neck, or insert their head into a loop formed by the cord and strangle. Strangulation can lead to serious injuries with permanent debilitating outcomes or death.
(2) Strangulation deaths and injuries on window covering cords are a “hidden hazard” because consumers do not understand or appreciate the hazard, or how quickly and silently strangulation occurs. Because young children may be left unsupervised for a few minutes or more in a room that is considered safe, such as a bedroom or family room, adult supervision is unlikely to eliminate or reduce the hazard. Children can wrap the cord around their neck, insert their head into a cord loop and get injured or die silently in a few minutes in any room, with or without supervision.
(3) Safety devices such as cord cleats and tension devices are unlikely to be effective to eliminate or substantially reduce the hazard. Cord cleats, for example, need to be attached on the wall and caregivers must wrap the cord around the cleat each and every time the window covering is raised or lowered. As incident data show, children can still access and become entangled in cords by climbing on furniture. Tension devices also need to be attached on the wall or windowsill, which may not occur (and may not be permitted in rental homes); even if properly installed, depending on how taut the cord loop is, it can still allow a child's head to enter the opening as observed in the incident data.
(4) A user research study found a lack of awareness on cord entanglement among caregivers; lack of awareness of the speed and mechanism of the injury; difficulty using and installing safety devices as primary reasons for not using them; and inability to recognize the purpose of the safety devices provided with window coverings. Warning labels are not likely to be effective because consumers are less likely to look for and read safety information about the products that they use frequently and are familiar with. Many of the children at risk of strangulation, those 8 years old and younger, cannot read or appreciate warning labels. Most of the window covering units involved in strangulation incidents had the permanent warning label on the product. Even well-designed warning labels will have limited effectiveness in communicating the hazard on this type of product.
(5) Every custom product sold with an accessible operating cord presents a hidden hazard to young children and can remain a hazard in the household for one to two decades or longer. Some consumers may believe that because they do not currently have young children living with them or visiting them, accessible operating cords on window coverings are not a safety hazard. However, window coverings last a long time, family circumstances change, and when homes are sold or new renters move in, the existing window coverings, if they are functional, usually remain installed and could be hazardous to new occupants with young children.
(6) Window coverings that comply with the operating cord requirements for stock window covering requirements in section 4.3.1 of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 1260.5) adequately address the strangulation hazard, by not allowing hazardous cords on the product by design, and therefore do not rely on consumer action. CPSC finds that all of the operating cord incidents it identified as involving custom window coverings likely would have been prevented if the requirements in section 4.3.1 of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 were in effect and covered the incident products.
(7) CPSC databases contain incident data showing a total of 209 reported fatal and nonfatal strangulations on window coverings among children eight years and younger, from January 2009 through December 2021. Nearly 48 percent of the reported incidents were fatal (100 of 209). Sixteen of the surviving victims required hospitalization, and six survived a hypoxic-ischemic episode or were pulseless and in full cardiac arrest when found, suffered severe neurological sequalae ranging from loss of memory to a long-term or permanent vegetative state requiring tracheotomy and gastrointestinal tube feeding. One victim remained hospitalized for 72 days, was released with 75 percent permanent brain damage, and is confined to a bed.
(8) Based on CPSC's Injury Cost Model, approximately 7.6 medically treated nonfatal injuries to children 8 years and younger occurred annually in the United States from 2009 through 2021. Based on National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) data and a separate study of child strangulations, a minimum of approximately 6.8 fatal strangulations related to window covering operating cords (excluding inner cords and lifting loops) occurred per year in the United States among children under eight years old from 2009-2020.
(c)
Number of consumer products subject to the rule.
Approximately 145 million corded custom window coverings were in use in the United States in 2020. About 25 million custom window coverings were shipped in the U.S. in 2020, and about 15.9 million of these were corded custom window coverings.
(d)
The public need for custom window coverings and the effects of the rule on their utility, cost, and availability.
(1) Consumers commonly use window coverings in their homes to control light coming in through windows, for privacy, and for decoration. The window covering market is divided into stock and custom products. The final rule addresses hazards associated with custom window coverings, which present the same risk of strangulation as stock window coverings, but custom window coverings allow consumers to choose from a wider variety of materials, colors, operating systems, or sizes, than stock products.
(2) The Commission does not expect the final rule to have a substantial effect on the utility or availability of custom window coverings, and the impact on cost depends on the product type. The Commission considered whether some consumers, such as the elderly and disabled, or those with windows in hard-to-reach locations, would experience a loss of utility from the removal of accessible operating cords from custom window coverings. The final rule mitigates any potential loss in utility by including several methods to make operating cords safer while still providing ease of use, including rigid cord shrouds, retractable cords, and loop cord and bead restraining devices, to assist consumers to raise and lower custom window coverings. Additionally, consumers can choose to use a remote-controlled operating system, or other tools, such as a pole, to operate the window covering.
(3) Retail prices of custom window coverings vary substantially. The least expensive units for an average size window retail for less than $40, while some more expensive units may retail for several thousand dollars. Custom window covering prices may increase to reflect the added cost of modifying or redesigning products to comply with the final rule. If the costs associated with redesigning or modifying a custom window covering to comply with the standard results in the manufacturer discontinuing that model, there would be some loss in availability of that type.
(4) Although prices of stock window coverings have increased since ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 went into effect in 2018, sales of stock products remain consistent. For custom products, which have higher prices on average, consumers very well may be willing to pay more for a safer window covering without affecting sales, similar to stock window coverings. The regulatory analysis in the final rule states that the estimated net cost increase per household to replace all custom window products in a home to be as low as $24 for less expensive products, representing only a 5% increase in cost. Such cost increase is nominal to prevent the hidden strangulation hazard to children on window coverings for the 10 years custom window coverings are likely to be used.
(e)
Other means to achieve the objective of the rule, while minimizing adverse effects on competition and manufacturing.
(1) The Commission considered alternatives to achieving the rule's objective of reducing the unreasonable risks to children of injury and death associated with operating cords on custom window coverings. For example, the Commission considered relying on compliance with the voluntary standard and education campaigns rather than issuing a mandatory rule for operating cords on custom window coverings. This is the approach CPSC has relied on to date, and it would have minimal costs; however, it is unlikely to further reduce the risk of injury from operating cords on custom window coverings.
(2) Similarly, the Commission considered narrowing the scope of the rule to address only the hazards associated with operating cords on custom vertical blinds, curtains, and drapes, because cords are not critical to the operation of these products. Narrowing the rule to these three product types would lessen the cost impact and make it unlikely that any particular product type and/or size would be eliminated, and costs would be near $0 because using plastic rods for operation is very similar to cords in cost. However, only 3 of the 36 custom product incidents (all are fatalities) were associated with vertical blinds, and there were no curtain or drape incidents where the stock/custom classification could be determined. This option would not result in an effective reduction in injuries and deaths.
(3) Other alternatives the Commission considered include: adopting the Canadian standard for window covering cords, which would increase the costs to comply with the rule with no additional benefits, and adopting a draft revised version of the voluntary standard, which the Commission staff has determined is inadequate to address the risk of injury because the revised standard would still allow accessible cords to remain available for sale to consumers.
(4) The Commission also considered setting a later effective date. Based on the record before the Commission, including the severity of the strangulation hazard to children, the advanced state of compliance with similar requirements for stock window coverings in the United States and for stock and custom window coverings in Canada, and the long pendency of this proceeding, the final rule provides an effective date that is 180 days after publication of the final rule, as proposed.
(f)
Unreasonable risk.
(1) Based on CPSC's Injury Cost Model, about 185 medically treated nonfatal injuries are predicted to have occurred annually from 2009 through 2020, involving children eight years and younger. Based on a review of National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS data) and a separate study of child strangulations, a minimum of 8.1 fatal strangulations related to window covering cords occurred per year in the United States among children under five years old from 2009-2020. Based on reviews of CPSC databases, we found reports of a total of 209 reported fatal and nonfatal strangulations on window coverings among children eight years and younger, from January 2009 through December 2021. Nearly 48 percent were fatal incident reports (100 of 209), while the remaining were near-miss nonfatal incidents.
(2) The Commission estimates that the rule would result in aggregate benefits of about $31.6 million annually due to a reduction in deaths and injuries caused by custom window coverings. Of the potential modifications
for which staff was able to estimate the potential cost, the lowest costs were about $2.18 per unit, although costs for some units are likely $0. Effective performance requirements for operating cords on window coverings are well known and already utilized for lower-priced stock window coverings. Technologies to address hazardous window covering cords are also known and utilized on stock products.
(3) The determination of whether a consumer product safety rule is reasonably necessary to reduce an unreasonable risk of injury involves balancing the degree and nature of the risk of injury addressed by the rule against the probable effect of the rule on the utility, cost, or availability of the product. The Commission does not expect the final rule to have a substantial effect on the utility or availability of custom window coverings. The rule may impact the cost of custom window coverings, but consumers already pay more for custom window coverings, and are likely willing to pay more for safer products.
(4) ANSI/WCMA-2018 eliminated the strangulation hazard on stock window coverings, which did not negatively impact sales of stock products; sales increased and cordless technologies became well-developed. The final rule will extend the requirements for stock products to custom window coverings. The Commission expects that the custom window covering market will absorb this cost, just as seen in the stock window covering market. This fact is also observed in the Canadian window covering market after Canada implemented a rule that eliminates hazardous cords on all window covering products. Staff identified no evidence from the Canadian market of a significant reduction in consumer choice as a result of their rule. Rather, the Canadian market has reacted with cost-effective substitutes and redesigned products.
(5) Weighing the possibility of increased costs for custom window coverings with the continuing deaths and injuries to young children, the Commission concludes that custom window coverings with hazardous operating cords pose an unreasonable risk of injury and death and finds that the final rule is reasonably necessary to reduce that unreasonable risk of injury and death.
(6) The Commission also finds that an effective date of 180 days after publication is reasonably necessary to address the unreasonable risk of strangulation from operating cords on custom window coverings. Section 9(g)(1) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2058(g)(1)) sets a presumptive maximum effective date of 180 days after publication of the rule. To extend this period, the Commission must find good cause that doing so is within the public interest. When balancing the risk of severe harm and death to young children over the entire service life of noncompliant window coverings, against the possibility that some styles of custom window coverings may be less available during a transition period and stock products or other custom styles might need to be used instead, the Commission finds that the public interest is better served by protecting the safety of children and families.
(g)
Public interest.
The final rule is intended to address an unreasonable risk of injury and death posed by hazardous operating cords on custom window coverings. Adherence to the requirements of the final rule will significantly reduce or eliminate a hidden hazard, strangulation deaths and injuries to children 8 years old and younger, without major disruption to industry or consumers; thus, the Commission finds that promulgation of the rule is in the public interest.
(h)
Voluntary standards.
The Commission is aware of one national voluntary standard, ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, as well as European, Australian, and Canadian standards. Among these, the Commission considers the Canadian standard to be the most stringent because it applies to all window coverings. ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 contains adequate performance requirements to address the risk of strangulation on inner cords for both stock and custom window coverings and contains adequate requirements to address the risk of injury on operating cords for stock products. The Commission also finds that custom window coverings
substantially comply with the voluntary standard. However, the Commission finds that operating cord requirements for custom window coverings in ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 are inadequate to address the risk of injury, because the voluntary standard allows accessible and hazardous operating cords to be present on custom products. Thus, the Commission finds that compliance with an existing voluntary standard is not likely to result in the elimination or adequate reduction of the risk of injury presented by custom window coverings.
(i)
Relationship of benefits to costs.
(1) The aggregate benefits of the rule are conservatively estimated to be about $23 million annually with the base value of statistical life (VSL); and the lowest cost of the rule is estimated to be about $54.4 million annually. Recent studies suggest that the VSL for children could be higher than that for adults. In other words, consumers might be willing to pay more to reduce the risk of premature death of children than to reduce the risk of premature death of adults. A review of the literature conducted for the CPSC suggested that the VSL for children could exceed that of adults by a factor of 1.2 to 3, with a midpoint of around 2 (Industrial Economics, Incorporated (IEc), 2018). “Memorandum to CPSC: Valuing Reductions in Fatal Risks to Children.” Cambridge, MA (available at:
https://www.cpsc.gov/s3fs-public/VSL_Children_Report_FINAL_20180103.pdf
). The Commission received positive comment on increasing the VSL for children by a factor of 3. Staff provided a sensitivity analysis for the final rule demonstrating how the ratio of costs and benefits change based on several variables, including a higher VSL for children. When staff increased the VSL by a factor of 3 for children (value of $31.5 million), the benefits of the rule exceed costs by approximately $14.3 million.
(2) Staff's benefits and costs analysis also highlights unquantified benefits regarding the emotional distress of caregivers that could also be reduced by the final rule. This benefit is not directly accounted for in the primary VSL estimate of $10.5 million. The value of the shock or perceived guilt related to a caregiver's inattentiveness could be significant, as it could result in large reductions to physical wellbeing or income loss.
(3) To determine how the final rule impacts consumers, staff converted costs and benefits of the rule into a calculated net cost per household, based on the data point that the average detached, single-family household has 12 window coverings. This analysis translates into a net cost of the final rule of $1.97 for metal or vinyl horizontal blinds. Using the assumption of 12 window coverings per household, this equates to a net cost of the rule (above the benefits provided) of $23.67 per household every time a household updates their custom window coverings, about once every 10 years. For metal or vinyl horizontal blinds, $23.67 is slightly more than 5 percent of the total cost of $448.32 that a household would spend to update their window coverings.
(4) We note that economies of scale associated with the voluntary standard for stock product operating cords, and the Canadian standard, may have reduced costs associated with cordless components since Commission staff developed the bases for their cost estimates as early as 2016. Additionally, custom window coverings have a longer product life, which increases the benefit of improving safety beyond the levels Commission staff determined for both stock and customer window coverings.
(5) Based on this analysis, the Commission finds that the benefits expected from the rule bear a reasonable relationship to the anticipated costs of the rule.
(j)
Least burdensome requirement that would adequately reduce the risk of injury.
(1) The Commission considered less-burdensome alternatives to the final rule, detailed in paragraph (e) of this section, but finds that none of these alternatives would adequately reduce the risk of injury.
(2) The Commission considered relying on voluntary recalls, compliance with the voluntary standard, and education campaigns, rather than issuing a mandatory standard. These alternatives would have minimal costs but would be unlikely to reduce the risk of
injury from custom window coverings that contain hazardous cords.
(3) The Commission considered issuing a standard that applies only to certain types of window coverings such as vertical blinds. This would impose lower costs on manufacturers but is unlikely to adequately reduce the risk of injury because it would only address incidents associated with those types. Based on the custom product incident data, only 8.3 percent of the incidents involved vertical blinds and 22.2 percent involved faux wood/wood blinds. The Commission considered adopting the Canadian standard for window covering cords, which would increase the costs to comply with the rule with no additional benefits and/or providing a longer effective date. And the Commission considered adopting a 2022 draft revision of the voluntary standard but finds the requirements in the standard inadequate to address the risk of injury.
§ 1260.5
Standards incorporated by reference.
(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact CPSC at: Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
The material may be obtained from the source(s) listed in the following paragraphs of this section.
(b) Window Covering Manufacturers Association, Inc., 355 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017, telephone: 212.297.2122,
https://wcmanet.com.
(1) ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, American National Standard for Safety of Corded Window Covering Products, approved January 8, 2018; IBR approved for §§ 1260.1, 1260.2, and 1260.4.
(i)
Read-only copy. https://www.wcmanet.com/pdf/WCMA-A100.1-2018_view-only_v2.pdf.
(ii)
Purchase. https://webstore.ansi.org/Standards/WCMA/ANSIWCMAA1002018.
(2) [Reserved]
§ 1260.6
Severability.
The provisions of this part are separate and severable from one another. If any provision is stayed or determined to be invalid, it is the Commission's intention that the remaining provisions shall continue in effect.
Pt. 1261

# PART 1261—SAFETY STANDARD FOR CLOTHING STORAGE UNITS
Sec.
1261.1
Scope and purpose.
1261.2
Requirements for clothing storage units.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2058; Div. BB, tit. II, sec. 201, Pub. L. 117-328, 136 Stat. 4459.

# Source:
88 FR 28408, May 4, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1261.1
Scope and purpose.
(a)
Scope and purpose.
This part, a consumer product safety standard, prescribes safety requirements for clothing storage units, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section. The requirements in this part are intended to protect children up to 72 months of age from tip-over-related death or injury.
(b)
Application.
Clothing storage unit means any free-standing furniture item manufactured in the United States or imported for use in the United States that is intended for the storage of clothing, typical of bedroom furniture. All clothing storage units that are manufactured after September 1, 2023, are subject to the requirements of this part.
§ 1261.2
Requirements for clothing storage units.
Each clothing storage unit that is subject to ASTM F2057-23,
Standard Safety Specification for Clothing Storage Units,
approved on February 1, 2023, shall comply with ASTM F2057-23. ASTM F2057-23 is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552 and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for
inspection at the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
A free, read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may also obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; phone: (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
Pt. 1262

# PART 1262—SAFETY STANDARD FOR MAGNETS
Sec.
1262.1
Scope, purpose, application, and exemptions.
1262.2
Definitions.
1262.3
Requirements.
1262.4
Test procedure for determining flux index.
1262.5
Findings.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056, 2058.

# Source:
87 FR 57789, Sept. 21, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1262.1
Scope, purpose, application, and exemptions.
(a)
Scope and purpose.
This part, a consumer product safety standard, prescribes the safety requirements for a
subject magnet product,
as defined in § 1262.2(b). These requirements are intended to reduce or eliminate an unreasonable risk of death or injury to consumers who ingest one or more
hazardous magnets
(as defined in § 1262.2(a)) from a
subject magnet product.
(b)
Application.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all
subject magnet products
that are manufactured after October 21, 2022, are subject to the requirements of this part.
(c)
Exemption.
The following consumer products are exempt from the requirements of this part: Toys that are subject to 16 CFR part 1250.
§ 1262.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this part:
(a)
Hazardous magnet
means a magnet that fits entirely within the cylinder described in 16 CFR 1501.4 and that has a flux index of 50 kG
2
mm
2
or more when tested in accordance with the method described in 1262.4.
(b)
Subject magnet product
means a consumer product that is designed, marketed, or intended to be used for entertainment, jewelry (including children's jewelry), mental stimulation, stress relief, or a combination of these purposes, and that contains one or more loose or separable magnets, but does not include products sold and/or distributed solely to school educators, researchers, professionals, and/or commercial or industrial users exclusively for educational, research, professional, commercial, and/or industrial purposes.
§ 1262.3
Requirements.
Each loose or separable magnet in a
subject magnet product
that fits entirely within the cylinder described in 16 CFR 1501.4 must have a flux index of less than 50 kG
2
mm
2
when tested in accordance with the method described in § 1262.4.
§ 1262.4
Test procedure for determining flux index.
(a) Select at least one loose or separable magnet of each shape and size in the
subject magnet product.
(b) Measure the flux index of each selected magnet in accordance with the procedure in section 8.25.1 through 8.25.3 of ASTM F963-17,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Toy Safety,
approved on May 1, 2017. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; phone: (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West
Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
§ 1262.5
Findings.
(a)
General.
Section 9(f) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2058(f)) requires the Commission to make findings concerning the following topics and to include the findings in the rule.
(b)
Degree and nature of the risk of injury.
(1) The standard is designed to reduce the risk of death and injury associated with magnet ingestions. There were an estimated 26,600 magnet ingestions were treated in hospital EDs from January 1, 2010, through December 31, 2021. There were an estimated 5,000 magnet ingestions treated in U.S. hospital EDs between January 1, 2010, and December 31, 2021, that involved in-scope identified subject magnet products, and an additional estimated 20,000 ED-treated magnet ingestions involving unidentified magnet products, which are likely to have involved subject magnet products. There were an estimated 2,500 ED-treated ingestions of magnets from identified magnet products in year 2021, higher than the majority of the preceding years, including 2018 through 2020. In this same period, January 1, 2010, through December 31, 2021, there were an estimated 286 CPSRMS-reported magnet ingestions involving identified subject magnet products and 76 CPSRMS-reported magnet ingestions involving unidentified subject magnet products. In addition, based on NEISS annual estimates from 2017-2021, ICM showed that there were an additional estimated 263 magnet ingestion injuries per year involving identified subject magnet products, which were treated in medical settings other than EDs (185 injuries treated outside of hospitals and 78 resulted in direct hospital admission).
(2) The potential injuries when a child or teen ingests one or more hazardous magnets are serious. Health threats posed by hazardous magnet ingestion include pressure necrosis, volvulus, bowel obstruction, bleeding, fistulae, ischemia, inflammation, perforation, peritonitis, sepsis, ileus, ulceration, aspiration, and death, among others. These conditions can result from magnets attracting to each other through internal body tissue, or a single magnet attracting to a ferromagnetic object. CPSC is aware of serious injuries and several fatal magnet ingestion incidents that occurred in the United States, resulting from internal interaction of magnets.
(c)
Number of consumer products subject to the rule.
The CPSC estimates that there are approximately 500,000 subject magnet products sold annually in the United States. However, to account for a range of sales estimates, staff provided information for sales ranging from 100,000 to 1 million units annually.
(d)
The need of the public for subject magnet products and the effects of the rule on their cost, availability, and utility.
(1) Consumers use subject magnet products for entertainment, mental stimulation, stress relief, and jewelry. The rule requires subject magnet products to meet performance requirements regarding size or strength, but it does not restrict the design of products. As such, subject magnet products that meet the standard can continue to serve the purpose of amusement or jewelry for consumers. Magnets that comply with the performance requirements of the rule, such as non-separable magnets, larger magnets, weaker magnets, or non-permanent magnets, may be useful for amusement or jewelry. However, it is possible that there may be some negative effect on the utility of subject magnet products if compliant products function differently or do not include certain desired characteristics.
(2) Retail prices of subject magnet products generally average under $20. CPSC has identified subject magnet products that comply with the rule, and the prices of compliant and non-compliant products are comparable.
(3) If the costs associated with redesigning or modifying subject magnet products to comply with the rule results in manufacturers discontinuing products, there may be some loss in
availability to consumers. However, this would be mitigated to the extent that compliant products meet the same consumer needs, and there are compliant products currently available for sale to consumers.
(4) Manufacturers may sell complying products to mitigate costs. In addition to products that comply with the performance requirements, there are products that are not subject to the performance requirements. Products sold and/or distributed solely to school educators, researchers, professionals, and/or commercial or industrial users exclusively for educational, research, professional, commercial, and/or industrial purposes are not subject magnet products, and firms may continue to manufacture, sell, and distribute such magnet products.
(e)
Other means to achieve the objective of the rule while minimizing adverse effects on competition, manufacturing, and commercial practices.
The Commission considered other alternatives that might reduce the impact of a rule on small businesses, including promulgating an alternative set of requirements for the flux index or size of the magnets; requiring safer packaging; requiring warnings on the packaging and promotional materials; requiring aversive agents on magnets; relying on voluntary standards; delaying the effective date; and taking no action. Although each of the alternative actions would have lower costs and less impact on small business, none is likely to significantly reduce the injuries associated with ingestion of magnets from subject magnet products.
(f)
Unreasonable risk.
(1) Incident data indicate that there were an estimated 25,000 magnet ingestions treated in U.S. hospital EDs from January 1, 2010, to December 31, 2021, which involved in-scope magnet products. Of these estimated 25,000 ED-treated magnet ingestions, an estimated 5,000 involved in-scope identified subject magnet products, and an estimated 20,000 involved “unidentified” magnet product types that, based on incident data and factors considered by the Commission, are likely to be subject magnet products. During 2017 through 2021, based on the NEISS annual estimate of about 481 magnet injuries initially treated in hospital EDs involving in-scope identified magnets there were 320 injuries that were treated and released and 161 injuries that required hospitalization. Additionally, based on estimates from the ICM, 185 injuries were treated outside of hospitals annually and another 78 injuries resulted in direct hospital admission. These incidents indicate the frequency with which children and teens ingest magnets, and the need to address the magnet ingestion hazard.
(2) The potential injuries when a person ingests one or more magnets are serious. Health threats posed by magnet ingestion include pressure necrosis, volvulus, bowel obstruction, bleeding, fistulae, ischemia, inflammation, perforation, peritonitis, sepsis, ileus, ulceration, aspiration, and death, among others. These conditions can result from magnets attracting to each other through internal body tissue, or a single magnet attracting to a ferromagnetic object. Magnet ingestion incidents commonly result in hospitalization, particularly when subject magnet products are ingested. The Commission is aware of serious injuries as well as five fatal magnet ingestion incidents that occurred in the United States between November 24, 2005, and January 5, 2021. Four of these incidents involved children 2 years old or younger, and all five victims died from injuries resulting from internal interaction of the magnets. Four of the five incidents identified the products as magnet sets, amusement products, or described them as having characteristics that are consistent with subject magnet products.
(3) CPSC's trend analysis of the incident data indicates that magnet ingestions have significantly increased in recent years. In 2014, Commission issued a rule that applied to magnet sets, which are a subset of the subject magnet products addressed in this rule. The 2014 magnet sets rule took effect in April 2015 and remained in effect until it was vacated and remanded by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit Court in November 2016.
Zen Magnets, LLC
v.
Consumer Prod. Safety Comm'n.,
841 F.3d 1141 (10th Cir. 2016). ED-treated ingestions of magnets from subject magnet products continued to rise since the 2014 magnets set rule was
vacated. A review of the annual estimates for ED-treated, magnet ingestions by year, from 2010 through 2021 showed that magnet ingestions are higher for the 2017 through 2021 period, than the previous periods, with more in-scope magnet ingestions in 2021 (2,500) than most of the preceding years, including 2018 through 2020. To assess these trends further, CPSC grouped the years in relation to the vacated 2014 magnet sets rule, using three separate periods. CPSC reviewed the magnet ingestions treated in U.S. hospital EDs for the periods 2010 through 2013 (years prior to the announcement of the 2014 magnet sets rule), 2014 through 2016 (years when the 2014 magnet sets rule was announced and in effect), and 2017 through 2021 (years after the magnet set rule was vacated). For 2010-2013, there were approximately 2,300 ED-treated magnet ingestion incidents per year; for 2014-2016, there were an approximately 1,300 ED-treated magnet ingestion incidents per year; for 2017-2021, there were approximately 2,400 ED-treated magnet ingestion incidents per year. Thus, during the period when the 2014 magnet sets rule was announced and in effect (2014-2016), magnet injury ingestion estimates are lowest by a significant margin, compared with the earlier and more recent periods. CPSRMS data also showed a similar decline in incidents for the period when the magnet sets rule was announced and in effect. CPSC's assessment of incident data, as well as other researchers' assessments of NEISS data, and national poison center data, all indicated that magnet ingestion cases significantly declined during the years when the 2014 magnet sets rule was announced and in effect, compared to the periods before and after the 2014 magnet sets rule.
(4) For these reasons, the Commission finds that the rule is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury associated with the product.
(g)
Public interest.
This rule is intended to address an unreasonable risk of injury and death posed by magnet ingestions. The Commission finds that compliance with the requirements of the rule will significantly reduce magnet ingestion deaths and injuries in the future; thus, the Commission finds that promulgation of the rule is in the public interest.
(h)
Voluntary standards.
(1) The Commission is aware of six relevant standards, four domestic and two international, that address the magnet ingestion hazard. One standard is mandatory, ASTM F963-17,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Toy Safety
(incorporated by reference at §§ 1262.4 and 1250.2 of this chapter). The other voluntary standards include: ASTM F2923-20,
Standard Specification for Consumer Product Safety for Children's Jewelry;
ASTM F2999-19,
Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Adult Jewelry;
ASTM F3458-21,
Standard Specification for Marketing, Packaging, and Labeling Adult Magnet Sets Containing Small, Loose, Powerful Magnets (with a Flux Index ≥ 50 kG
2
mm
2
)
(see § 1262.4 for the availability of ASTM standards from ASTM International); EN-71-1: 2014,
Safety of Toys; Part 1: Mechanical and Physical Properties
(available from EN European Standards; Krimicka 134, 318 00 Pilsen, Czech Republic, phone: 420 377 921 379;
www.en-standard.eu
); and ISO 8124-1: 2018,
Safety of Toys—Part 1: Safety Aspects Related to Mechanical and Physical Properties
(available from International Organization for Standardization; Chemin de Blandonnet 8, CP 401-1214 Vernier, Geneva, Switzerland; phone: 41 22 749 01 11;
www.iso.org
).
(2) The Commission finds that compliance with existing standards is not likely to result in the elimination or adequate reduction of the risk of injury associated with ingestion of subject magnet products.
(i)
Relationship of benefits to costs.
(1) CPSC estimates that aggregate annual societal costs from ingestion injuries involving subject magnet products for 2017 through 2021 totaled $51.8 million, even when ingestion injuries involving unidentified magnet products are excluded. The expected costs of the rule include the lost value experienced by consumers who would no longer be able to purchase subject magnet products with loose or separable hazardous magnets, as well as the lost profits to firms that could not produce and sell non-complying products in the future. Estimates of consumer and producer
surplus range from about $2 million to $3.5 million to about $20 million to $35 million, based on unit sales ranging from 100,000 to 1 million. If annual unit sales of non-complying subject magnet products are 500,000, expected aggregate benefits from the rule would total $51.8 million annually as noted above; costs (lost consumer and producer surplus) would range from $10 million to $17.5 million annually. Thus, the benefits of the rule would greatly exceed the costs.
(2) If unidentified magnet products involved in ingestion injuries, which are also likely to be subject magnet products, are considered as well, average annual societal costs for 2017 through 2021 would increase by $167.9 million. A sensitivity analysis shows that adding even a relatively small portion of NEISS cases involving unidentified magnet products to the base case substantially increases the estimated gross benefits of the rule. Although CPSC's analysis of the data, the trends in NEISS, CPSRMS, and poison center-reported, magnet-related incidents support the conclusion that the unidentified magnet products generally involved magnets considered within the scope of the rule, because CPSC does not know precisely how many of these products would fall within the scope of this rule, CPSC has not included them in the primary benefit analysis. Instead, CPSC includes the benefits from unidentified magnet products in this final rule's sensitivity analysis to illustrate the theoretical upper bounds of benefits from this rule. Theoretically, including 100 percent of these societal costs with those estimated for identified subject magnet products ($51.8 million) could yield average annual societal costs of magnet ingestion injuries of $219.7 million for the period 2017 through 2021.
(j)
Least burdensome requirement that would adequately reduce the risk of injury.
CPSC considered several less-burdensome alternatives to the rule.
(1) One alternative is to take no regulatory action and, instead, rely on existing standards to address the magnet ingestion hazard. This alternative would reduce the burden associated with the rule by avoiding a mandatory standard, but it is unlikely to adequately address the magnet ingestion hazard due to the limited scope and requirements of existing standards and uncertainty regarding compliance with them.
(2) Another alternative is a mandatory standard with less stringent requirements than the proposed rule, such as a higher flux index limit, or different requirements for certain shapes and sizes of magnets. This could reduce the burden associated with a rule by allowing firms to market a wider variety of products than under the rule. However, this alternative would reduce the safety benefits because allowing certain hazardous magnets in subject magnet products to remain on the market does not address the hazard such products pose.
(3) Safety messaging is another alternative to the rule. This alternative would reduce the burdens associated with the rule because it would not require modifying or discontinuing subject magnet products, and the costs of such warnings and instructional information likely would be small. However, this alternative is not likely to adequately reduce the magnet ingestion hazard. Incident data shows children commonly access ingested magnets from sources that do not include the product packaging where warnings are provided. Incident data, behavioral and developmental factors, and other information indicate that children and caregivers commonly disregard safety messaging regarding the magnet ingestion hazard. Finally, this approach has not been effective at adequately reducing the hazard, to date.
(4) Another alternative is to require special packaging to limit children's access to subject magnet products. Although this alternative would create some packaging costs, those costs likely would be lower than the costs of the rule because this alternative would allow subject magnet products to remain unchanged. However, this alternative is not likely to adequately reduce the risk of injury and death associated with magnet ingestions. Consumers are unlikely to repackage all magnets after each use, given the small size and large number of magnets in products, the potential to lose
magnets, and consumers' underappreciation of the hazard. In addition, commercially reasonable packaging requirements would only prevent young children (typically, children under 5 years old) from accessing the product, not older children, or teens, who are involved in the majority of magnet ingestion incidents.
(5) Another alternative is to require subject magnet products to be coated with aversive agents. This alternative would reduce the burden associated with the rule because it would allow firms to continue to sell subject magnet products and the costs of such coatings likely would be small. However, such requirements are not likely to adequately address the hazard because they do not address ingestions that occur when the first magnet is placed in the victim's mouth, before the aversive agent is detected, accidental ingestions, or children who are developmentally inclined to place objects in their mouths.
(6) Another alternative is to provide a later effective date for the final rule. This may reduce the burdens associated with the rule by spreading them over a longer period, but it would also delay the safety benefits of the rule.
(7) For these reasons, the Commission finds that the rule imposes the least burdensome requirement that prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury associated with magnet ingestions.
Pt. 1263

# PART 1263—SAFETY STANDARD FOR BUTTON CELL OR COIN BATTERIES AND CONSUMER PRODUCTS CONTAINING SUCH BATTERIES
Sec.
1263.1
Scope, purpose, effective date, and exemption.
1263.2
Definitions.
1263.3
Requirements for consumer products containing button cell or coin batteries.
1263.4
Requirements for labeling of button cell or coin battery packaging.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2052, 2056e.

# Source:
88 FR 65295, Sept. 21, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1263.1
Scope, purpose, effective date, and exemption.
(a)
Scope and purpose.
As required by Reese's Law (15 U.S.C 2056e, Pub. L. 117-171), this part establishes performance and labeling requirements for consumer products containing button cell or coin batteries to prevent child access to batteries during reasonably foreseeable use and misuse of the consumer product. The part is intended to eliminate or adequately reduce the risk of injury and death to children 6 years old and younger from ingesting these batteries. This part also establishes warning label requirements for packaging of consumer products containing button cell or coin batteries, these consumer products, and instructions and manuals accompanying these consumer products. Additionally, this part establishes warning label requirements for packaging of button cell or coin batteries, including button cell or coin batteries packaged separately with a consumer product.
(b)
Effective date.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the effective date of § 1263.3 is October 23, 2023. Packages of button cell or coin batteries manufactured or imported after September 21, 2024, must meet the labeling requirements for battery packaging in § 1263.4.
(c)
Exemption for toy products.
Any object designed, manufactured, or marketed as a plaything for children under 14 years of age that is in compliance with the battery accessibility and labeling requirements of 16 CFR part 1250 is exempt from the requirements of this part.
(d)
Batteries that do not present an ingestion hazard.
Button cell or coin batteries that the Commission has determined do not present an ingestion hazard are not subject to this part. These are: zinc-air button cell or coin batteries.
[88 FR 65295, Sept. 21, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 65303, Sept. 21, 2023]
§ 1263.2
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions given in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) and section 5 of Reese's Law (Notes to 15 U.S.C.
2056e), the following definitions apply for purposes of this part:
Button cell or coin battery
means:
(1) A single cell battery with a diameter greater than the height of the battery; or
(2) Any other battery, regardless of the technology used to produce an electrical charge, that is determined by the Commission to pose an ingestion hazard.
Consumer product containing button cell or coin batteries
means a consumer product containing or designed to use one or more button cell or coin batteries, regardless of whether such batteries are intended to be replaced by the consumer or are included with the product or sold separately.
Ingestion hazard
means a hazard caused by a person swallowing or inserting a button cell or coin battery into their body whereby:
(1) The button cell or coin battery can become lodged in the digestive tract or airways; and
(2) Can potentially cause death or serious injury through choking, generation of hazardous chemicals, leaking of hazardous chemicals, electrical burns, pressure necrosis, or other means.
Principal display panel
means the display panel for a retail package of button cell or coin batteries that is most likely to be displayed, shown, presented, or examined under normal or customary conditions of display for retail sale. The principal display panel is typically the front of the package.
Secondary display panel
means a display panel for a retail package of button cell or coin batteries that is opposite or next to the principal display panel. The secondary display panel is typically the rear or side panels of the package.
[88 FR 65295, Sept. 21, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 65303, Sept. 21, 2023]
§ 1263.3
Requirements for consumer products containing button cell or coin batteries.
Each consumer product containing button cell or coin batteries shall comply with ANSI/UL 4200A,
Standard for Safety for Products Incorporating Button Batteries or Coin Cell Batteries,
approved on August 30, 2023. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email:
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
A free, read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on UL's website at
https://www.ulstandards.com/IBR/logon.aspx.
You may also obtain a copy from Underwriters Laboratories, Inc (UL), 333 Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062, or through UL's website:
www.UL.com.
§ 1263.4
Requirements for labeling of button cell or coin battery packaging.
(a)
General requirements for labeling of button cell or coin battery packaging.
(1) All warning statements must be clearly visible, prominent, legible, and permanently marked.
(2) Warning statements must be in contrasting color to the background onto which the warning statement is printed.
(3) Warning statements must be in English.
(4) The safety alert symbol, an exclamation mark in a triangle, when used with the signal word, must precede the signal word. The base of the safety alert symbol must be on the same horizontal line as the base of the letters of the signal word. The height of the safety alert symbol must equal or exceed the signal word letter height.
(5) The signal word “WARNING” and safety alert symbol must be in black letters on an orange background unless this would conflict with paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section or only one color is present, in which case, the signal word and safety alert symbol must contrast to the background on which they are printed. The signal word must appear in sans serif letters in upper case only.
(6) Certain text in the message panel must be in bold and in capital letters as shown in the example warning labels (figure 1 to paragraph (b)(1) and figure 3 to paragraph (b)(2)) to get the attention of the reader.
(7) For labels that are required to be on the packaging of button cell and coin batteries, text size must be dependent on the area of the principal display panel. Text size must be determined based on table 1 to this paragraph (a)(7).
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)(7)—Letter Size for Recommended Warning Labels
[Information based on 16 CFR 1500.19(d)(7)]
Letter size measurements in inches
Display area: inches
2
0-2
+2-5
+5-10
+10-15
+15-30
+30-100
+100-400
+400
Signal word (WARNING)
3/64
1/16
3/32
7/64
1/8
5/32
1/4
1/2
Statement of Hazard
3/64
3/64
1/16
3/32
3/32
7/64
5/32
1/4
Other Text
1/32
3/64
1/16
1/16
5/64
3/32
7/64
5/32
Letter size measurements in cm (for reference only)
Display area: cm
2
0-13
+13-32
+32-65
+65-97
+97-194
+194-645
+645-2,581
+2,581
Signal word (WARNING)
0.119
0.159
0.238
0.278
0.318
0.397
0.635
1.270
Statement of Hazard
0.119
0.119
0.159
0.238
0.238
0.278
0.397
0.635
Other Text
0.079
0.119
0.159
0.159
0.198
0.238
0.278
0.397
(b)
Warning label requirements for button cell or coin battery packaging.
(1) The principal display panel of the packaging must include the warning label in figure 1 to this paragraph (b)(1). The icon must be at least 8 mm (0.3 inches) in diameter. The text must state the following warnings as shown in figure 1 to this paragraph (b)(1).

# Figure 1 to Paragraph (b)(1)
ER21SE23.005
(2) If space prohibits the full warning label shown in figure 1 to paragraph (b)(1), place the icon shown in figure 2 to this paragraph (b)(2) on the principal display panel with the text shown in figure 3 to this paragraph (b)(2) on the secondary display panel. The icon must be at least 20 mm in diameter. The text must state the following warnings as shown on figure 3 to this paragraph (b)(2).

# Figure 2 to Paragraph (b)(2)
ER21SE23.006
(3) The following safety-related statements must be addressed on the principal display panel or secondary display panel:
(i) Keep in original package until ready to use.
(ii) Immediately dispose of used batteries and keep away from children. Do NOT dispose of batteries in household trash.
(4) For button cell or coin battery packaging included separately with a consumer product, only paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section apply.
[88 FR 65303, Sept. 21, 2023]
Pt. 1270

# PART 1270—SAFETY STANDARD FOR ADULT PORTABLE BED RAILS
Sec.
1270.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
1270.2
Requirements for adult portable bed rails.
1270.3
Prohibited stockpiling.
Appendix A to Part 1270—Findings Under the Consumer Product Safety Act

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056, 15 U.S.C 2058, and 5 U.S.C. 553.

# Source:
88 FR 46979, July 21, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1270.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for adult portable bed rails manufactured after August 21, 2023.
§ 1270.2
Requirements for adult portable bed rails.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each adult portable bed rail must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F3186-17,
Standard Specification for Adult Portable Bed Rails and Related Products,
approved on August 1, 2017. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
(b) Comply with the ASTM F3186-17 standard with the following changes:
(1) In addition to complying with the definitions in section 3.1 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following definitions:
(i)
Entrapment zone.
An area, gap, or opening that can potentially capture or restrain a person's body part. Hazardous openings may not always be visible prior to testing.
(ii)
Initial assembly.
The first assembly of the product components after purchase, and prior to installing on the bed.
(iii)
Initial installation.
The first installation of the product onto a bed or mattress.
(iv)
Installation component.
Component(s) of the bed rail that is/are specifically designed to attach the bed and typically located under the mattress when in the manufacturer's recommended use position.
(2) Instead of complying with section 6.1.3 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) Permanently attached retention system components shall not be able to be removed without the use of a tool after initial assembly.
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) In addition to complying with section 6.2.1 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) The test personnel shall choose a mattress and product setting configuration that results in the most severe condition per test requirement (see paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section).
(ii) [Reserved]
(4) Instead of complying with section 6.3.3 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i)
Zone 3.
When tested in accordance with section 8.4.5 of ASTM F3186-17, the horizontal centerline on the face of the 4.7 in (120 mm) end of the test probe (see paragraph (b)(9)(i) of this section) shall be above the highest point of the uncompressed mattress.
(ii) [Reserved]
(5) Instead of complying with section 6.4.1 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) Holes or slots that extend entirely through a wall section of any rigid material less than 0.375 in (9.53 mm) thick and admit a 0.210 in (5.33 mm) diameter rod shall also admit a 0.375 in (9.53 mm) diameter rod. Holes or slots that are between 0.210 in (5.33 mm) and 0.375 in (9.53 mm) and have a wall thickness less than 0.375 in (9.53 mm) but are limited in depth to 0.375 in (9.53 mm) maximum by another rigid surface shall be permissible (see Opening Example in Figure 2 of ASTM F3186-17).
(ii) [Reserved]
(6) Instead of complying with section 6.5.1 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) Any structural components and retention system components of a product covered by this specification that require consumer assembly or adjustment, or components that may be removed by the consumer without the use of a tool, shall not be able to be misassembled when evaluated to (see paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section).
(ii) [Reserved]
(7) Instead of complying with section 6.5.2 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i)
Determining misassembled product.
A product covered by this specification shall be considered misassembled if it appears to be functional under any condition and it does not meet the requirements of sections 6.1 through 6.4 of ASTM F3186-17.
(ii) [Reserved]
(8) In addition to complying with section 7.1 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) Mattress thickness ranges used for testing shall be up to 1.5 in. (38 mm) larger or smaller than the range specified by the manufacturer. Test personnel shall choose a mattress and product setting configuration that provide the most severe condition for each test requirement in the standard.

# Note 1 to paragraph (b)(8)(i):
The technology and consumer preferences for bedding are highly variable and continuously changing. Therefore, they cannot be reasonably accounted for within this standard. Test facilities and personnel should consider current bedding trends and all types of mattresses that may foreseeably be used with the product when making a test mattress selection.
(ii) [Reserved]
(9) Instead of complying with section 7.2 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i)
Entrapment test probe.
The test probe used for the entrapment tests shall be as described in the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Guidance Document, “Hospital Bed System Dimensional and Assessment Guidance to Reduce Entrapment,” which can be found at:
www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/hospital-bed-system-dimensional-and-assessment-guidance-reduce-entrapment.
The test probe can be independently manufactured per the dimensional constraints in the guidance document or purchased from Bionix, 5154 Enterprise Blvd., Toledo, OH 43612, 800-551-7096,
www.bionix.com.
Videos illustrating use of the test probe are available at:
www.youtube.com/c/BionixLLC/search.
(ii) [Reserved]
(10) Substitute the following text as the content of Note 1 in section 8.4 of ASTM F3186-17:
(i) The tests described in this section are similar to those described in the referenced FDA Guidance Document.
(ii) [Reserved]
(11) Instead of complying with section 8.4.3.4 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) If the test probe does not pull through freely, attach the force gauge and exert a 22.5 lbf (100 N) pulling force to the 2.4 in (60 mm) cylindrical end of the entrapment test probe in the direction most likely to lead to failure of the requirement. If the 4.7 in (120 mm) end of the cone does not enter any of the openings, this space passes the test. If the 4.7 in (120 mm) end of the test probe cone does enter any of the openings, this space fails the test.
(ii) [Reserved]
(12) Instead of complying with section 8.4.4.3 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) Insert the 2.4 in (60 mm) end of the cone into the opening at the angle most likely to allow it to pass through. Insert the cone into the opening until it is in full contact with the product. The mattress shall only be compressed by the weight of the cone.
(ii) [Reserved]
(13) Instead of complying with section 8.4.4.4 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) If the test probe does not pull through freely use the force gauge to exert a 22.5 lbf (100 N) pulling force to the 2.4 in (60 mm) cylindrical end of the cone in the direction most likely to lead to failure of the requirement.
(ii) [Reserved]
(14) In addition to complying with section 8.4.4 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) If a horizontal section of the rail greater than 4.7 in exists along the bottom of the rail, that section must also meet the Zone 2 requirements regardless of the number or location of the supports. Repeat testing described in section 8.4.4.3 of ASTM F3186-17 (see paragraph (b)(12)(i) of this section) and section 8.4.4.4 of ASTM F3186-17 (see paragraph (b)(13)(i) of this section) for all applicable entrapment zones. Figure 1 to this paragraph (b)(14)(i) shows a general example of areas subject to Zone 2 requirements.
Figure 1 to paragraph (b)(14)(i)—General Example of Areas Subject to Zone 2 Requirements
ER21JY23.010
(ii) [Reserved]
(15) Instead of complying with section 8.4.5.4 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) Turn the cone until the line on the face of the 4.7 in (120 mm) end is horizontal and let the cone sink into the space by its own weight.
(A) If the line on the face of the 4.7 in (120 mm) end of the cone is above the highest point of the uncompressed mattress, as shown in Figure 2 to this paragraph (b)(15)(i), the space passes the test.
(B) If the line on the face of the 4.7 in (120 mm) end of the cone is at or below the highest point of the uncompressed mattress, as shown in Figure 2 to this paragraph (b)(15)(i), the space fails the test.
Figure 2 to paragraph (b)(15)(i)—Zone 3 Test: (a) Pass, (b) Fail
ER21JY23.011
(ii) [Reserved]
(16) In addition to complying with section 8.6.3 of ASTM F3186-17, use the following definition:
(i) The “free end” is defined as the location on the retention system that is designed to produce a counter force; it may be a single distinct point or a location on a loop.
(ii) [Reserved]
(17) Instead of complying with section 9.1.1.3 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) That the product is to be used only with the type and size of mattress and bed, including the range of thickness of mattresses, specified by the manufacturer of the product. If beds with head or footboards are allowed, the distance between the head or footboard and the placement of the product shall be indicated to be
12.5 in (318 mm).
(ii) [Reserved]
(18) Instead of complying with section 9.2.5 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) Each product's retail package and instructions shall include the warning statements in Figure 3 to this paragraph (b)(18)(i).
Figure 3 to paragraph (b)(18)(i)—Warning Statements for Product Retail Package and Instruction
ER21JY23.012
(ii) [Reserved]
(19) Instead of complying with section 9.2.7 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) At least one installation component of the product must be labeled with the entrapment warning in Figure 4 to this paragraph (b)(19)(i).
Figure 4 to paragraph (b)(19)(i)—Entrapment Warning
ER21JY23.013
(ii) [Reserved]
(20) Instead of complying with section 11.1.1.3 of ASTM F3186-17, comply with the following:
(i) In addition to contacting the manufacturer directly, consumers can report problems to the CPSC at its website SaferProducts.gov or call 1-800-638-2772.
(ii) [Reserved]
§ 1270.3
Prohibited stockpiling.
(a)
Prohibited acts.
Manufacturers and importers of adult portable bed rails (APBRs) shall not manufacture or import APBRs that do not comply with the requirements of this part between July 21, 2023, and August 21, 2023, at a rate that is greater than 105 percent of the rate at which they manufactured or imported APBRs during the base period for the manufacturer or importer.
(b)
Base period.
The base period for APBRs is the calendar month with the median manufacturing or import volume within the last 13 months immediately preceding July 21, 2023.
Pt. 1270, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1270—Findings Under the Consumer Product Safety Act
The Consumer Product Safety Act requires that the Commission, in order to issue a standard, make the following findings and include them in the rule. 15 U.S.C. 2058(f)(3). Because of this, the facts and determinations in these findings apply as of the date the rule was issued, July 21, 2023.
A. Degree and Nature of the Risk of Injury.
Between January 2003 and December 2021, there were 332 incident reports concerning adult portable bed rails (APBRs) in the Consumer Product Safety Risk Management System (CPSRMS). Of these, 310 were reports of fatalities, and 22 were nonfatal. Rail entrapment is the most prevalent hazard pattern among the incidents. There were 284 fatal incidents related to rail entrapment, accounting for more than 90 percent of all fatal incidents, and 2 nonfatal incidents. Falls were the second most common hazard pattern in the incident data, accounting for 25 incidents (8 percent of all incidents). There were 23 fatalities from falls.
B. Number of Consumer Products Subject to the Rule.
An estimated 12 firms supply 65 distinct APBR models. In 2021, the number of APBRs sold was approximately 180,000 units.
C. Need of the Public for the Products and Probable Effect on Utility, Cost, and Availability of the Product.
(1) APBRs are installed or used alongside a bed by consumers to: reduce the risk of falling from the bed; assist the consumer in repositioning in the bed; or assist the consumer in transitioning into or out of the bed. Because the rule is a performance standard that allows for the sale of compliant of APBRs, it is not expected to have any impact on the utility of the product.
(2) The cost of compliance to address entrapment hazards includes the costs manufacturers incur to redesign existing models and produce new designs to comply with the mandatory standard, the cost of producing the redesigned APBR, dead weight loss. To redesign existing and new models, manufacturers would likely incur expenditures in design labor, design production, design validation, and compliance testing. CPSC estimates these costs to be $42,239 per model in the first year. Manufacturers would also incur costs to produce the redesigned APBRs, however, these costs likely closely match existing production costs and therefore incremental cost is expected to be negligible. Dead weight loss refers to the lost producer and consumer surplus from reduced quantities of APBRs sold and consumed due to rule-induced price increases. Producer
surplus represents the foregone profit opportunities, meaning the amount that price exceeds marginal cost for those units no longer produced. Consumer surplus represents the foregone utility from consumption, meaning the amount that willingness to pay exceeds price for units no longer consumed. In the first year, producer manufacturing costs are expected to increase by $5.40 per APBR, of which $4.00 per APBR is expected to be passed on to the consumer in the form of higher prices. The resultant decrease in the number of APBRs sold and consumed is expected to generate a dead weight loss of less than $70,000 per year nationwide, so the rule is not expected to have any significant impact on the availability of APBRs.
D. Any Means to Achieve the Objective of the Rule, While Minimizing Adverse Effects on Competition and Manufacturing.
(1) The rule reduces entrapment and other hazards on APBRs while minimizing the effect on competition and manufacturing. Because the rule is based on an existing voluntary standard, and because of CPSC's outreach efforts, APBR manufacturers are generally aware of the requirements. Manufacturers can transfer some, or all, of the increased production cost to consumers through price increases. At the margins, some producers may exit the market because their increased marginal costs now exceed the increase in market price. Likewise, a very small fraction of consumers may be excluded from the market if the increased market price exceeds their personal price threshold for purchasing an APBR.
(2) The Commission considered alternatives to the rule to minimize impacts on competition and manufacturing including: take no regulatory action; continue to conduct recalls of APBRs instead of promulgating a rule; conduct an educational campaign instead of promulgating a rule; ban APBRs from the market; require enhanced safety warnings without other requirements; and implement the rule with a longer effective date. The Commission determines that none of these alternatives would adequately reduce the risk of deaths and injuries associated with APBR entrapment and other hazards presented by APBRs.
E. The rule (including its effective date) is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury.
Incident data show 284 fatal incidents related to rail entrapment between January 2003 and December 2021. The incident data show that these incidents continue to occur and are likely to increase because APBR manufacturers do not comply with the voluntary standard and the market for ABPRs is forecast to grow. The rule establishes performance requirements to address the risk of entrapments associated with ABPRs. Given the fatal and serious injuries associated with entrapments on APBRs, the Commission finds that the rule and its effective date are necessary to address the unreasonable risk of injury associated with APBRs.
F. Public Interest.
The rule addresses an unreasonable risk of entrapments and other hazards associated with APBRs. Adherence to the requirements of the rule would reduce deaths and injuries from APBR entrapment incidents; thus, the rule is in the public interest.
G. Voluntary Standards.
If a voluntary standard addressing the risk of injury has been adopted and implemented, then the Commission must find that the voluntary standard is not likely to eliminate or adequately reduce the risk of injury or substantial compliance with the voluntary standard is unlikely.
(1) The Commission determines that, absent modification, the voluntary standard is not likely to eliminate or adequately reduce the risk of injury of entrapments on ABPRs. The Commission also determines that ASTM F3186-17, with the modifications described in § 1270.2, is likely to adequately reduce the risk of injury associated with APBRs. Entrapment is the most prevalent hazard pattern among the deaths and injuries associated with APBRs. The entrapment test methods specified in the voluntary standard require products to be tested to assess the potential for entrapment in four different zones. The four entrapment zones required to be tested each address specific types of entrapment as follows: head-first entry into fully bounded openings within the structure of the bed rail; head-first entry under the rail into any opening between the mattress and the bed rail; entry of the head into a gap between the inside surface along the length of the bed rail and the compressed mattress; and neck-first entrapment between the ends of the bed rail and the compressed mattress. Most of the reported entrapment fatalities involved one of the four zones listed. In 214 out of 284 fatal incidents, the entrapment location was identified and all but six of these cases occurred in one of the four zones of entrapment tested in ASTM F3186-17.
(2) The Commission determines that modifications to the voluntary standard are needed to improve safety. Such modifications include: providing additional definitions for product assembly and installation to ensure their consistent and differentiated use throughout the standard; adding requirements for manufacturers to take into account the range of mattress thicknesses to ensure safe use of the product and provide testers with additional guidance for selecting the mattress thickness during the test setup; addressing inconsistencies with stated dimensions to ensure consistent dimensional tolerances; and providing additional clarity for Zone 1 and 2 test setup and methods, additional guidance for identifying potential
Zone 2 openings, and updated requirements for Zone 3 testing consistency.
(3) The Commission determines that substantial compliance with the voluntary standard is unlikely. CPSC conducted two rounds of market compliance testing to ASTM F3186-17: the first round in 2018 and 2019, the second round in 2021. In both rounds, no APBRs met all requirements of ASTM F3186-17. All products failed at least one critical mechanical requirement, such as retention strap performance, structural integrity, and entrapment. All products failed the labeling, warning, and instructional requirements.
H. Reasonable Relationship of Benefits to Costs.
(1) The benefits expected from the rule bear a reasonable relationship to its cost. The rule reduces the entrapment hazard and other hazards associated with APBRs, and thereby reduces the societal costs of the resulting injuries and deaths. The rule is expected to address the 92 percent of deaths caused by entrapment, resulting in potential societal benefits of $298.11 million. Benefits additionally were assessed under three scenarios derived from this expected efficacy, estimating benefits at: 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of their potential value. Under these three scenarios, the estimated quantifiable annualized benefits of the rule are approximately $200.24 million, $133.49 million, and $66.75 million, respectively. The costs associated with the rule's requirements to prevent the hazards associated with APBRs are expected to be approximately $2.01 million per year. On a per product basis, the estimated benefits of the rule are approximately $331.78, $221.19, and $110.59 per APBR when assessed at 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of their potential value, respectively, and the costs are approximately $3.34 per APBR. All these amounts are in 2021 dollars using a discount rate of 3 percent.
(2) The requirements of the rule, with modifications, are expected to address 92 percent of deaths caused by entrapment. Even under the most conservative assumption that only 25 percent of the potential benefits are achieved, every $1 in costs for the market to adopt the rule equates to approximately $33.15 in benefits to society. The estimated annualized net benefits of the rule are approximately $198.23 million, $131.48 million, and $64.74 million, at when benefits are assessed at 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of their potential value, respectively.
I. Least-Burdensome Requirement that Would Adequately Reduce the Risk of Injury
. The Commission considered six alternatives to the rule including: take no regulatory action; continue to conduct recalls of APBRs instead of promulgating a rule; conduct an educational campaign without a rule; ban APBRs from the market entirely; require enhanced safety warnings without other requirements; and implement the rule with a longer effective date. Although most of these alternatives may be a less burdensome alternative to the rule, the Commission determines that none of the alternatives would adequately reduce the risk of deaths and injuries associated with APBRs that is addressed by the rule while still preserving the product's utility to consumers.
Pt. 1272

# PART 1272—MARKING OF TOY, LOOK-ALIKE, AND IMITATION FIREARMS
Sec.
1272.1
Applicability.
1272.2
Prohibitions.
1272.3
Approved markings.
1272.4
Waiver.
1272.5
Preemption.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 5001.

# Source:
88 FR 30228, May 11, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1272.1
Applicability.
This part applies to toy, look-alike, and imitation firearms (“devices”) having the appearance, shape, and/or configuration of a firearm and produced or manufactured and entered into commerce on or after May 5, 1989, including devices modelled on real firearms manufactured, designed, and produced since 1898. This part does not apply to:
(a) Non-firing collector replica antique firearms, which look authentic and may be a scale model but are not intended as toys modelled on real firearms designed, manufactured, and produced prior to 1898;
(b) Traditional B-B, paint-ball, or pellet-firing air guns that expel a projectile through the force of compressed air, compressed gas or mechanical spring action, or any combination thereof, as described in ASTM F589-85, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Non-Powder Guns. ASTM F589-85, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Non-Powder Guns, approved June 28, 1985, is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) and at the
National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact CPSC at: Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
(c) Decorative, ornamental, and miniature objects having the appearance, shape and/or configuration of a firearm, including those intended to be displayed on a desk or worn on bracelets, necklaces, key chains, and so on, provided that the objects measure no more than thirty-eight (38) millimeters in height by seventy (70) millimeters in length, the length measurement excluding any gun stock length measurement.
§ 1272.2
Prohibitions.
No person shall manufacture, enter into commerce, ship, transport, or receive any toy, look-alike, or imitation firearm (“device”) covered by this part as set forth in § 1272.1 unless such device contains, or has affixed to it, one of the markings set forth in § 1272.3, or unless this prohibition has been waived by § 1272.4.
§ 1272.3
Approved markings.
The following markings are approved by the Consumer Product Safety Commission:
(a) A blaze orange (AMS STD 595A-17 color 12199) or orange color brighter than that specified by the AMS standard color number, solid plug permanently affixed to the muzzle end of the barrel as an integral part of the entire device and recessed no more than 6 millimeters from the muzzle end of the barrel.
(b) A blaze orange (AMS STD 595A-17 color 12199) or orange color brighter than that specified by the AMS standard color number, marking permanently affixed to the exterior surface of the barrel, covering the circumference of the barrel from the muzzle end for a depth of at least 6 millimeters.
(c) Construction of the device entirely of transparent or translucent materials which permits unmistakable observation of the device's complete contents.
(d) Coloration of the entire exterior surface of the device in white, bright red, bright orange, bright yellow, bright green, bright blue, bright pink, or bright purple, either singly or as the predominant color in combination with other colors in any pattern.
(e) SAE AMS STD 595A-17, Colors Used in Government Procurement, approved February 10, 2017, is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact CPSC at: Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the SAE website at
https://www.sae.org/standards/reading-room.
You may obtain a copy from SAE International, 400 Commonwealth Dr., Warrendale, PA 15096; telephone (888) 875-3976;
www.sae.org.
§ 1272.4
Waiver.
The prohibitions set forth in § 1272.2 may be waived for any toy, look-alike, or imitation firearm that will be used only in the theatrical, movie, or television industry. A request for such a waiver should be made, in writing, by email to
RegulatoryEnforcement@cpsc.gov
and by physical mail to U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Office of Compliance and Field Operations, Regulatory Enforcement Division, 7500 Lindbergh Dr., Unit-A, Gaithersburg,
MD 20879-5413. The request must include a sworn affidavit which states that the toy, look-alike, or imitation firearm will be used only in the theatrical, movie, or television industry. A sample of the item must be included with the physically mailed request.
§ 1272.5
Preemption.
In accordance with section 4(g) of the Federal Energy Management Improvement Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 5001(g)), the provisions of section 4(a) of that Act and the provisions of this part supersede any provision of State or local laws or ordinances which provides for markings or identification inconsistent with the provisions of section 4 of that Act or the provisions of this part.
Pt. 1301

# PART 1301—BAN OF UNSTABLE REFUSE BINS
Sec.
1301.1
Scope and application.
1301.2
Purpose.
1301.3
Findings.
1301.4
Definitions.
1301.5
Banning criteria.
1301.6
Test conditions.
1301.7
Test procedures.
1301.8
Effective date.

# Authority:
Secs. 8, 9, 86 Stat. 1215-1217, as amended, 90 Stat. 506; 15 U.S.C. 2057, 2058.

# Source:
42 FR 30300, June 13, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1301.1
Scope and application.
(a) In this part 1301 the Consumer Product Safety Commission (Commission) declares that certain unstable refuse bins are banned hazardous products under sections 8 and 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA) (15 U.S.C. 2057 and 2058).
(b) This ban applies to those refuse bins of metal construction that are being distributed in commerce on or after the effective date of this rule, which do not meet the criteria of § 1301.5 and which are produced or distributed for sale to, or for the personal use, consumption or enjoyment of consumers, in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation or otherwise. The Commission has found that (1) these refuse bins are being, or will be distributed in commerce; (2) they present an unreasonable risk of injury; and (3) no feasible consumer product safety standard under the CPSA would adequately protect the public from the unreasonable risk of injury associated with these products. The ban is applicable to those refuse bins having an internal volume one cubic yard or greater by actual measurement, which will tip over when subjected to either of the forces described in § 1301.7 and which are in commerce or being distributed in commerce on or after the effective date of the ban.
(c) When such refuse bins are the subject of rental or lease transactions between owners of refuse bins or between refuse collection agencies and persons who make such refuse bins available for use by the public, such transactions are considered to be distributions in commerce and therefore come within the scope of this ban. Refuse collection agencies or owners of refuse bins who rent or lease refuse bins to persons who make them available for use by consumers are considered to be distributors; the persons to whom refuse bins are rented or leased are not considered to be distributors.
(d) On or after the effective date of this rule it shall be unlawful to manufacture for sale, offer for sale, or distribute in commerce, the unstable refuse bins described in this rule.
(e) This rule, effective November 13, 1981, is partially revoked and therefore does not apply to front-loading, straight-sided refuse bins without trunnion bars having an internal volume capacity of 1, 1
1/2
, or 2 cubic yards, of the following external dimensions:
Internal volume
Length (inches)
Width (inches)
Height
1
High side (inches)
Low side (inches)
Weight (lbs)
1 cubic yard
70-72
21-23
29-31
29-31
313-347
1
1/2
cubic yards
70-72
29-31
33-36
29-32
346-382
2 cubic yards
70-72
32-35
39-43
31-36
409-453
1
Does not include height of wheels.
(Sec. 9(h), Pub. L. 97-35, Pub. L. 92-573, 86 Stat. 1215, 15 U.S.C. 2058(h))
[42 FR 30300, June 13, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 55925, Nov. 13, 1981]
§ 1301.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this rule is to ban those refuse bins which come under the scope of this ban because they present an unreasonable risk of injury due to tip-over that can result in serious injury or death from crushing.
§ 1301.3
Findings.
(a)
Risk of injury.
The Commission has studied 19 in-depth investigation reports of accidents associated with tip-over of unstable refuse bins. The 19 accidents, which involved 21 victims, resulted in 13 deaths. Of the 21 victims, 20 were children 10 years of age and under. Additionally, Commission records show three death certificates for victims, under 5 years of age, who were killed by refuse bins tipping over. Therefore, the Commission finds that unreasonable risks of injury or death from crushing due to tip-over are associated with certain unstable refuse bins having an internal volume one cubic yard or greater, which unreasonable risk this banning rule is designed to eliminate or reduce.
(b)
Products subject to this ban.
(1) The Commission finds that the types of products subject to this ban are those manufactured metal receptacles known in the solid waste collection trade as containers, refuse bins, buckets, boxes or hoppers, with actual internal volumes of one cubic yard or greater, used for the storage and transportation of solid waste. They are fabricated in numerous sizes and configurations for use with rear, side, front, hoist and roll-off loaded trash collection trucks and are used by private firms and public agencies.
(2) Although unstable refuse bins subject to this ban may be in various forms and shapes, the Commission's in-depth investigations into accidents associated with metal refuse containers indicate that most accidents have occurred with slant-sided metal refuse bins which are used by rear and side-loaded trucks. Therefore, the Commission bases its economic analysis of the potential impact of the ban upon the population of these bins. Certain refuse bins such as front loaded, roll-off, box and other types of large or broad based bins, because of their configuration, bulk and weight are likely to be inherently stable and are therefore not included in the population of potentially unstable bins studied in this economic analysis.
(3) The Commission estimates that there may be approximately 638,000-716,000 slant-sided, metal refuse bins with an internal volume one cubic yard or greater, which may be unstable. The population of potentially unstable bins owned by some 10,000-15,000 private solid waste collection firms in all parts of the United States and its territories is estimated to be 359,000-371,000. These figures are discussed in the Commission's
Economic Impact Statement
of April 22, 1977, which is available for review from the Commission's Office of the Secretary, Washington, D.C. 20207.
(c)
Need of the public for the product and effects on utility, cost, and availability.
(1) The public need for refuse bins is substantial since these products are used for the containment of solid waste and thus contribute to public hygiene. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimates that 135,000,000 tons of solid waste were collected in 1976 from residential, commercial and industrial sources. Approximately 101,250,000 tons (75%) were collected by private firms and the remainder by public agencies.
(2) The Commission finds that the ban will not affect the utility that consumers derive from the general use of refuse bins. The interest of the public is in continuity, availability and price of solid waste collection. The ban could result in a shift from bins which are subject to the ban to other types of storage containers. Such a shift would not affect solid waste collection and would entail a small price increase for individual consumers. To the extent that injuries and deaths associated with the use of unstable bins are reduced or eliminated as a result of the ban, the public utility derived from the use of the product will be increased.
(3)(i) The Commission finds that, based on its analysis of industrial estimates, newly produced complying refuse bins will cost approximately 1-10% more than currently produced noncomplying bins and that existing inventories of unstable bins can be modified (depending upon size) for about
$45-$75 each. This modification cost estimate includes the cost of material, shop labor, retrieval and return to service, and the substitution of one bin for another for on-site service.
(ii) The Commission estimates that the ban will not result in any significant price increases for the delivery of solid waste collection service to the general public because of the competitive structure of the solid waste collection industry.
(4) The Commission finds that the ban will have no effect on the availability of solid waste collection service to the general public. Solid waste collection haulers who use products subject to this ban can modify these refuse bins so that these products can continue to be used for solid waste collection.
(d)
Alternatives.
(1) The Commission has considered other means of achieving the objective of this ban, but has found none that it believes would have fewer adverse effects on competition or that would cause less disruption or dislocation of manufacturing, servicing or other commercial practices consistent with public health and safety. The Commission estimates that this ban may, because of capital and testing costs and maintenance capacity limitations, have an adverse effect on individual firms within some markets.
(2) The Commission estimates that the ban will not have an adverse effect on the competitive structure of the solid waste collection industry. The competitive nature of solid waste collection firms is fostered because of low starting costs, particularly if a firm is owner-operated. The rate of entry and exit into and out of the industry for small operators tends to be high relative to larger firms in the industry. The ban will most likely not increase the degree of market concentration among the larger firms nor affect the rate of entry into or exit out of the industry by relatively smaller firms.
(3) Table 3 of the Economic Impact Statement indicates that about 85 percent of the private sector trash haulers are those with a fleet size of about 10 trucks and have annual revenues under $1 million. These might be classified as small business firms. All firms in the trash hauling business would have two possible problems associated with the ban: cost and time to retrofit, and access to capital for retrofitting. The problem of raising capital to retrofit should not be a burden to small firms unless they are denied credit for factors not associated with this ban. The revised effective date from 9 to 12 months will extend both the time to retrofit and the time to search for capital sources, if necessary. We conclude that the small firms in the trash hauling industry will not experience undue hardship relative to their larger competitors.
(e)
Conclusion.
(1) The Commission finds that this rule is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce the unreasonable risks of injury associated with refuse bins, as they are defined in § 1301.4, and which fail to meet the criteria specified in § 1301.5
(2) Based on all of the above findings, the Commission finds that the issuance of this rule is in the public interest.
(3) The Commission is aware of the fact that refuse bins are used for many years before being discarded. Estimates of their useful life range from 10 to 15 years. Although other products which may be hazardous may also have a long life in the hands of individual consumers, a substantial number of unstable refuse bins remain in commerce because they are rented or leased and are constantly available for use by large numbers of consumers. The combination of the long life of refuse bins plus the fact that unstable refuse bins could remain in commerce and be available for use by many people, persuaded the Commission to make this finding that no feasible consumer product safety standard under the CPSA could adequately protect the public from the unreasonable risk of injury associated with those unstable refuse bins coming under the coverage of this ban.
§ 1301.4
Definitions.
(a) The definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) apply to this part 1301.
(b)
Refuse bin
means a metal receptacle having an internal volume one cubic yard or greater, by actual measurement, which temporarily receives and holds refuse for ultimate disposal either by unloading into the body or
loading hopper of a refuse collection vehicle or by other means.
(c)
Internal volume
means the actual volumetric capacity of the container. This may not necessarily correspond to the nominal size rating used by industry.
(d)
Tip over
means that during the application of either test force described in § 1301.7(a), the refuse bin begins to rotate forward about its forwardmost ground supports.
§ 1301.5
Banning criteria.
(a) Any refuse bin of metal construction produced or distributed, for sale to, or for the personal use, consumption or enjoyment of consumers, in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation or otherwise, which is in commerce or being distributed in commerce on or after the effective date of this ban and which has an actual internal volume one cubic yard or greater and tips over when tested under the conditions of § 1301.6 and using the procedures described in § 1301.7, is a banned hazardous product.
(b) The Commission considers a refuse bin to tip over when it begins to rotate forward about its forwardmost ground supports.
§ 1301.6
Test conditions.
(a) The refuse bin shall be empty and have its lids or covers in a position which would most adversely affect the stability of the bin when tested.
(b) The refuse bin shall be tested on a hard, flat surface. During testing, the bin shall not be tilted from level in such a way as to increase its stability.
(c) Those refuse bins equipped with casters or wheels shall have the casters or wheels positioned in a position which would most adversely affect the stability of the bin and shall be chocked to prevent movement.
(d) The stability of the refuse bin shall be tested without dependence upon non-permanent attachments or restraints such as chains or guys.
(e) For purposes of enforcement, bins will be tested by the Commission in that position which most adversely affects their stability.
§ 1301.7
Test procedures.
(a) The refuse bin shall be tested by applying forces as described in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section one after the other.
(1) A horizontal force of 70 pounds (311 N) shall be applied at a point and in a direction most likely to cause tipping, and
(2) A vertically downward force of 191 pounds (850 N) shall be applied to a point most likely to cause tipping. (See Figure 1.)
EC03OC91.047
(b) These forces shall be applied separately and the bin shall not tip over under the application of either action cited above in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2).
§ 1301.8
Effective date.
The effective date of this ban shall be June 13, 1978.
Pt. 1302

# PART 1302—BAN OF EXTREMELY FLAMMABLE CONTACT ADHESIVES
Sec.
1302.1
Scope and application.
1302.2
Purpose.
1302.3
Definitions.
1302.4
Banned hazardous products.
1302.5
Findings.
1302.6
Effective date.

# Authority:
Secs. 8, 9; 86 Stat. 1215-1217 as amended; 90 Stat. 506; (15 U.S.C. 2057, 2058).

# Source:
42 FR 63731, Dec. 19, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1302.1
Scope and application.
(a) In this part 1302 the Consumer Product Safety Commission (Commission) declares extremely flammable contact adhesives and similar liquid or semiliquid consumer products to be banned hazardous products under sections 8 and 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA) (15 U.S.C. 2057 and 2058). This ban applies to those extremely flammable contact adhesives and similar liquid or semiliquid consumer products, as defined in § 1302.3(b), which are in commerce or are being distributed in commerce on or after the effective date of this regulation, and which are consumer products (as defined in section 3(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) customarily produced or distributed for sale to, or for the personal use, consumption or enjoyment of consumers in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation or otherwise.
(b) An extremely flammable contact adhesive as defined in § 1302.3(b) is a banned hazardous product if the manufacturer, distributor, or retailer customarily produces or distributes the product for sale to, or use by consumers, or if the manufacturer, distributor, or retailer fosters or facilitates the product's sale to, or use by, consumers. For example, contact adhesives available in retail stores, such as lumber yards or hardware stores, for sale to consumers would be included in the scope of the ban even though such outlets may sell such products primarily to industrial or professional users. The manufacturer who markets an extremely flammable contact adhesive which would be subject to the ban if sold to consumers has the responsibility for determining the distribution and use patterns of its product and for taking all reasonable steps to ensure that the product is not made available for sale to consumers. The test of whether a contact adhesive is banned shall be whether the product, under any customary or reasonably foreseeable condition of distribution, or sale, is made available for purchase by consumers.
(c) Contact adhesives that are labeled as, marketed, and sold solely for industrial or professional use are not within the scope of this ban. However, merely labeling a contact adhesive for industrial or professional use only would not exclude such products from this ban. In addition, packaging a contact adhesive in a large size container would not in itself exclude the product from this ban.
(d) The Commission has found that the contact adhesives covered by this ban are being, or will be distributed in commerce; and present an unreasonable risk of injury; and that no feasible consumer product safety standard under the CPSA would adequately protect the public from the unreasonable risk of injury associated with these products.
§ 1302.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this rule is to ban extremely flammable contact adhesives which have been found to present an unreasonable risk of injury to consumers of burns resulting from explosive and flashback fire.
§ 1302.3
Definitions.
(a) The definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) apply to this part 1302.
(b) The term
extremely flammable contact adhesive and similar liquid or semiliquid consumer products
means consumer products that have each of the following product characteristics:
(1) Show a flash point at or below 20 degrees Farenheit as determined by the Tagliabue open-cup test method prescribed by 16 CFR 1500.43; and
(2) Are intended to be applied to two surfaces to be bonded together and allowed to dry partially until there is little residual tack, and adhere to themselves instantaneously when the coated surfaces are joined under low or moderate pressure; and
(3) Are composed of a high percentage (70-90 percent by weight) of solvents and a low percentage of solids (10-30 percent by weight); and
(4) Are substances that are non-aerosols and are free-flowing, having a wet viscosity within the range of 300-6,000 centipoise at 70 degrees Fahrenheit when measured by an RVF Brookfield viscometer; and
(5) Are packaged in containers of more than one-half pint.
(c) The term
flash point
means the lowest temperature corrected to a pressure of 101.3 RPa (1013 millibars) of a substance at which application of an ignition source causes the vapor above the substance to ignite under specified conditions of test. A blue light (blue halo) or other colored light which sometimes surrounds the test flame should not be confused with the true ignition of the vapors (flash point).
(d)
Initial introduction into commerce
occurs when the manufacturer ships a product covered by this regulation from a facility of the manufacturer to a distributor, retailer, or consumer.
§ 1302.4
Banned hazardous products.
Any extremely flammable contact adhesive and similar liquid or semiliquid consumer product as defined in § 1302.3 (b), which has been manufactured or initially introduced into commerce after January 17, 1978, is a banned hazardous product. In addition, any other extremely flammable contact adhesive and similar liquid or semiliquid consumer product, as defined in § 1302.3(b), no matter when manufactured or initially introduced into commerce, is a banned hazardous product after June 13, 1978.
§ 1302.5
Findings.
(a)
The degree and nature of the risk of injury.
The Commission finds that the risk of injury which this regulation is designed to eliminate or reduce is the risk of injury of burns from explosive vapor ignition and flashback fire associated with extremely flammable contact adhesives as defined in this rule.
(1)
Degree of the risk of injury presented by extremely flammable contact adhesives.
(i) In October 1976, the Commission's staff prepared a report entitled Hazard Analysis on Contact Adhesive Fires. According to the Hazard Analysis, three factors that measure burn severity are percent of body burned, days hospitalized, and whether clothing ignition occurs. Injury data sources summarized in the Hazard Analysis reveal that contact adhesive fires often result in a high percent of body burned, result in many days hospitalized, and usually involve clothing ignition burns.
(ii) The American Burn Association (ABA) participated in a special survey with the Commission to obtain an estimate of the incidence and severity of burns associated with the use of contact adhesive cements. In January 1976, the President of the ABA sent a letter to the 1,300 ABA members asking the members to record any thermal injuries or deaths that have occurred between January 1975 and March 1976 associated with contact adhesives. In November 1976, the Chairman of the ABA Committee on Burn Prevention submitted a statement to the Commission estimating that between 45 and 125 contact adhesive related injuries are treated annually in hospital emergency rooms. Although ABA members reported an annual rate of 20 severe burn injuries for the January 1975 to March 1976 period, the actual rate of severe burn injuries may be higher, since only approximately 400 hospitals, less than 10 percent of the country's short-term hospitals, are represented in ABA membership. The results of the ABA survey, as reported by the ABA Chairman, showed that the injuries treated by members resulted in an average hospitalization of 42 days, almost double the length of stay for all burn victims in special facilities for burns. According to the ABA Chairman, when a burn victim experiences such a lengthy stay, it is an indication of very severe injury
and predicts a lengthy period of recuperation and potentially permanent physical and psychological consequences.
(iii) The Hazard Analysis prepared by the Commission's staff also contains a summary of the results of the ABA survey. According to the Commission's staff, the ABA survey revealed 33 incidents with sufficient details for analysis. Nine of the victims died from their burns and 21 were hospitalized. The average body area burned was 40 percent. In addition, the victims' clothing ignited on all except three of the 33 victims.
(iv) The Hazard Analysis also contains a summary of contact adhesive related fires in the National Fire Protection Association's (NFPA) Fire Incident Data Organization (FIDO), a computerized file of fire experience that includes data collected from 1971 to 1975. The NFPA files contained reports of 38 fires from 1971 to 1975, seven of which occurred in residences. These seven fires resulted in injuries to fifteen persons and deaths to three persons.
(v) In addition to the above injury information, the Hazard Analysis also indicates that the Commission has received three death certificates specifying the involvement of an adhesive.
(vi) According to the hazard analysis, after cases from the various data sources were verified as being mutually exclusive, at least 130 persons have been injured in contact adhesive fires since 1970. Fifteen of these persons subsequently died from the injuries they sustained in these accidents.
(vii) Technical analysis of extremely flammable contact adhesives by the Commission's staff indicates that the degree of the hazard associated with these products is such that as little as one pint of extremely flammable contact adhesive may produce a substantial explosion hazard.
(2)
Nature of the risk of injury presented by flammable contact adhesives.
(i) Technical analysis of these substances by the Commission's staff indicates that extremely flammable contact adhesives have a low flash point (20 °F or below), a rapid evaporation rate (as a result of a high percentage of solvents, 70-90 percent by weight), a low percentage of solids, 10-30 percent by weight, and a low wet-viscosity (300-6,000 centipoise when measured by an RVF Brookfield viscometer).
(ii) Flash point, viscosity, low solid to high solvent ratio, evaporation rate, size of the application area, and rate of application are factors which determine the potential for creating an ignitable vapor situation. The rapid rate of evaporation of extremely volatile, low flash point solvents from extremely flammable contact adhesives is capable of creating a highly explosive atmosphere. The flammable nature of these contact adhesives is such that the vaporized solvents from these products can be ignited by a sparking electric motor or an overlooked pilot light in an area remote from the site of use. Analysis of actual injury reports by the Commission's staff reveals that extremely flammable contact adhesives have, in fact, been ignited by many ignition sources including oven and stove pilot lights, water heater and furnace pilot lights, electric space heaters (without any visible flame), sparks from a refrigerator motor and a wall receptacle, and friction. Analysis of available injury reports has shown that these ignition sources are frequently located in areas of the house remote from the room in which the contact adhesive is being used.
(iii) The possibility of ignition from a source in another room or another part of the house may well be overlooked by the public, in spite of warnings on the label of the product. Ignition of the vapors may result in a sudden, flash back fire from the source of vapor ignition to the container of adhesive with little or no warning to the consumer and with the potential for serious or fatal injury to the user or bystanders. The injury information available to the Commission shows that the vast majority of accidents occur while the product is being used for its intended purpose. The potential for serious injury, therefore, appears to be present during normal use of the product.
(iv) Although the Commission has in the past required the extremely flammable contact adhesives now subject to this ban to bear minimum cautionary labeling for the hazard caused by the extreme flammability of the mixture,
the Commission finds that this cautionary labeling is inadequate to protect the public. An analysis prepared by the Commission staff of the available injury data indicates that in spite of the cautionary labeling, accidents have continued to occur, inflicting serious injuries in much the same manner as those accidents that occurred prior to the issuance of the 1970 labeling regulation. The cautionary labeling presently required could be revised to include more explicit and graphic warnings. However, as a result of the degree and nature of the risk of injury presented by the product, this labeling would also provide inadequate protection to the public. The degree and nature of the risk of injury is such that a bystander or visitor could present an ignition source resulting in an accident. Since the bystander or visitor would not normally have an opportunity to read the warning label on the product, additional labeling would not benefit these potential victims. The possibility of ignition from a source in another room or another part of the house may well be overlooked by the public, in spite of warnings on the label of the product.
(b)
Products subject to this ban.
(1) The products banned by this rule are listed in § 1302.1.
(2) The Commission finds that the types of products subject to this ban are those contact adhesives that are extremely flammable and are packaged in containers of more than one-half pint. The average annual consumption of all types of contact adhesives in the United States is estimated at approximately 25 million gallons. Of this, it is estimated that 4-5 million gallons are sold in containers of 1 gallon or less, the sizes consumers generally buy. Professional users are estimated to purchase about half of the contact adhesives in this size range with most purchases probably of gallon containers. Therefore, consumers probably purchase 2-2.5 million gallon of all contact adhesives, most of which is estimated to be in quart containers, and a smaller amount in containers of one pint or less.
(3) In early 1976, contact adhesive sales were estimated as 80 percent extremely flammable, 10 percent chlorinated-solvent based, and 10 percent water-based. Since that time, a flammable petroleum solvent based contact adhesive has been developed and there has been a trend away from extremely flammable to flammable and nonflammable for consumer use. Although this trend is evident, reliable estimates of current market shares are not available. A rough estimate would be that perhaps 50 percent of contact adhesives in container sizes of more than one-half pint to 1 gallon are extremely flammable.
(c) Need of the public for the products and effects of the rule on their utility, cost, and availability.
(1)
The need for contact adhesives.
Contact adhesives are used primarily for bonding plastic laminates to counter and table tops, for applying tile board to walls, and for applying some types of flooring. Other uses include bonding metals, wood, leather, linoleum, tiles, rubber and plastics. Contact adhesives may also be used in furniture construction and repairs. There are contact adhesives available other than the extremely flammable type and other alternatives to contact adhesives that consumers can use.
(2)
Probable effects of the ban on the utility of contact adhesives.
Of the three general types of contact adhesive other than extremely flammable contact adhesives, flammable and non-flammable (chlorinated) contact adhesives have about the same general performance characteristics as extremely flammable contact adhesives. Therefore, because these two products are available to the public, the Commission believes the ban will have little impact on the utility of contact adhesives. In terms of performance characteristics, there is little difference between flammable and extremely flammable contact adhesives. Although the extremely flammable product requires approximately 10 minutes of drying time before the item can be bonded, the flammable product requires about 20 minutes. This difference in time is not likely to be significant for most consumers who do ordinary home improvement or repair work. The performance characteristics of non-flammable chlorinated based contact adhesives are similar to those of the extremely flammable type
for most applications. Non-flammable chlorinated based contact adhesives may be unacceptable for applications involving leather. Water based contact adhesives may not be as satisfactory, in terms of performance characteristics, as the other contact adhesives. The drying time for water-based contact adhesives varies with humidity. Although manufacturers of water-based neoprene contact adhesives claim that their products will dry in 30 minutes, for most of the country a drying time from one to four hours is probably more realistic. It is possible that the adhesive will never dry in some areas of the country with very high humidity. The time needed for the adhesive to adhere after joining (open time) will also vary with the humidity. Water-based acrylic contact adhesives are similar to neoprene type adhesives in terms of the effect of humidity on drying time. The neoprene and acrylic based adhesives are not completely satisfactory for binding some substances with non-porous surfaces, such as metals. In addition, the water in these adhesives might have an adverse effect on leather. Neoprene water-based adhesives may become unstable if frozen and thawed several times. This may occur during shipping or storage in some areas of the country during deaths associated with the extreme winter. To the extent that injuries and flammable contact adhesives are reduced or eliminated as a result of the ban, the utility of contact adhesives will be increased.
(3)
Probable effects of the ban upon the cost of contact adhesives.
For gallon containers, the Commission estimates that the contact adhesives available as substitutes for the extremely flammable type may cost in the range of $1-$6 more than the extremely flammable type. Although a gallon of extremely flammable contact adhesive may cost $7.50-$10.50, a gallon of flammable contact adhesive may cost from $8-$11, a gallon of nonflammable chlorinated base contact adhesive may cost from $12-$15, a gallon of water-based neoprene contact adhesive may cost from $11-$16, and a gallon of water-based acrylic contact adhesive may cost from $10-$15.
(4)
Probable effect of the ban on the availability of contact adhesives to meet the need of the public.
The Commission estimates that the ban will not have any effect on the availability or use of contact adhesives. Manufacturers are most likely to switch production to flammable petroleum-based and to 1,1,1,-trichloroethane (1,1,1,-TCE) based or water-based contact adhesives.
(d)
Alternatives.
(1) The Commission has considered other means of achieving the objective of this rule, such as labeling, but has found none that would achieve the objective of this ban, consistent with the public health and safety.
(2) The Commission believes that any adverse effects of the ban should be minimal and would be expected to be confined to some shift in distribution patterns to accommodate professional users, including methods of distinguishing between professional users and consumers.
(3) The Commission finds that competition should not be significantly affected by this rule.
(e)
Conclusion.
The Commission finds that this rule, including its effective date, is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce the unreasonable risk of injury of burns from explosive vapor ignition and flashback fire that is associated with the banned products described in § 1302.3(b). The Commission also finds that issuance of the rule is in the public interest. The Commission also finds that no feasible consumer product safety standard under the act would adequately protect the public from the unreasonable risk of injury associated with the product.
§ 1302.6
Effective date.
This rule becomes effective January 18, 1978.
Pt. 1303

# PART 1303—BAN OF LEAD-CONTAINING PAINT AND CERTAIN CONSUMER PRODUCTS BEARING LEAD-CONTAINING PAINT
Sec.
1303.1
Scope and application.
1303.2
Definitions.
1303.3
Exemptions.
1303.4
Banned hazardous products.
1303.5
Findings.

# Authority:
Secs. 8, 9, 86 Stat. 1215-1217, as amended 90 Stat. 506, 122 Stat. 3016, (15 U.S.C. 2057, 2058), Sec. 101, 122 Stat. 3016.

# Source:
42 FR 44199, Sept. 1, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1303.1
Scope and application.
(a) In this part 1303, the Consumer Product Safety Commission declares that paint and similar surface-coating materials for consumer use that contain lead or lead compounds and in which the lead content (calculated as lead metal) is in excess of 0.06 percent (0.06 percent is reduced to 0.009 percent effective August 14, 2009 as mandated by Congress in section 101(f) of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, Pub. L. 110-314) of the weight of the total nonvolatile content of the paint or the weight of the dried paint film (which paint and similar surface-coating materials are referred to hereafter as “lead-containing paint”) are banned hazardous products under sections 8 and 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA), 15 U.S.C. 2057, 2058. The following consumer products are also declared to be banned hazardous products:
(1) Toys and other articles intended for use by children that bear “lead-containing paint”.
(2) Furniture articles for consumer use that bear “lead-containing paint”.
(b) This ban applies to the products in the categories described in paragraph (a) of this section that are manufactured after February 27, 1978, and which are “consumer products” as that term is defined in section 3(a)(1) of the Consumer Product Safety Act. Accordingly, those of the products described above that are customarily produced or distributed for sale to or for use, consumption, or enjoyment of consumers in or around a household, in schools, in recreation, or otherwise are covered by the regulation. Paints and coatings for motor vehicles and boats are not included within the scope of the ban because they are outside the statutory definition of “consumer product”. In addition to those products which are sold directly to consumers, the ban applies to products which are used or enjoyed by consumers after sale, such as paints used in residences, schools, hospitals, parks, playgrounds, and public buildings or other areas where consumers will have direct access to the painted surface.
(c) The Commission has issued the ban because it has found that there is an unreasonable risk of lead poisoning in children associated with lead content of over 0.06 percent in paints and coatings to which children have access and that no feasible consumer product safety standard under the CPSA would adequately protect the public from this risk. The 0.06 percent is reduced to 0.009 percent effective August 14, 2009 as mandated by Congress in section 101(f) of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, Public Law 110-314.
(d) Any ban or rule promulgated under 16 CFR 1303.1 shall be considered a regulation of the Commission promulgated under or for the enforcement of section 2(q) of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (15 U.S.C. 1261(q)).
[42 FR 44199, Sept. 1, 1977, as amended at 73 FR 77493, Dec. 19, 2008]
§ 1303.2
Definitions.
(a) The definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) shall apply to this part 1303.
(b) For purposes of this part:
(1)
Paint and other similar surface-coating materials
means a fluid, semi-fluid, or other material, with or without a suspension of finely divided coloring matter, which changes to a solid film when a thin layer is applied to a metal, wood, stone, paper, leather, cloth, plastic, or other surface. This term does not include printing inks or those materials which actually become a part of the substrate, such as the pigment in a plastic article, or those materials which are actually bonded to the substrate, such as by electroplating or ceramic glazing.
(2)
Lead-containing paint
means paint or other similar surface coating materials containing lead or lead compounds and in which the lead content (calculated as lead metal) is in excess of 0.06 percent (0.06 percent is reduced to 0.009 percent effective August 14, 2009) by weight of the total nonvolatile content of the paint or the weight of the dried paint film.
(3)
Toys and other articles intended for use by children
means those toys and other articles which are intended to be entrusted to or for use by children. This would not include all articles to which children might have access simply because they are present in a household.
(4)
Furniture article
means those movable articles: (i) Used to support people or things; (ii) other functional or decorative furniture articles, including, but not limited to, products such as beds, bookcases, chairs, chests, tables, dressers, desks, pianos, console televisions, and sofas. The term “furniture article” does not include appliances, such as ranges, refrigerators, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, air conditioners, humidifiers, and dehumidifiers; fixtures such as bathroom fixtures, built-in cabinets, chandeliers, windows, and doors; or household items such as window shades, venetian blinds, or wall hangings and draperies.
[42 FR 44199, Sept. 1, 1977, as amended at 73 FR 77493, Dec. 19, 2008]
§ 1303.3
Exemptions.
(a) The categories of products listed in paragraph (b) of this section are exempted from the scope of the ban established by this part 1303, provided:
(1) That these products bear on the main panel of their label, in addition to any labeling that may be otherwise required, the signal word “Warning” (unless some other signal word is required) and the following statement: “Contains Lead. Dried Film of This Paint May Be Harmful If Eaten or Chewed.”
(2)(i) That these products also bear on their label the following additional statement or its practical equivalent:
Do not apply on toys and other children's articles, furniture, or interior surfaces of any dwelling or facility which may be occupied or used by children.
Do not apply on exterior surfaces of dwelling units, such as window sills, porches, stairs, or railings, to which children may be commonly exposed.
Keep out of reach of children.
(ii) If the statement required by the preceding paragraph (a)(2)(i) is placed on a label panel other than the main panel, the label statement required to be on the main panel by paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall contain the following additional statement: “See other cautions on ____ (insert ‘side’ or ‘back’, as appropriate) panel.”
(3) That the placement, conspicuousness, and contrast of the label statements required by this section (a) comply with the requirements of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act at 16 CFR 1500.121.
(b) The following products are exempt from the scope of the ban established by this part 1303, provided they comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Agricultural and industrial equipment refinish coatings.
(2) Industrial (and commercial) building and equipment maintenance coatings, including traffic and safety marking coatings.
(3) Graphic art coatings (i.e., products marketed solely for application on billboards, road signs, and similar uses and for identification marking in industrial buildings).
(4) Touchup coatings for agricultural equipment, lawn and garden equipment, and appliances.
(5) Catalyzed coatings marketed solely for use on radio-controlled model powered aircraft.
(c) The following products are exempt from the scope of the ban established by part 1303 (no cautionary labeling is required):
(1) Mirrors which are part of furniture articles to the extent that they bear lead-containing backing paint.
(2) Artists' paints and related materials.
(3) Metal furniture articles (but not metal children's furniture) bearing factory-applied (lead) coatings.
[42 FR 44199, Sept. 1, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 8515, Mar. 2, 1978]
§ 1303.4
Banned hazardous products.
The following consumer products, manufactured after February 27, 1978, unless exempted by § 1303.3, are banned hazardous products (see definitions in § 1303.2):
(a) Paint and other similar surface-coating materials which are “lead-containing paint.”
(b) Toys and other articles intended for use by children that bear “lead-containing paint.”
(c) Furniture articles that bear “lead-containing paint.”
§ 1303.5
Findings.
(a)
The degree and nature of the risk of injury.
(1) The Commission finds that the risk of injury which this regulation is designed to eliminate or reduce is lead poisoning in children. The adverse effects of this poisoning in children can cause a range of disorders such as hyperactivity, slowed learning ability, withdrawal, blindness, and even death. The final Environmental Impact Statement on Lead in Paint which is on file with the President's Council on Environmental Quality (and available for inspection in the Office of the Secretary) contains in appendix A a detailed discussion of the health effects of lead in paint. These effects will only be summarized here.
(2) Lead is a cumulative toxic heavy metal which, in humans, exerts its effects on the renal, hematopoietic, and nervous systems. Newer concepts indicate that there are three stages to childhood lead poisoning. The adverse health effects in the first stage are not clinically present but metabolic changes can be observed. During the second stage or symptomatic stage such symptoms as loss of appetite, vomiting, apathy, drowsiness, and inability to coordinate voluntary muscle movements occur. The after effects of this stage include seizure disorders as well as various behavioral and functional disorders which are often included under the heading of minimal brain dysfunction. Studies suggest that this syndrome may include hyperactivity, impulsive behavior, prolonged reaction time, perceptual disorders and slowed learning ability. The adverse health effects of the third stage may be permanent and can include blindness, mental retardation, behavior disorders, and death.
(3) The Commission notes that children with pica are of special concern with regard to lead poisoning. Pica, the repetitive ingestion of nonfood substances, occurs in 50 percent of children between the ages of one and three, and studies indicate that at this age lead is absorbed more rapidly than lead is absorbed in adults. Pica for paint is believed to be episodic and can occur 2 to 3 times a week.
(4) The Commission also notes that there are no reports of injuries caused by lead paint poisoning in the Commission's National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) data, which reflect hospital emergency room treatment. Lead paint poisonings result from a chronic hazard rather than from an acute hazard of the type generally treated in emergency rooms; and NEISS reporting, therefore, does not reflect this type of chronic hazard or injuries.
(5) Former U.S. Surgeon-General Jesse L. Steinfeld, however, estimated in 1971 that 400,000 pre-school American children have elevated body lead burdens. The National Bureau of Standards in 1972 estimated that 600,000 young children have unduly high lead blood content.
(b)
Products subject to this ban.
(1) The products banned by this rule are listed in § 1303.4.
(2) The term
paint
comprises a variety of coating materials such as interior and exterior household paints, varnishes, lacquers, stains, enamels, primers, and similar coatings formulated for use on various surfaces. Based on 1976 data, the Commission estimates that over 400 million gallons of paint a year valued at approximately $2.5 billion could potentially be subject to this rule.
(3) All products commonly known as toys and other articles intended for the use of children are subject to this rule. The categories of products within this classification are numerous and include items and equipment for play, amusement, education, physical fitness, and care of children. Retail sales in 1976 of products considered to be toys or other articles intended for use of children are estimated at around $4 billion.
(4) For the purposes of this rule, furniture articles are certain movable articles used to support people or things or other functional or decorative furniture articles such as couches, beds, tables, chairs, chests, and the like. Appliances and similar equipment, household fixtures, and certain other household items such as window shades, blinds, wall hangings, and the like are
not included within the definition of furniture. The regulation applies to furniture for use in households, schools, in recreation, or otherwise. In 1972, the value of shipments of items of furniture such as those named above was as follows: wood household furniture $2,716 million; metal household furniture $859 million; wood television and radio cabinets $293 million; and $190 million for other household furniture made of plastic, reed and rattan. (Not included in the above are some $2 billion worth of upholstered furniture and $300 million in convertible sofas, chair beds and studio couches.)
(c)
Need of the public for the products and effects of the rule on their utility, cost, and availability.
(1) The public need for paints of various types and for furniture and other articles is substantial and well established. The Commission finds that the need of the public for paint containing more than 0.06 percent lead or for the affected products that are coated with materials containing more than 0.06 percent lead is limited. The Commission has determined that there are products containing more than the 0.06 percent level of lead which meet a public need and for which substitutes are either not available or are not sufficiently effective and to which access by children to the coatings or the surfaces to which they are applied is unlikely. Accordingly, these products have been specifically exempted from the scope of the regulation in § 1303.3.
(2) The Commission finds that the effects of this rule on the cost, utility, and availability of paints and painted articles will be small. The Commission notes that over 95 percent of latex-based and nearly 70 percent of oil-based paints have lead levels at or below the level set by part 1303.
(i)
Costs.
The Commission estimates that the added costs to the consumer for paints affected by this rule will not exceed 5 to 10 cents per gallon. Costs to consumers for furniture and for toys and other articles intended for the use of children are not expected to increase as the result of compliance with the regulation.
(ii)
Utility.
The Commission finds that for water-based or latex paints and coatings subject to this rule, reducing the amount of allowable lead to 0.06 percent will not have adverse effects on their utility. For certain solvent-thinned coatings, however, lead driers will have to be replaced by non-lead driers such as zirconium to comply with the 0.06 percent level (Driers are not used in latex paints). An impact on the paint industry may result because current nonlead driers may not dry satisfactorily in low temperatures or high humidity conditions, and so the painting industry in some areas at certain times of the year may suffer a reduction of effective painting time.
(iii)
Availability.
Substitutes at comparable prices are available for paints and for products banned by this rule. The Commission believes that the reduction of lead to a level of 0.06 percent will not affect the availabilty of water-based or latex paints. Sales of such coatings currently exceed sales of solvent-based coatings, and because of the drying problem mentioned above, the trend toward increased use of water-based paints may be accelerated somewhat by the effects of the ban.
(d)
Alternatives.
(1) The Commission has considered other means of achieving the objective of this rule, but has found none that would cause less disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices, consistent with public health and safety.
(2) The Commission estimates that this ban may, because of testing costs and the necessity for improved housekeeping practices in the manufacture of paint and similar surface-coating materials to prevent lead contaimination, have some relatively minor adverse effect on individual firms within some markets.
(3) The Commission, however, finds that competition will not be adversely affected by this rule. Although costs of reformulation and testing may be relatively higher for small manufacturers than large manufacturers, these costs are not so onerous as to lead to greater concentration in the industry. The period of time before the effective date is sufficient to minimize problems of compliance with the rule.
(4) The reduction of the permissible level of lead in paint will affect paint
manufacturers, raw materials suppliers, professional and non-professional painters, and manufacturers of furniture and children's articles. For those producers of paint which are already subject to the regulations under the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (FHSA), the impact of this CPSA ban will involve only a change to non-lead driers since lead pigments are precluded from practical use under the 0.5 percent lead restriction now in effect under the FHSA (16 CFR 1500.17(a)(6)). The manufacturers of some painted furniture who were not affected by the 0.5 percent limit under the FHSA may now be, if they use lead pigments or driers. Producers of children's articles who were subject to the 0.5 percent FHSA limit will have to ensure that the paint they use conforms to the 0.06 percent level.
(e)
Conclusion.
The Commission finds that this rule, including its effective date, is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce the unreasonable risk of lead poisoning of young children that is associated with the banned products which are described in § 1303.4 and that promulgation of the rule is in the public interest.
Pt. 1304

# PART 1304—BAN OF CONSUMER PATCHING COMPOUNDS CONTAINING RESPIRABLE FREE-FORM ASBESTOS
Sec.
1304.1
Scope and application.
1304.2
Purpose.
1304.3
Definitions.
1304.4
Consumer patching compounds as banned hazardous products.
1304.5
Findings.

# Authority:
Secs. 8, 9, 86 Stat. 1215-1217, as amended 90 Stat. 506, 15 U.S.C. 2057, 2058.

# Source:
42 FR 63362, Dec. 15, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1304.1
Scope and application.
(a) In this part 1304 the Consumer Product Safety Commission declares that consumer patching compounds containing intentionally-added respirable freeform asbestos in such a manner that the asbestos fibers can become airborne under reasonably foreseeable conditions of use, are banned hazardous products under sections 8 and 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA) (15 U.S.C. 2057 and 2058). This ban applies to patching compounds which are (1) used to cover, seal or mask cracks, joints, holes and similar openings in the trim, walls, ceiling, etc. of building interiors, which after drying are sanded to a smooth finish and (2) are produced and distributed for sale to or for the personal use, consumption or enjoyment of a consumer in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation or otherwise.
(b) The Commission has found that (1) these patching compounds are being or will be distributed in commerce; (2) that they present an unreasonable risk of injury; and (3) that no feasible consumer product safety standard under the CPSA would adequately protect the public from the unreasonable risk of injury associated with these products. This rule applies to the banned hazardous products defined in § 1304.3 and described further in § 1304.4.
(c) Only consumer products are subject to this regulation. Patching compounds which are consumer products include those which a consumer can purchase. Merely labeling a patching compound for industrial use would not exclude such articles from the ban. If the sale or use of the product by consumers is facilitated, it is subject to the ban. Patching compounds which are labeled as, marketed, and sold solely for industrial use in non-consumer environments are not subject to the ban. In addition to those products which can be sold directly to consumers, the ban applies to patching compounds containing respirable free-form asbestos which are used in residences, schools, hospitals, public buildings or other areas where consumers have customary access.
§ 1304.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this rule is to ban consumer patching compounds containing intentionally added respirable, free-form asbestos. These products present an unreasonable risk of injury due to inhalation of fibers which increase the risk of developing cancer,
including lung cancer and mesothelioma, diseases which have been demonstrated to be caused by exposure to asbestos fibers.
§ 1304.3
Definitions.
(a) The definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) apply to this part 1304.
(b)
Asbestos
means a group of mineral fibers composed of hydrated silicates, oxygen, hydrogen, and other elements such as sodium, iron, magnesium, and calcium in diverse combinations and are: Amosite, chrysotile, crocidolite, anthophyllite asbestos, actinolite asbestos, and tremolite asbestos.
(c)
Free-form asbestos
is that which is not bound, or otherwise “locked-in” to a product by resins or other bonding agents, or which can readily become airborne with any reasonably foreseeable use.
(d)
Patching compounds
are mixtures of talc, pigments, clays, casein, ground marble, mica or other similar materials and a binding material such as asbestos which are sold in a dry form ready to be mixed with water, or such combinations in ready-mix paste form.
(e)
Consumer patching compounds
are those that are customarily produced or distributed for sale to or for the personal use, consumption or enjoyment of consumers in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation or otherwise. The Commission considers that patching compounds for application in these consumer environments are either distributed for sale to or are for the personal use or enjoyment of consumers.
(f)
Intentionally-added asbestos
is asbestos which is (1) added deliberately as an ingredient intended to impart specific characteristics; or, (2) contained in the final product as the result of knowingly using a raw material containing asbestos. Whenever a manufacturer finds out that the finished product contains asbestos, the manufacturer will be considered as knowingly using a raw material containing asbestos, unless the manufacturer takes steps to reduce the asbestos to the maximum extent feasible.
(g)
Initial introduction into commerce
occurs when the manufacturer ships a product covered by this regulation from a facility of the manufacturer to a distributor, retailer, or user.
§ 1304.4
Consumer patching compounds as banned hazardous products.
On the basis that airborne asbestos fibers present the hazards of cancer, including lung cancer and mesothelioma to the public, consumer patching compounds containing intentionally-added, respirable free-form asbestos, which have been manufactured or initially introduced into commerce after January 16, 1978, are banned hazardous products. In addition, all other consumer patching compounds containing intentionally-added, respirable free-form asbestos, no matter when manufactured or initially introduced into commerce, are banned hazardous products after June 11, 1978.
§ 1304.5
Findings.
(a)
The degree and nature of the risk of injury.
The Commission finds that the risk of injury which this regulation is designed to eliminate or reduce is from cancer, including lung cancer and mesothelioma. In assessing the degree and nature of the risk of injury to consumers, the Commission has reviewed experimental data and human experience information. The Commission noted that in the scientific literature, there is general agreement that there is no known threshold level below which exposure to respirable free-form asbestos would be considered safe. Further, on the basis of such scientific opinion, it appears to the Commission that children are particularly vulnerable to carcinogens because of their longer potential lifetime and their rapid rate of growth. In areas of the country where asbestos may not be prevalent in the environment, the major risk of exposure for children and others may occur in the household. In areas of the country where more asbestos fibers are present in the environment, the public is exposed to additional risks from the presence of asbestos fibers in households and other consumer environments. The Commission concluded on the basis of these factors that consumer patching compounds
containing respirable free-form asbestos present an unreasonable risk of injury to the public. In addition, a risk assessment was made. For purposes of this assessment, the Commission considered the use of patching compounds by the consumer, for six hours a day four times a year, to be a high yet reasonably foreseeable exposure. The increased risk of death from respiratory cancer induced by this exposure is estimated at between 10 and 2,000 per million. For five years of exposure at these levels, the risk increases geometrically and is estimated at between 1,000 and 12,000 per million. The lower estimate of 10 per million is closer to the actual risk for a one-year exposure. Nevertheless, in view of the seriousness of the injury and the cumulative effects of asbestos exposure, even this minimum figure represents an unacceptable risk. The Commission believes that reducing exposure to respirable free-form asbestos in the home represents a substantial decrease in risk to consumers, since, for many people, the major exposure to inhalable asbestos is in the home.
(b)
Products subject to the ban.
Consumer patching compounds as defined in § 1034.3 (d), (e), (f) includes such products as drywall spackling compounds and tape joint compounds (commonly known as “joint cement” or “tape joint mud”). The Commission estimates annual shipments of patching compounds subject to the ban at approximately 30-50 million “units,” or individual packages, of various sizes from 0.5 to 25 pounds (dry) or 0.5 to 5 gallons (wet). The Commission believes that about half the patching compounds sold in 1977, and intended for sale to or use or enjoyment by consumers, were formulated with asbestos. Many others containing significant levels of asbestos contamination will also be affected by the ban.
(c)
Need of the public for the products and effects of the rule on their utility, cost and availability.
Patching compounds, though used primarily by commercial construction workers, are also used by consumers, and are used for the patching and sealing of cracks and joints in and around the household and in other consumer environments either by consumers or professional applicators. The compounds are used to cover areas on gypsum drywall which might otherwise be aesthetically undesirable or which might lead to structural damage, energy loss or lower property value. The asbestos in these compounds acts as a structural reinforcing agent which helps to reduce cracking and shrinkage of the compound over time, and which renders the compound more pliable or “workable” upon application.
(1)
Utility.
The elimination of asbestos from these products may result in the increased use or new development of substitutes which have similar properties to those of asbestos, or which impart similar qualities to the product. In current reformulations, asbestos is replaced by a combination of substances, of which the most common is attapulgite, a fibrous clay. Some non-asbestos formulations are reportedly not as effective as those containing asbestos in controlling shrinkage and cracking over time. The workability of some compounds may be diminished as well. This may adversely affect the utility derived from the product by consumers, and by professional contractors until such time as improved formulations are developed and available to end-users.
(2)
Cost.
Asbestos-free patching compound formulations may require more time to use. This would tend to increase the direct labor costs of residential and other construction and renovation. The expected increase is between 10 and 25 percent. The Commission estimates that the annual labor cost of drywall finishing in these consumer environments is on the order of $1 billion. The use of nonasbestos patching compound formulations in all applications may increase this cost by $50-$125 million, assuming that roughly half the current labor costs (i.e., that portion now associated with the use of asbestos formulations) are affected by the 10-25 percent increase. The burden of this cost is expected to fall directly on owners of existing homes who may engage in some renovation, and on purchasers of newly-renovated or newly-constructed homes. These increased costs are expected to diminish over time as formulations improve and as applicators become more accustomed to using
nonasbestos formulations. The use of asbestos substitutes may also lead to cost increases in the manufacture of patching compounds. The Commission estimates this cost, which may vary widely from firm to firm, at an average of 5-15 percent. This is made up primarily of increased costs of raw materials and of formulation research and development. It is expected that the price of many patching compounds may rise as a result. Producers, distributors, and retailers of patching compounds may also have to incur costs associated with the disposal of products in inventory. The Commission estimates that the wholesale value of manufacturers' and distributors' inventories at the time the ban becomes effective will be approximately $15 million. These costs may be reflected in the prices charged for asbestos-free patching compound formulations, and in the prices of other drywall and paint products. It appears that, because of competitive pressure from asbestos-containing compounds, producers of asbestos-free formulations have not yet passed on to purchasers their increased costs. If the increased production costs of asbestos-free formulations can be passed on completely as a result of the ban, the total annual price effect for the year following the issuance of the ban may be $10-$60 million. The magnitude of this effect may be reduced significantly in successive years following the issuance of the ban as producers' development costs are amortized, as raw materials become more widely available, and as price competition is strengthened because of market pressure and economies of sale associated with production.
(3)
Availability.
The supply of asbestos substitutes, particularly attapulgite clay and relatively uncontaminated talc, for use in the manufacture of patching compounds may be insufficient to meet the short-run demand which is expected to be stimulated by the promulgation of the ban. Further, many small producers probably lack the technical capability to reformulate their products, and may be forced to cease production, at least until formulations of satisfactory cost and performance are developed. This may affect some professional contractors. In the short run, consumers may be indirectly affected by delays in drywall finishing and building completion.
(d)
Any means of achieving the objective of the ban while minimizing adverse effects on competition or disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices consistent with the public health and safety.
The adverse effects of the ban on patching compounds containing asbestos is reduced by limiting the ban to intentionally added asbestos. Other alternatives such as limiting the scope of the ban only to products purchased and used by consumers or to issuing a ban with a later effective date, were considered by the Commission. However, none was found that would cause less disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices, consistent with public health and safety.
Pt. 1305

# PART 1305—BAN OF ARTIFICIAL EMBERIZING MATERIALS (ASH AND EMBERS) CONTAINING RESPIRABLE FREE-FORM ASBESTOS
Sec.
1305.1
Scope and application.
1305.2
Purpose.
1305.3
Definitions.
1305.4
Artificial fireplace ash and embers as banned hazardous products.
1305.5
Findings.

# Authority:
Secs. 8, 9, 30(d), Pub. L. 92-573, as amended, Pub. L. 94-284; 86 Stat. 1215-17, as amended, 90 Stat. 506 (15 U.S.C. 2057, 2058).

# Source:
42 FR 63364, Dec. 15, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1305.1
Scope and application.
In this part 1305 the Consumer Product Safety Commission declares that artificial emberizing materials (ash and embers) containing respirable free-form asbestos generally packaged in an emberizing kit for use in fireplaces, and designed for use in such a manner that the asbestos fibers can become airborne under reasonably foreseeable conditions of use are banned hazardous products under sections 8 and 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA) (15 U.S.C. 2057 and 2058). This ban applies to artificial emberizing materials available in separate kits or with artificial fireplace logs for use in fireplaces and sprinkled or coated by consumers
on the artificial logs to simulate live embers and ashes and give a glowing appearance when subjected to high temperatures. Bags of material containing asbestos that are sold separately to be sprinkled on and under artificial logs to simulate burning and glowing ashes also come within the scope of this ban.
§ 1305.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this rule is to ban artificial emberizing materials containing respirable free-form asbestos. These products present an unreasonable risk of injury due to inhalation of fibers which increase the risk of developing cancers such as lung cancer and mesothelioma, diseases which have been demonstrated to be caused by exposure to asbestos fibers.
§ 1305.3
Definitions.
(a) The definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) apply to this part 1305.
(b)
Asbestos
means a group of mineral fibers composed of hydrated silicates, oxygen, hydrogen and other elements such as sodium, iron, magnesium and calcium in diverse combinations and are: Amosite, chrysotile, crocidolite, anthophyllite asbestos, actinolite asbestos, and tremolite asbestos.
(c)
Free-form asbestos
is that which is not bound, woven, or otherwise “locked-in” to a product by resins or other bonding agents, or those from which fibers can readily become airborne with any reasonably foreseeable use.
(d)
Emberizing materials
means an asbestos-containing material generally packed in an “emberizing” kit to be placed under artificial logs in gas-burning fireplace systems or in artificial fireplaces for decorative purposes. The product is also glued to artificial logs, either at a factory or by a consumer using an emberizing kit. (Synthetic logs manufactured of cellulostic products which are consumed by flames are not included in this definition. Electric artificial logs and artificial ash beds used in electric fireplaces, which do not contain respirable free-form asbestos are not included in this definition.)
§ 1305.4
Artificial fireplace ash and embers as banned hazardous products.
On the basis that airborne asbestos fibers present the hazards of cancer such as lung cancer and mesothelioma to the public, artificial fireplace ash and embers containings respirable free-form asbestos are banned hazardous products.
§ 1305.5
Findings.
(a)
The degree and nature of the risk of injury.
The Commission finds that the risk of injury which this regulation is designed to eliminate or reduce is from cancer, including lung cancer and mesothelioma. Measurements are not available of the amounts of asbestos in the air from asbestos-containing emberizing materials in homes. However, it appears that the amount of airborne asbestos in such homes would increase when air currents in the home are created by downdrafts from a fireplace chimney or other activities that stir air in any room. Since emberizing materials may contain up to 50 percent asbestos, which if not permanently bound into artificial fireplace logs would be in respirable form, the risk associated with emberizing materials is considerable, especially since it continues to exist 24 hours a day.
(b)
Products subject to the ban.
Artificial emberizing materials are decorative simulated ashes or embers, used in certain gas-buring fireplace systems, which glow to give the appearance of real burning embers. The material is sprinkled on or glued to gas logs, or sprinkled on fireplace floors.
(c)
Need of the public for the products and effects of the rule on their utility, cost, and availability.
Artificial fireplace emberizing material serves a strictly decorative purpose and does not materially affect the actual performance of the fireplace gas system in terms of its ability to provide heat. A certain degree of aesthetic desirability exists, however, since the product “system” itself (the gas log, ashes, and embers) is intended to simulate burning wooden logs. Gas logs may be sold with artificial emberizing material attached at the factory (the log commonly referred to as being “frosted”), or with the “embers” in a separate kit,
often mixed with simulated “ashes.” Virtually all gas logs are either frosted or packaged with an emberizing kit; however, the majority of gas logs produced in 1977 were packaged with non-asbestos-containing emberizing kits. The Commission estimates annual sales of artificial gas logs at approximately 100,000 units. Some 25,000-30,000 of these would be subject to the ban. Approximately 100,000 gas logs frosted or treated by consumers with asbestos are estimated to be in existence. The Commission believes that the majority of gas logs are sold with emberizing kits; this gives the consumer a choice as to whether or not to use the artificial embers and ashes.
(1)
Utility.
Manufacturers of artificial gas log emberizing material are currently using four substitutes for asbestos in their products: vermiculite, rock wool, mica, and a synthetic fiber. None of the four is claimed to be as aesthetically effective as asbestos. Thus, the utility derived by consumers from some gas-burning fireplace systems may be adversely affected.
(2)
Cost.
No effect on the overall price level of gas logs is anticipated as a result of the ban. The average price of emberizing kits may rise somewhat; the Commission estimates the total price effect of the ban on consumers at under $25,000.
(3)
Availability.
The Commission believes that all producers of artificial emberizing material will have eliminated asbestos from their products by the time the ban becomes effective. No significant impact on the availability of asbestos substitutes to producers nor on the availability of gas logs or emberizing kits to retail dealers and consumers is expected as a result of the ban.
(d)
Any means of achieving the objective of the ban while minimizing adverse effects on competition or disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices consistent with the public health and safety.
The Commission believes that there will be minimal disruption to the market for artificial emberizing materials as a consequence of the ban and that no further reduction in adverse effects is feasible.
Pt. 1306

# PART 1306—BAN OF HAZARDOUS LAWN DARTS
Sec.
1306.1
Scope and application.
1306.2
Purpose.
1306.3
Banned hazardous products.
1306.4
Findings.
1306.5
Effective date.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2058-2060.

# Source:
53 FR 46839, Nov. 18, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1306.1
Scope and application.
(a) In this part 1306, the Commission declares lawn darts, described in § 1306.3, to be banned hazardous products.
(b) Lawn darts and similar products that are articles intended for use by children are not covered by this ban, but are banned under the Federal Hazardous Substances Act at 16 CFR 1500.18(a)(4).
§ 1306.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this rule is to prohibit the sale of lawn darts, which have been found to present an unreasonable risk of skull puncture injuries to children.
§ 1306.3
Banned hazardous products.
Any lawn dart is a banned hazardous product.
§ 1306.4
Findings.
(a) The Commission has found that lawn darts are being distributed in commerce and present an unreasonable risk of injury.
(b)
The degree and nature of the risk of injury.
(1) The risk that the Commission intends to address in this proceeding is that of puncture of the skulls of children caused by lawn darts being used by children. The potential for these devices to cause these types of injuries is not necessarily obvious to parents or other adults who might buy these items or allow their children to play with them, much less to the children themselves. This is because the tips do not appear sharp enough to present an obvious danger of puncture. The combined factors of weight, the narrow elongated shaft, the speed that the dart is traveling at the time of impact, and the thickness of the child's skull at the point of impact present the
risk. The Commission has concluded that all lawn darts have the potential for skull puncture during reasonably foreseeable use or misuse.
(2) Because all lawn darts are being banned, the elimination of lawn darts that can cause skull puncture injuries will also eliminate the punctures of other parts of the body, as well as the lacerations, fractures, and other injuries that have been associated with lawn darts in the past. The Commission's staff estimates that about 670 injuries from lawn darts are treated in U.S. hospital emergency rooms per year. About 40 percent of these are puncture wounds. Approximately 57 percent of the injuries involved the head, face, eye, or ear. Approximately 4 percent of the injured victims were hospitalized (on the average, approximately 25 per year), including all of the injuries reported as fractures. Over 75 percent of the victims were under age 15; about 50 percent of the victims were under age 10. In addition, Commission records dating back to 1970 show that at least three children have been killed by injuries associated with lawn darts. These children were 4, 7, and 13 years old. In the 25 lawn dart injury reports for which information about the user of the lawn darts was available, the reports indicated that children were playing with the lawn darts, despite the ban and exemption which were developed to keep the product out of the hands of children.
(c)
Products subject to this ban.
(1) Lawn darts are devices with elongated tips that are intended to be used outdoors and that are designed so that when they are thrown into the air they will contact the ground tip first. Often, lawn darts are used in a game where the darts are thrown at a target or other feature on the ground. The types of lawn darts that have generally been available in the past and that have demonstrated their ability to cause skull puncture injuries typically have a metal or weighted plastic body, on the front of which is an elongated metal shaft about
1/4
inch in diameter. These darts have a shaft on the rear of the body containing plastic fins. These darts are about a foot in length and weigh about one quarter to one half pound. These darts are intended to stick in the ground when thrown. Prior to this rule, annual sales of these lawn darts were estimated at 1-1.5 million units.
(2) The definition for lawn darts in this rule is not intended to include arrows or horseshoes, nor is it intended to apply to indoor dart games that use a vertically-placed target, such as “English darts” or “American darts.”
(d)
The need of the public for lawn darts, and the effects of the rule on their utility, cost, and availability.
The need of the public for lawn darts is for recreational enjoyment. Substitute recreational enjoyment can be obtained from other products. Lawn darts will not be available through commercial channels after the effective date of the ban.
(e)
Alternatives.
(1) The Commission considered various labeling requirements and limitations on the marketing of lawn darts that would be intended to discourage the marketing of the product to children and the use of the product by children. The Commission concluded, however, that these types of requirements would not preclude substantial use of the product by children and would not reduce adequately the risk of injury addressed by this rule.
(2) The Commission also considered the possibility of performance requirements for lawn darts to determine which lawn darts present an unreasonable risk of injury of skull penetration to children, but such requirements were determined not to be feasible.
(f)
Conclusion.
The Commission finds:
(1) That this rule, including its effective date, is reasonably necessary to eliminate or adequately reduce the unreasonable risk of skull puncture wounds to children associated with lawn darts and will also eliminate or reduce the other injuries, including puncture wounds, that have been associated with this product.
(2) That issuance of the rule is in the public interest.
(3) That no feasible consumer product safety standard would adequately protect the public from the unreasonable risk associated with lawn darts.
(4) That the benefits expected from this rule bear a reasonable relationship to its costs.
(5) That the rule imposes the least burdensome requirement which prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated.
§ 1306.5
Effective date.
This rule is effective December 19, 1988 and applies to all lawn darts in the chain of distribution on or after that date.
Pt. 1307

# PART 1307—PROHIBITION OF CHILDREN'S TOYS AND CHILD CARE ARTICLES CONTAINING SPECIFIED PHTHALATES
Sec.
1307.1
Scope and application.
1307.2
Definitions.
1307.3
Prohibition on children's toys and child care articles containing specified phthalates.

# Authority:
Sec. 108, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (August 14, 2008); Pub. L. 112-28, 125 Stat. 273 (August 12, 2011).

# Source:
82 FR 49982, Oct. 27, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1307.1
Scope and application.
This part prohibits the manufacture for sale, offer for sale, distribution in commerce or importation into the United States of any children's toy or child care article containing any of the phthalates specified in § 1307.3.
§ 1307.2
Definitions.
The definitions of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA) (15 U.S.C. 2052(a)) and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (CPSIA) (Pub. L. 110-314, sec. 108(g)) apply to this part. Specifically, as defined in the CPSIA:
(a)
Children's toy
means a consumer product designed or intended by the manufacturer for a child 12 years of age or younger for use by the child when the child plays.
(b)
Child care article
means a consumer product designed or intended by the manufacturer to facilitate sleep or the feeding of children age 3 and younger, or to help such children with sucking or teething.
§ 1307.3
Prohibition of children's toys and child care articles containing specified phthalates.
(a) As provided in section 108(a) of the CPSIA, the manufacture for sale, offer for sale, distribution in commerce, or importation into the United States of any children's toy or child care article that contains concentrations of more than 0.1 percent of di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) , dibutyl phthalate (DBP), or benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP) is prohibited.
(b) In accordance with section 108(b)(3) of the CPSIA, the manufacture for sale, offer for sale, distribution in commerce, or importation into the United States of any children's toy or child care article that contains concentrations of more than 0.1 percent of diisononyl phthalate (DINP), diisobutyl phthalate (DIBP), di-
n
-pentyl phthalate (DPENP), di-
n
-hexyl phthalate (DHEXP), or dicyclohexyl phthalate (DCHP) is prohibited.
(c) In accordance with section 108(c) of the CPSIA, the restrictions stated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply to any plasticized component part of a children's toy or child care article or any other component part of a children's toy or child care article that is made of other materials that may contain phthalates.
[82 FR 49982, Oct. 27, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 34764, July 23, 2018]
Pt. 1308

# PART 1308—PROHIBITION OF CHILDREN'S TOYS AND CHILD CARE ARTICLES CONTAINING SPECIFIED PHTHALATES: DETERMINATIONS REGARDING CERTAIN PLASTICS
Sec.
1308.1
Prohibited children's toys and child care articles containing specified phthalates and testing requirements.
1308.2
Determinations for specified plastics.

# Authority:
Sec. 3, Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016; 15 U.S.C. 2063(d)(3)(B).

# Source:
82 FR 41171, Aug. 30, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1308.1
Prohibited children's toys and child care articles containing specified phthalates and testing requirements.
Section 108(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (CPSIA) permanently prohibits any children's toy or child care article that contains concentrations of more than 0.1 percent of di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), dibutyl phthalate (DBP), or benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP). In accordance with section 108(b)(3) of the CPSIA, 16 CFR part 1307 prohibits any children's toy or child care article that contains concentrations of more than 0.1 percent of diisononyl phthalate (DINP), diisobutyl phthalate (DIBP), di-
n
-pentyl phthalate (DPENP), di-
n
-hexyl phthalate (DHEXP), or dicyclohexyl phthalate (DCHP) is prohibited. Materials used in children's toys and child care articles subject to section 108(a) of the CPSIA and 16 CFR part 1307 must comply with the third party testing requirements of section 14(a)(2) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA), unless listed in § 1308.2.
[83 FR 3585, Jan. 26, 2018, as amended at 83 FR 34765, July 23, 2018]
§ 1308.2
Determinations for specified plastics.
(a) The following plastics do not exceed the phthalates content limits with a high degree of assurance as that term is defined in 16 CFR part 1107:
(1) Polypropylene (PP), with any of the following additives:
(i) The plasticizers polybutenes, dioctyl sebacate, isooctyl tallate, paraffinic, naphthenic, and mineral plasticizing oils, and polyol;
(ii) Unrecovered catalysts;
(iii) Fillers;
(iv) Primary and secondary antioxidants;
(v) Neutralizing agents;
(vi) Antistatic agents;
(vii) Slip agents;
(viii) Metal deactivators;
(ix) Quenchers;
(x) UV stabilizers;
(xi) Nucleating agents;
(xii) Flame retardants;
(xiii) Blowing or foaming agents;
(xiv) Antiblocking agents;
(xv) Lubricants; or
(xvi) Colorants.
(2) Polyethylene (PE), with any of the following additives:
(i) The plasticizers glyceryl tribenzoate, polyethylene glycol, sunflower oil, paraffin wax, paraffin oil, mineral oil, glycerin, EPDM rubber, and EVA polymer;
(ii) Initiators;
(iii) Promoters;
(iv) Unrecovered catalysts;
(v) Fillers;
(vi) Antistatic agents;
(vii) Flame retardants;
(viii) Anti-blocking agents;
(ix) Slip agents;
(x) Blowing agents;
(xi) Cross-linking agents;
(xii) Antioxidants;
(xiii) Carbon black; or
(xiv) Colorants.
(3) General purpose polystyrene (GPPS), medium-impact polystyrene (MIPS), high-impact polystyrene (HIPS), and super high-impact polystyrene (SHIPS) with any of the following additives:
(i) Unrecovered catalysts;
(ii) Internal lubricants;
(iii) Chain transfer/transition agents;
(iv) Stabilizers;
(v) Diluents;
(vi) Colorants;
(vii) Aluminum chloride, ethyl chloride, hydrochloric acid;
(viii) Iron oxide, potassium oxide, chromium oxide; or
(ix) Bifunctional peroxides.
(4) Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS), with any of the following additives:
(i) The plasticizers hydrocarbon processing oil, triphenyl phosphate, resorcinol bis(diphenyl phosphate), oligomeric phosphate, long chain fatty acid esters and aromatic sulfonamide;
(ii) Stabilizers;
(iii) Lubricants;
(iv) Antioxidants;
(v) Molecular weight regulators;
(vi) Initiators/unrecovered catalysts,
(vii) Activators;
(viii) Emulsifiers; or
(ix) Colorants.
(b) Accessible component parts of children's toys and child care articles made with the specified plastics, and specified additives, listed in paragraph (a) of this section are not required to
be third party tested pursuant to section 14(a)(2) of the CPSA and 16 CFR part 1107.
(c) Accessible component parts of children's toys and child care articles made with a plastic or additives not listed in paragraph (a) of this section that are plasticized or may contain phthalates are required to be third party tested pursuant to section 14(a)(2) of the CPSA and 16 CFR part 1107.
Pt. 1309

# PART 1309—BAN OF CRIB BUMPERS
Sec.
1309.1
Purpose and scope.
1309.2
Definition.
1309.3
Banned hazardous product.
1309.4
Effective date.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2057e.

# Source:
88 FR 54879, Aug. 14, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1309.1
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this rule is to prohibit the sale, offer for sale, 9manufacture for sale, distribution in commerce, or importation into the United States, of any crib bumpers, as defined in part 1309.2, as set forth in the Safety Sleep for Babies Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 2057e).
§ 1309.2
Definition.
Crib bumper:
(1) Means any material that is intended to cover the sides of a crib to prevent injury to any crib occupant from impacts against the side of a crib or to prevent partial or complete access to any openings in the sides of a crib to prevent a crib occupant from getting any part of the body entrapped in any opening;
(2) Includes a padded crib bumper, a supported and unsupported vinyl bumper guard, and vertical crib slat covers; and
(3) Does not include a non-padded mesh crib liner.
§ 1309.3
Banned hazardous product.
Any crib bumper, as defined in section 1309.2, regardless of the date of manufacture, is a banned hazardous product under section 8 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2057).
§ 1309.4
Effective date.
By statute, the effective date of this ban is November 12, 2022. This effective date of this rule is September 13, 2023.
Pt. 1310

# PART 1310—BAN OF INCLINED SLEEPERS FOR INFANTS
Sec.
1310.1
Purpose and scope.
1310.2
Definition.
1310.3
Banned hazardous product.
1310.4
Effective date.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2057d.

# Source:
88 FR 55559, Aug. 16, 2023, unless otherwise note.
§ 1310.1
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this rule is to prohibit the sale, offer for sale, manufacture for sale, distribution in commerce, or importation into the United States, of any inclined sleepers for infants, as defined in part 1310.2 and as set forth in the Safe Sleep for Babies Act of 2021 (15. U.S.C. 2057d).
§ 1310.2
Definition.
Inclined sleeper for infants
means a product with an inclined sleep surface greater than ten degrees that is intended, marketed, or designed to provide sleeping accommodations for an infant up to 1 year old.
§ 1310.3
Banned hazardous product.
Any inclined sleeper for infants, as defined in section 1310.2, regardless of the date of manufacture, is a banned hazardous product under section 8 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2057).
§ 1310.4
Effective date.
By statute, the effective date of this ban is November 12, 2022. The effective date of this rule is September 15, 2023.
Pt. 1401

# PART 1401—SELF PRESSURIZED CONSUMER PRODUCTS CONTAINING CHLOROFLUOROCARBONS: REQUIREMENTS TO PROVIDE THE COMMISSION WITH PERFORMANCE AND TECHNICAL DATA; REQUIREMENTS TO NOTIFY CONSUMERS AT POINT OF PURCHASE OF PERFORMANCE AND TECHNICAL DATA
Sec.
1401.1
Scope.
1401.2
Purpose.
1401.3
Definitions.
1401.4
[Reserved]
1401.5
Providing performance and technical data to purchasers by labeling.
1401.6
Effective date.

# Authority:
Secs. 2(b), 27(e), Pub. L. 92-573, 86 Stat. 1208, 1228 (15 U.S.C. 2051(b), 2076(e)).

# Source:
42 FR 42783, Aug. 24, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1401.1
Scope.
This part 1401 establishes requirements under section 27(e) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2076(e)) for marketers and importers of self-pressurized consumer products that contain chlorofluorocarbons as propellants to provide notification of certain performance and technical data to prospective purchasers of such products at the time of original purchase and to the first purchaser of such products for purposes other than resale. The notification shall consist of a label on the product stating that it contains a chlorofluorocarbon that may harm the public health and environment by reducing the ozone in the upper atmosphere. Also, manufacturers and importers must provide the commission with reports identifying which of the self-pressurized consumer products sold by them contain chlorofluorocarbon propellants.
§ 1401.2
Purpose.
Chlorofluorocarbons are used as propellants in self-pressurized containers of a variety of products subject to the Commission's jurisdiction. Scientific research has indicated that chlorofluorocarbons may pose a risk of depletion of ozone in the stratosphere. The stratospheric ozone shield is of great importance in protecting life on earth from shortwave ultra-violet rays of the sun. Ozone depletion allows more of these rays to reach the earth, and the consequences include a possibility of a significant increase in human skin cancer and other effects of unknown magnitude on man, animals, and plants. Chlorofluorocarbon release may also cause climatic change, both by reducing stratospheric ozone and by increasing infrared absorption in the atmosphere. The Commission believes that the requirements of this part 1401 will enable consumers to make a conscious choice of whether to use products that contain chlorofluorocarbon propellants. The Commission also believes that these requirements are necessary in order to carry out the purposes of the Consumer Product Safety Act of (a) helping to protect the public against unreasonable risks of injury associated with consumer products and (b) assisting consumers in evaluating the comparative safety of consumer products.
§ 1401.3
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part 1401:
(a)
Chlorofluorocarbon
means any fully halogenated chlorofluoroalkane.
(b)
Finished product
means a product which has been completely manufactured, packaged, and labeled.
(c)
Initially introduced into interstate commerce
means the first shipment of the product into interstate commerce by the firm marketing the product. There must be both physical movement in interstate commerce and passage of title to the product. Thus, mere shipment of a product across state lines from a contract filler to the marketer of the product would not constitute initial introduction into interstate commerce. All products initially introduced into interstate commerce before the effective date may continue to be distributed and sold even though they do not bear the warning statement.
(d)
Manufacturer
means any person who manufactures or imports a consumer product. The term includes both a person who manufactures the product at the direction of another (such as a contract filler of aerosol products) and
the person at whose direction the product is manufactured (such as the marketer of the brand).
(e)
Propellent
means a liquefied or compressed gas in a container, where a purpose of the liquefied or compressed gas is to expel material from the container. The material to be expelled may be the propellant itself and/or a material different from the propellent.
(f) The definitions given in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) shall, where applicable, apply to this part 1401.
§ 1401.4
[Reserved]
§ 1401.5
Providing performance and technical data to purchasers by labeling.
(a) Manufacturers of self-pressurized consumer products containing a chlorofluorocarbon propellant shall provide performance and technical data concerning such products that they import or initially introduce into interstate commerce after February 19, 1978, to prospective purchasers at the time of original purchase and to the first purchaser for purposes other than resale. The data shall consist of the following identification and warning statement: “WARNING—Contains a chlorofluorocarbon that may harm the public health and environment by reducing ozone in the upper atmosphere.”
(b) The identification and warning statement required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be in addition to any other required labeling and shall be sufficiently prominent and conspicuous as to be likely to be read and understood by ordinary individuals under normal conditions of purchase. This identification and warning statement shall appear on the immediate container of the product and also on any outside container or wrapper in which the product is normally offered for sale at retail. The identification and warning statement may appear on a firmly affixed tag, tape, card, or sticker or similar overlabeling attached to the package.
[42 FR 42783, Aug. 24, 1977; 42 FR 46285, Sept. 15, 1977]
§ 1401.6
Effective date.
This part becomes effective February 20, 1978.
Pt. 1402

# PART 1402—CB BASE STATION ANTENNAS, TV ANTENNAS, AND SUPPORTING STRUCTURES
Sec.
1402.1
Scope.
1402.2
Background.
1402.3
Definitions.
1402.4
Requirements to provide performance and technical data by labeling and instructions.
Appendix I to Part 1402—Recommended Outline for Instruction Booklet on “How To Safely Install Your CB Base Station Antenna”

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2051, 2076.

# Source:
43 FR 28392, June 29, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1402.1
Scope.
(a) This part 1402 requires manufacturers (including importers) of Citizens Band (CB) base station antennas, outdoor television (TV) antennas, and their supporting structures to provide notification of ways to avoid the hazard of electrocution which exists when these products are allowed to come near powerlines while the antennas are being put up or taken down. The notification must be provided to (1) prospective purchasers of such products at the time of original purchase and (2) the first purchaser of such products for purposes other than resale. The notification consists of instructions to accompany the products, warning labels on the products, and warning statements on the packaging or parts container. Samples of the instructions, labels, and warning statements must also be provided to the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
(b) This part 1402 applies to any of the following that are “consumer products” as defined in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) and that are manufactured or imported, or packaged or sold by the manufacturer or importer, after September 26, 1978.
(1) Antennas designed or intended to be used as outdoor CB base station antennas (referred to in this rule as “CB base station antennas”).
(2) Antennas designed or intended to be used as outdoor TV receiving antennas (referred to in this rule as “TV antennas”).
(3) Antenna supporting structures, which are elements over 5 feet in length that are intended to support these types of antennas at a higher elevation. These structures include towers, tripods, and masts. Devices which merely secure the antenna in place are not included.
[43 FR 28392, June 29, 1978, as amended at 43 FR 47722, Oct. 17, 1978]
§ 1402.2
Background.
As a result of numerous electrocutions which have occurred when consumers contacted powerlines with CB base station and outside TV antennas while putting these antennas up or taking them down, the Consumer Product Safety Commission has determined that it is necessary to require that warnings and instructions be furnished with these antennas and their supporting structures so that consumers can be made aware of the hazards involved and of safe ways to put up and take down these antennas. The Commission anticipates that this regulation will help protect the public against the unreasonable risk of injury associated with CB base station antennas, outside TV antennas, and supporting structures due to contact with overhead powerlines.
§ 1402.3
Definitions.
(a) The definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) apply to this part 1402.
(b)
Antenna supporting structures, CB base station antennas,
and
TV antennas
are defined in § 1402.1(b)(1) through (3).
§ 1402.4
Requirements to provide performance and technical data by labeling and instructions.
(a)
Notice to purchasers.
Manufacturers of CB base station antennas, TV antennas, and antenna supporting structures shall give notification of performance and technical data related to performance and safety to prospective purchasers of such products at the time of original purchase and to the first purchaser of such product for purposes other than resale, in the manner set forth below.
(1)
Antennas.
CB base station antennas and TV antennas shall be provided with the following:
EC03OC91.048
(i)
Label.
(A) The antenna shall bear the label shown in fig. 1 so that the label will be conspicuous to the installer during installation.
(B) If pipe or tubular nontelescoping masts are a suitable supporting structure for the antenna, a separate label as shown in fig. 1 shall accompany the antenna. The label shall be suitable for mounting by the consumer on such a mast.
(C) The label in figure 1 shall be made and attached in such a manner that it will be legible for an average expected life of at least 3 years.
(D) The word “product” may be substituted for “antenna” in the label of fig. 1.
(E)(
1
) The colors in figure 1 shall conform to ANSI Standard Z53.1-1971, “Safety Color Code for Marking Physical Hazards,” published in 1971 by the American National Standards Institute, which is incorporated by reference. Copies of this document are available from the American National Standards Institute, 1430 Broadway,
New York, New York 10018. This standard is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register. These materials are incorporated as they exist in the edition which has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register and which has been filed with the Office of the Federal Register. Alternatively, the colors “red” and “yellow” in figure 1 may conform to Color Tolerance Charts, published by the Department of Transportation. Copies of the Color Tolerance Charts are available from the Office of Hazardous Materials, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590. These materials are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(
2
) Color limit values shall be determined by ASTM D 1535-68, “Specifying Color by the Munsell System,” published in 1968 by the American Society for Testing and Materials. Copies of ASTM D 1535-68 are available from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103. These materials are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register. These materials are incorporated as they exist in the edition which has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register and which has been filed with the Office of the Federal Register. Alternatively, color limit values for red or yellow may be determined by the Department of Transportation Color Tolerance Charts, which display the desired color within the tolerance limits.
(ii)
Instructions.
CB base station antennas and TV antennas shall be accompanied by instructions that include the following:
(A) The following warning statement, placed on the first page of the document(s) containing the instructions and at the beginning of the body of the instructions: “WARNING: INSTALLATION OF THIS PRODUCT NEAR POWERLINES IS DANGEROUS. FOR YOUR SAFETY, FOLLOW THE INSTALLATION DIRECTIONS”. This statement shall be legible and conspicuous and shall be in type that is at least as large as the largest type used on the remainder of the page, with the exception of the logo and any identification of the manufacturer, brand, model, or similar designations, and that is preferably no smaller than 10 point type.
(B) The information set forth below, which shall be in a part of the instructions that is conspicuously identified as containing information concerning the risk of electrocution caused by contact with powerlines. No particular wording is required for this information, but it shall be in legible English and readily understandable to a user with a sixth grade reading ability (other languages may be included as appropriate).
(
1
) An explanation of the risk of electrocution caused by contacting powerlines while putting up or taking down the antenna.
(
2
) An identification of the generally available types and sizes of antenna supporting structures that are suitable for use with the antenna. If a generally available type or size of supporting structure is not identified as suitable, an explanation of why it is not suitable shall be included.
(
3
) If pipe or tubular non-telescoping masts are a suitable supporting structure for the antenna, the instructions shall contain the following in relation to installation of the antenna on such masts:
(
i
) How to select and measure the installation site.
(
ii
) An explanation (pictorial where appropriate) of methods that can be
used to reduce the possibility of contact with powerlines when putting up and taking down the antenna mast.
(
iii
) Instructions for properly attaching the separate label that is required to accompany the antenna by paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(
iv
) A statement that if the supporting structure to be used with the antenna does not have a label of the type provided by the manufacturer, the provided label should be attached to the base of the supporting structure by the installer.
(2)
Antenna supporting structures.
Antenna supporting structures, except pipe or tubular nontelescoping mast sections less than 11 ft. (335 cm.) in length that are not individually packaged or otherwise contained in a package intended for distribution to the consumer, shall comply with the following requirements:
(i)
Label.
(A) Antenna supporting structures shall bear the label shown in fig. 1, which shall be legible for an average expected life of at least 3 years. The label shall be attached so that it is conspicuous during installation and is 3 to 5 ft. (91 to 152 cm.) from the base of the supporting structure.
(B) The word “product” may be substituted for “antenna” in the label, as may “tower”, “tripod”, or other term, if it accurately describes the supporting structure.
(ii)
Instructions.
Antenna supporting structures shall be accompanied by instructions that include the following:
(A) The following warning statement, placed on the first page of the document(s) containing the instructions and at the beginning of the body of the instructions: “WARNING: INSTALLATION OF THIS PRODUCT NEAR POWERLINES IS DANGEROUS. FOR YOUR SAFETY, FOLLOW THE INSTALLATION DIRECTIONS.” This statement shall be legible and conspicuous and shall be in type that is at least as large as the largest type used on the remainder of the page, with the exception of the logo and any identification of the manufacturer, brand, model, and similar designations, and that is preferably no smaller than 10 point type.
(B) The information set forth below, which shall be in a part of the instructions that is conspicuously identified as containing information concerning the risk of electrocution caused by contact with powerlines. No particular wording is required for this information, but it shall be in legible English and understandable to a user with a sixth grade reading ability (other languages may be included as appropriate).
(
1
) An explanation of the risk of electrocution caused by contacting powerlines while putting up or taking down the supporting structure.
(
2
) How to select and measure the installation site.
(
3
) An explanation (pictorial where appropriate) of methods that can be used to reduce the possibility of contact with powerlines when putting up and taking down the supporting structure.
(3)
Packaging.
(i) The following warning statement shall legibly and conspicuously appear on either the packaging or the parts container of any CB base station antenna, TV antenna, or antenna supporting structure: “Warning: Installation of this product near powerlines is dangerous. For your safety, follow the enclosed installation directions.”
(b)
Data provided to the Commission.
(1) Manufacturers of CB base station antennas, TV antennas, and antenna supporting structures shall provide to the Commission samples of all the labels, warning statements, and instructions which will be used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. These samples shall be provided to the Assistant Executive Director for Compliance, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, Md. 20207, by October 27, 1978, or, in the event of a subsequent change in the warning statements or instructions or if a new product is introduced, within 30 days after the change or introduction.
(2) Manufacturers need not submit a separate sample for each model of antenna or supporting structure where different models use the same label and warning statement and where the portion of the instructions required by this part is the same for the different models (even though the remainder of the instructions may be different for
each model). Changes in instructions which do not affect the portions of the instructions required by this part do not require the submission of additional samples.
(3) The reporting requirement contained in this section has been approved by the U.S. General Accounting Office under No. B-180232 (R0555).
[43 FR 28392, June 29, 1978, as amended at 43 FR 47722, Oct. 17, 1978; 46 FR 63250, Dec. 31, 1981; 62 FR 46667, Sept. 4, 1997]
Pt. 1402, App. I

# Appendix I to Part 1402—Recommended Outline for Instruction Booklet on “How To Safely Install Your CB Base Station Antenna”
I. Required Warning Label Statement.
II. Statement of Hazard.
III. General Safety Instructions:
A. Seek professional assistance.
B. Select your site with safety in mind.
C. Call your electric power company.
D. Plan your procedure.
E. What to do if the assembly starts to drop.
F. What to do if the assembly contacts powerlines.
G. What to do in case of electric shock.
IV. Site Selection (How to select and measure the installation site):
A. Distance from powerlines.
B. FCC height limitations.
C. Alternate locations:
1. Roof.
2. Chimney.
3. Side of house.
4. Free standing.
V. Types and Sizes of Support Structures and Mountings:
A. Tripod:
1. Where it can be used.
2. Limitations.
3. Suitable mounting methods.
B. Tubular Mast:
1. Non-telescopic:
a. Where it can be used.
b. Limitations.
c. Suitable mounting methods.
2. Telescopic: *
* Detailed instructions for installing these supports would come with the product.
a. Where it can be used.
b. Limitations.
c. Suitable mounting methods.
C. Tower:*
1. Where it can be used.
2. Limitations.
3. Suitable mounting methods.
VI. Installation Instructions:
A. General Instructions:
1. Materials.
2. Assembly.
3. How to walk-up a tubular mast:
a. Height limitations.
b. Tying off.
c. Raising the mast with an X-frame.
d. Raising the mast without an X-frame.
4. Guy Wires.
B. How to Install a Tripod:
1. Preparation.
2. Erecting the assembly.
3. Securing the assembly.
C. How to Install a Non-telescopic Tubular Mast:
1. Roof Mount:
a. Preparation.
b. Erecting the assembly.
c. Securing the assembly.
2. Chimney Mount:
a. Preparation.
b. Erecting the assembly.
c. Securing the assembly.
3. Side of House Mount:
a. Preparation.
b. Erecting the assembly.
c. Securing the assembly.
4. Free Standing Mount:
a. Preparation.
b. Erecting the assembly.
c. Securing the assembly.
VII. Grounding Your Antenna:
D. How to Install a Telescopic Mast:*
1. Preparation.
2. Erecting the assembly.
3. Securing the assembly.
E. How to Install a Tower:*
1. Preparation.
2. Erecting the assembly.
3. Securing the assembly.
VIII. Instructions for Attaching Label to Antenna and Supporting Structure.
Pt. 1404

# PART 1404—CELLULOSE INSULATION
Sec.
1404.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
1404.2
Background.
1404.3
Definitions.
1404.4
Requirements to provide performance and technical data by labeling—Notice to purchasers.

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 27, 35, Pub. L. 92-573, Pub. L. 95-319; 86 Stat. 1207, 1228; 92 Stat. 386 (15 U.S.C. 2051, 2076, 2082).

# Source:
44 FR 40001, July 6, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1404.1
Scope, application, and effective date.
(a)
Scope.
This part 1404 establishes a requirement for manufacturers, including importers, of cellulose insulation to notify (1) prospective purchasers of
such products at the time of original purchase and (2) the first purchasers of such products for purposes other than resale (installers and consumers) of ways to avoid the fire hazard that exists where cellulose insulation is installed too close to the sides or over the top of a recessed electrical light fixture or where cellulose insulation is installed too close to the exhaust flues from heat-producing devices or apparatus such as furnaces, water heaters, and space heaters. The notification consists of a warning label on the containers of cellulose insulation.
(b)
Application and effective date.
This rule applies to cellulose insulation that is for sale to consumers for installation in households or residences, as well as insulation that is produced or distributed for installation by professionals in households or residences. Cellulose insulation that is labeled as, marketed, and sold solely for nonresidential installation is not included within the scope of this proceeding. The rule applies to all products manufactured after October 15, 1979.
§ 1404.2
Background.
Based on available fire incident information, engineering analysis of the probable fire scenarios, and laboratory tests, the Consumer Product Safety Commission has determined that fires can occur where cellulose insulation is improperly installed too close to the sides or over the top of recessed electrical light fixtures, or installed too close to the exhaust flues from heat producing devices or apparatus such as furnaces, water heaters, and space heaters. These fires may result in serious injuries or deaths. Presently available information indicates that fires may occur where cellulose insulation is improperly installed even though the cellulose insulation complies with the Commission's amended interim standard for cellulose insulation (16 CFR part 1209) based on GSA Specification HH-I-515D. The Commission has determined that it is necessary to require labeling to inform persons installing cellulose insulation and consumers in whose homes the insulation is installed of the fire hazard associated with improperly installed cellulose insulation and the method of properly installing the insulation to prevent this hazard. The Commission anticipates that this regulation will accomplish the purpose of helping protect the public against the unreasonable risk of injury associated with improperly installed cellulose insulation.
§ 1404.3
Definitions.
The definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) apply to this part 1404.
Cellulose insulation
is cellulosic fiber, loose fill, thermal insulation that is suitable for blowing or pouring applications.
Manufacturer
means any person who manufactures or imports a consumer product. The term includes both a person who manufactures the product at the direction of another (such as a packager) and the person at whose direction the product is manufactured (such as the marketer of the brand).
§ 1404.4
Requirements to provide performance and technical data by labeling—Notice to purchasers.
(a) Manufacturers of cellulose insulation shall give notification of performance and technical data related to performance and safety (1) to prospective purchasers at the time of original purchase and (2) to the first purchaser of such products for purposes other than resale in the following manner. Manufacturers of cellulose insulation shall label all containers of cellulose insulation with the following statement, using capital letters as indicated:

# Caution
Potential Fire Hazard:
Keep cellulose insulation at least three inches away from the sides of recessed light fixtures. Do not place insulation over such fixtures so as to entrap heat.
Also keep this insulation away from exhaust flues of furnaces, water heaters, space heaters, or other heat-producing devices.
To be sure that insulation is kept away from light fixtures and flues, use a barrier to permanently maintain clearance around these areas. Check with local building or fire officials for guidance on installation and barrier requirements.
Request to Installer:
Remove this label and give it to the consumer at completion of job.
Manufacturers of cellulose insulation may substitute the phrase “TO HELP
AVOID FIRE” for the phrase “POTENTIAL FIRE HAZARD” in the label described above. Manufacturers may also delete the word “cellulose from the first sentence of the label and may delete the word “this” from the third sentence of the label. The remainder of the label statement shall appear exactly as described above.
(b) The labeling statement required by § 1404.4(a) shall appear prominently and conspicuously on the container. The word “CAUTION” shall appear in capital letters at least one-fourth inch in height. The words “POTENTIAL FIRE HAZARD” and “REQUEST TO INSTALLER” shall appear in capital letters at least three-sixteenths inch in height. The remainder of the statement shall appear in capital letters at least three-sixteenths inch in height, with lower case letters in corresponding proportion but at least one-eighth inch in height. The labeling statement shall be enclosed within a rectangle formed with lines at least one-sixteenth inch in width. The labeling statement shall be printed with legible type in a color which contrasts with the background on which the statement is printed.
(c) To meet this requirement, manufacturers may use any type of label, including one which is pressure sensitive or glued-on, provided the label is made in such a manner that it will remain attached to the container for the expected time interval between the manufacture of the product and its installation.
[44 FR 40001, July 6, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 21701, May 23, 1984]
Pt. 1406

# PART 1406—COAL AND WOOD BURNING APPLIANCES—NOTIFICATION OF PERFORMANCE AND TECHNICAL DATA
Sec.
1406.1
Scope, purpose, and effective date.
1406.2
Background.
1406.3
Definitions.
1406.4
Requirements to provide performance and technical notice to prospective purchasers and purchasers.
1406.5
Performance and technical data to be furnished to the Commission.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2051, 2076.
§ 1406.1
Scope, purpose, and effective date.
(a)
Scope.
This part 1406 requires manufacturers, including importers, of coal and wood burning appliances, as defined in § 1406.3(a), to provide consumers with a specified notification concerning the installation, operation, and maintenance of the appliances. The notification is intended to provide consumers with technical and performance information related to the safety of the appliances. This part 1406 also requires these manufacturers to provide to the Commission a copy of the notification to consumers and a statement of the reasons supporting the manufacturer's conclusion that certain clearance distances contained in the notification are appropriate for preventing fires.
(b)
Purpose.
This regulation is intended to reduce the unreasonable risk of injury from fire associated with inadequate information provided with coal and wood burning appliances. This rule does not replace any voluntary standards applicable to these appliances or any state or local requirements applicable to the installation, use, or maintenance of such appliances that are not inconsistent with this rule. Thus, for example, a local code could require the actual installation of appliances at different distances from combustibles than those specified on the label required by this rule, and voluntary standards or local codes could require labeling or instructions in addition to those required by this rule. The fact that a product complies with this regulation is not intended to be a substitute for the performance tests and other criteria established by listing organizations whose approval is required to meet some state or local requirements applicable to these appliances.
(c)
Effective date.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section, manufacturers, including importers, of coal and wood burning appliances as defined in § 1406.3(a) must comply with this regulation with respect to stoves that are manufactured or imported after October 17, 1983, or that are first introduced into United States commerce after May 16, 1984, regardless of the date of manufacture. For the purposes of this rule, an appliance is manufactured when no further
assembly of the appliance is required (i) before shipment by the manufacturer or (ii), if the product is not so shipped, before delivery to the first purchaser. A product manufactured in the United States (U.S.) is first introduced into U.S. commerce when it is shipped by the manufacturer or delivered to the next purchaser, whichever comes first. A product manufactured outside the U.S. is first introduced into U.S. commerce when it is first brought within a U.S. port of entry.
(2) The requirements of § 1406.4(c) apply to sales catalogs and point of sale literature provided by manufacturers after May 16, 1984.
(3) Section 1406.5 is effective December 6, 1983.
(Information collection requirements contained in paragraph (a) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3041-0040)
[48 FR 21914, May 16, 1983; 48 FR 26761, June 10, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 50706, Nov. 3, 1983; 48 FR 52889, Nov. 23, 1983]
§ 1406.2
Background.
(a) Fire data analyzed by the Consumer Product Safety Commission disclose a number of incidents involving coal and wood burning appliances. Many of these cases involve improper installation of the appliances, especially where they are installed with insufficient clearances to adjacent combustibles such as walls, ceilings, floors, draperies, carpets, or furnishings. Another common installation problem involves the use of improper types of chimneys or chimney connectors and insufficient clearances between these devices and combustibles. Other incidents involve improper operation of the appliance, such as by overfiring it or using flammable liquids to start the fire. Still other incidents occur when appliances are improperly maintained and develop mechanical defects or excessive deposits of flammable creosote.
(b) After considering the available data on the causes of fires in these appliances, the Commission concludes that there is an unreasonable risk of injury associated with appliances that are sold without notifying consumers of the information they need to prevent many of these occurrences. Accordingly, the Commission has determined that disclosure of the information required by § 1406.4 is necessary to help the Commission in carrying out the purposes of the Consumer Product Safety Act of (1) helping to protect the public against unreasonable risks of injury associated with consumer products and (2) assisting consumers in evaluating the comparative safety of consumer products.
(c) The Commission has also determined that in carrying out these purposes of the act, it is necessary for manufacturers to provide to the Commission a copy of the information provided to consumers and a statement of the reasons why some of the information was selected, in accordance with § 1406.5.
[48 FR 21914, May 16, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 50706, Nov. 3, 1983]
§ 1406.3
Definitions.
For the purposes of this rule:
(a)
Coal and wood burning appliances
means fireplace stoves, room heater/fireplace stove combinations, cookstoves and ranges, and radiant and circulating heaters. It does not include central heating units, masonry fireplaces and chimneys, fireplace inserts, or factory built fireplaces (zero clearance fireplaces).
(b)
Central heating units
include boilers, furnaces, and furnace add-ons. These appliances are designed to be connected to hot water distribution or ductwork systems for heating several rooms. The furnace add-on converts an existing gas, oil, or electric heating system to one capable of using solid fuel as well as its original fuel.
(c) A
chimney
is a vertical or nearly vertical enclosure containing one or more passageways called flue passages for conveying combustion wastes to the outside atmosphere.
(d) A
chimney connector
is the stovepipe which connects the appliance flue with the chimney flue.
(e)
Cookstoves and ranges
are chimney connected solid fuel burning appliances that are used primarily for cooking. In addition to the firechamber, there may be one or more ovens or warmer compartments and several removable cooking space pothole lids. The intensity of the fire is controlled by damper and draft regulators.
(f) A
factory built fireplace
is a firechamber and chimney assembly consisting entirely of factory made parts. It is designed for component assembly without requiring field construction. These “zero clearance” units are fabricated for safe installation against combustible surfaces and for burning fireplace fuel.
(g)
Fireplace inserts
are heating units that fit into a fireplace and connect to the fireplace flue. These units function like radiant and circulating heaters.
(h) A
fireplace stove
is a freestanding, chimney-connected firechamber which is constantly open to view. It is designed to burn regular fireplace fuel and function as a decorative fireplace.
(i) A
masonry chimney
is a chimney field-constucted of solid masonry units, brick, stones, or reinforced concrete.
(j) A
masonry fireplace
is an open firechamber built into a structure along with a chimney and hearth. It is constructed of solid masonry units such as bricks, stones, or reinforced concrete.
(k)
Radiant and circulating heaters
have firechambers which may be airtight
1
or non-airtight and are available in a number of sizes, shapes, and designs. The firechamber is closed in use, but there may be a window of specially formulated glass for viewing the fire. Drafts and dampers are used to control the burning process. There may be a secondary combustion chamber, baffles, a thermostat, a blower, or other components which function to improve combustion efficiency or to control heat output. The primary function of these appliances is as space heaters. However, some have lift-off cooking pothole lids, and the top surface of most can be used for cooking. The fuel may be wood, coal, or both. Radiant heaters transmit heat primarily by direct radiation. Circulating heaters have an outer jacket surrounding the fire chamber. Air enters from the bottom, is warmed by passing over the fire chamber, and exits at the top. Movement is by natural convection or forced air circulation.
1
An airtight stove is defined as “A stove in which a large fire can be suffocated by shutting the air inlets, resulting ultimately in a large mass of unburned fuel remaining in the stove.” Jay W. Shelton,
Wood Heat Safety,
Garden Way Publishing, Charlotte, Vermont (1979), p. 160.
(l) A “room heater/fireplace stove combination” is a freestanding, chimney-connected fire chamber with doors. It is designed to be used to burn fireplace fuels with the firechamber either open or closed to view. This appliance functions as a decorative fireplace when the doors are open and as a non-airtight heater when the doors are closed.
[48 FR 21914, May 16, 1983]
§ 1406.4
Requirements to provide performance and technical notice to prospective purchasers and purchasers.
Manufacturers, including importers, of coal and wood burning appliances as defined in § 1406.3 shall give notification of performance and technical data related to performance and safety to prospective purchasers at the time of original purchase and to the first purchaser of such products for purposes other than resale, in the manner set forth below:
(a)
Written notice on appliance.
(1) The appliance shall bear a legible notice containing the following performance and technical data.
(i) Appropriate minimum clearances from unprotected combustibles to avoid the occurrence of fire.
2
The clearances shall include:
2
Appropriate distances are to be determined by the manufacturer. The Commission expects that test procedures utilized by a nationally recognized testing organization would be suitable for determining appropriate distances.
(A) Distance from the back and sides of the appliance, and the chimney connector, to walls, stated in diagrammatic form.
(B) Distance to be maintained between the chimney connector and ceilings, in either diagrammatic or written form.
(ii) Type and dimensions of floor protection, if necessary to protect combustible floors.
(iii) Proper type(s) of chimney and chimney connector to be used with the appliance. This information should include the proper designations so that the chimney and chimney connector are of suitable design and construction
to withstand the temperature of the flue gases and other probable environmental stresses and so that the inside dimensions are suitable to adequately vent the products of combustion. See Figs. 1 and 2 for examples of an acceptable designation for a chimney and chimney connector.
(iv) Identification of parts or precautions required for passing a chimney through combustible walls or ceilings or for passing a chimney connector through combustible walls. The following statement is an example of one that complies with this requirement:
Special methods are required when passing through a wall or ceiling. See instructions or building codes.
(v) A statement not to overfire the appliance, and a description of at least 1 condition which signals overfiring.
(vi) A statement of how often the chimney and chimney connector should be inspected and that it should be cleaned when necessary.
(vii) Information explaining that the appliance should be installed and used only in accordance with the manufacturer's directions and local building codes.
(viii) A direction to contact local building or fire officials about restrictions and installation inspection requirements.
(ix) A statement that furnishings and combustible materials should be kept a considerable distance from the appliance or a statement to keep furnishings and other combustibles far away.
(x) The types of fuel suitable for use in the appliance.
(xi) The name and address of the manufacturer, importer or private labeler to which the owner can write for a copy of the manufacturer's directions or for additional information, and a sufficient identification of the appliance model so that the appropriate information can be supplied.
(2) No specific wording is required on the written notice, but the information shall be printed in legible English in clear and readily understandable language. Examples of acceptable labels are given in Figs. 1 and 2, appendix I.
(3) The written notice shall be placed in a location that is conspicuous before the appliance is installed. In addition, the written information required by paragraphs (a)(1)(v), (a)(1)(vi), (a)(1)(ix), and (a)(1)(x) of this section shall be readily visible during normal use of the appliance. A label on the back of the stove would not be considered “readily visible” during normal use if the stove is suitable for installation with its back within a few feet of the wall. Locations within compartments or behind doors or panels may be readily visible during normal use if the location is readily visible when the door or panel is opened or removed and the door or panel must be opened or removed, or the compartments used, as part of the normal operating procedures for the appliance. An example of a notice format where the information required to be readily visible during normal use is separated from the remainder of the notice is given in Fig. 1, appendix I. The Commission recommends the use of this 2 label format in order to provide more consumer awareness of the operation and maintenance information after the appliance is installed, since this information would be on a simpler label that would not have installation information competing for the consumer's attention.
(4) The written notice shall be provided so that it will remain legible for the maximum expected useful life of the appliance in normal operation.
(b)
Directions.
All appliances covered by this rule shall be accompanied by directions that include the following technical and performance information:
(1) The following notice shall be placed on the first page of the document(s) containing the directions and at the beginning of the directions:
SAFETY NOTICE: IF THIS ___ IS NOT PROPERLY INSTALLED, A HOUSE FIRE MAY RESULT. FOR YOUR SAFETY, FOLLOW THE INSTALLATION DIRECTIONS. CONTACT LOCAL BUILDING OR FIRE OFFICIALS ABOUT RESTRICTIONS AND INSTALLATION INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS IN YOUR AREA.
This statement shall be conspicuous and in type that is at least as large as the largest type used on the remainder of the page, with the exception of the logo and any identification of the manufacturer, brand, model, and similar
designations. At the manufacturer's option, other information may be added to this notice.
(2) Step by step installation directions shall be provided, including all necessary information regarding parts and materials. This information shall include an explanation of the consequences which could result from failure to install the appliance properly. These directions shall include a direction to refer to the chimney and chimney connector manufacturers' instructions and local building codes for installation through combustible walls or ceilings.
(3) These directions shall also include a clearly identified section containing complete use directions, including what types of fuel(s) can be used and how to fire the unit to avoid fire hazards, and a clearly identified section containing complete maintenance directions, including how and when to clean the chimney and chimney connector. A statement that flammable liquids should not be used with the appliance shall also be included where applicable. These sections shall contain a description of the consequences that could result from failure to use or maintain the appliance properly.
(4) The directions required by paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section shall include all the information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section and shall be in legible English in readily understandable language. A recommended outline for the directions is given in appendix II.
(c)
Catalogs and point of sale literature.
Literature for the appliance that is intended to induce an immediate order or sale (such as catalogs and point of sale literature) and that is provided by the manufacturer, shall legibly and conspicuously include the information required by paragraph (a)(1)(viii) of this section and shall state the appropriate minimum clearances, to avoid the occurrence of fire, from the back and sides of the appliance to walls.

# Note:
General advertising would not be subject to this requirement.

# Appendix I to § 1406.4—Recommended Format and Wording for Written Notice
The following are examples of formats and suggested wording for the written notice required by § 1406.4(a). Information to be supplied by the manufacturer is indicated by underlined blank spaces or by asterisks. The Commission recommends the “two label” format shown in Fig. 1.
EC03OC91.049
EC03OC91.050

# Appendix II to § 1406.4—Recommended Outline for Directions
The following is a recommended outline for the directions required by § 1406.4(b). This outline is a guide and should not be considered as including all of the information that may be necessary for the proper installation, use, and maintenance of the appliance since the necessary information may vary from product to product.
“HOW TO INSTALL, USE, AND MAINTAIN YOUR ___”

# I. Safety Precautions
A. The Safety Notice required by this rule.
• “SAFETY NOTICE: IF THIS ___ IS NOT PROPERLY INSTALLED, A HOUSE FIRE MAY RESULT. FOR YOUR SAFETY, FOLLOW THE INSTALLATION DIRECTIONS. CONTACT LOCAL BUILDING OFFICIALS ABOUT RESTRICTIONS AND INSTALLATION INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS IN YOUR AREA.”
B. Statements of other important safety messages, including:
• “Creosote may build up in the chimney connector and chimney and cause a house fire. Inspect the chimney connector and chimney at least twice monthly and clean if necessary.”
• “Overfiring the appliance may cause a house fire. If a unit or chimney connector glows, you are overfiring.”
• “Never use gasoline or other flammable liquids to start or ‘freshen up’ a fire.”
• “Dispose of ashes in a metal container.”

# II. Installation Instructions
A. The parts and materials required, including:
• The size and type of chimney to which the appliance is to be connected.
• The size and thickness or gage of metal of the chimney connector.
• The thimble or type of connection through a combustible wall or ceiling.
B. The step-by-step directions for installing the appliance and its accessories, chimney connector, and chimney. The directions would include:
• Clearances from the appliance and chimney connector to combustibles,
• Methods to safely join the chimney connector to the chimney and how to pass these parts through a combustible wall or to pass the chimney through a ceiling.
• The joining of two or more parts to constitute a safe assembly such as attaching and securing the chimney connector to the appliance and to each adjoining section, and,
• Where required, the parts or materials to be used for the floor protector (hearth). The minimum areas to be covered and their relation to the appliance should be stated.

# III. Use Instructions
A. Recommendations about building and maintaining a fire, warnings against overfiring, and condition(s) that signal(s) overfiring.
B. Caution against the use and storage of flammable liquids, as follows: “Do not use gasoline, gasoline-type lantern fuel, kerosene, charcoal lighter fluid, or similar liquids to start or ‘freshen up’ a fire in this appliance. Keep these flammable liquids well away from this appliance while it is in use.”
C. Explanation about the use or nonuse of grates, irons and or other methods of supporting the fuel.
D. How to use manual or thermostatic controls.
E. Explanation about the use of any electrical assemblies including care and routing of power supply cord.
F. Caution about disposing of ashes, as follows:

# Disposal of Ashes
Ashes should be placed in a metal container with a tight fitting lid. The closed container of ashes should be placed on a noncombustible floor or on the ground, away from all combustible materials, pending final disposal. The ashes should be retained in the closed container until all cinders have thoroughly cooled.
G. Keep furnishings and other combustible materials away from appliance.

# IV. Maintenance Instructions
A. How to inspect and maintain the appliance, chimney, and chimney connector.
B. Explanation about the formation and removal of creosote buildup in the chimney connector and chimney as follows:

# Creosote Formation and Need for Removal
When wood is burned slowly, it produces tar and other vapors, which combine with moisture to form creosote. Creosote vapors condense in the relatively cool chimney flue, and creosote residue accumulates on the flue lining. When ignited, this creosote make an extremely hot fire.
The chimney connector and chimney should be inspected at least twice monthly during the heating season to determine if creosote buildup has occurred.
If creosote has accumulated, it should be removed to reduce the chance of a chimney fire.
C. Explain how to remove creosote.

# V. References
A. The name and address of the manufacturer or private labeler from which the owner can obtain additional information if needed. Include other sources of information as appropriate.
B. The manufacturer's or private labeler's catalog designations, model numbers or the equivalent for the appliance and related parts.
[48 FR 21914, May 16, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 28230, June 21, 1983]
§ 1406.5
Performance and technical data to be furnished to the Commission.
Manufacturers, including importers, of coal and wood burning appliances as defined in § 1406.3(a) shall provide to the Commission the following performance and technical data related to performance and safety.
(a)
Written notice.
Manufacturers shall provide to the Commission copies of the written notice required by § 1406.4(a). If the written notice is provided to purchasers in a way, such as by casting or stamping the notice into the stove, that makes it impractical to furnish a sample of the actual notice to the Commission, the manufacturer will provide an actual-size copy of the notice and a description of the forming process.
(b)
Directions.
Manufacturers shall provide to the Commission a copy of the directions required by § 1406.4(b).
(c)
Rationale.
Manufacturers shall provide to the Commission a statement of how the distances to combustibles required to be stated by § 1406.4(a)(1) were determined. In addition, the maufacturer will state the type of appliance, its fuel, size, and weight, and the material of which it is constructed, unless this information is included in the directions submitted under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
General.
(1) The information required to be submitted under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall be submitted for each distinct design or model of appliance manufactured. An appliance will be considered to be a distinct design or model if it differs from other appliances of the same manufacturer by functional differences such as performance, weight,
size, or capacity. Differences in cosmetic or other nonfunctional features do not require the submission of additional information.
(2) The written notice, directions, and rationale shall be provided to the Assistant Executive Director for Compliance, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207, by December 6, 1983. If there is a subsequent change in the component materials or design features of a model for which this information was previously submitted that could cause the model to require different clearances from combustibles or a different type of chimney, or if a new product is introduced into United States commerce, the required information shall be submitted within 30 days after the change or introduction.
(Approved by Office of Management and Budget under control number 3041-0040)
[48 FR 50706, Nov. 3, 1983, as amended at 62 FR 46667, Sept. 4, 1997]
Pt. 1407

# PART 1407—PORTABLE GENERATORS: REQUIREMENTS TO PROVIDE PERFORMANCE AND TECHNICAL DATA BY LABELING
Sec.
1407.1
Purpose, scope, and effective date.
1407.2
Definitions.
1407.3
Providing performance and technical data to purchasers by labeling.
Figure 1 to Part 1407—On-product carbon monoxide poisoning hazard label
Figure 2 to Part 1407—Safety alert symbol
Figure 3 to Part 1407—Carbon monoxide poisoning hazard label for package

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2076(e).

# Source:
72 FR 1450, Jan. 12, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1407.1
Purpose, scope, and effective date.
This part 1407 establishes requirements under section 27(e) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2076(e)) for manufacturers to provide consumers with a specified notification concerning the carbon monoxide poisoning hazard associated with the use of portable generators. The notification is intended to provide consumers with technical and performance information related to the safety of portable generators. This part applies to any generator manufactured or imported on or after May 14, 2007.
§ 1407.2
Definitions.
(a) The definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) apply to this part 1407.
(b) A portable generator is an internal combustion engine-driven electric generator rated no higher than 15 kilowatts and 250 volts that is intended to be moved for temporary use at a location where utility-supplied electric power is not available. It has receptacle outlets for the alternating-current (AC) output circuits, and may have alternating- or direct-current (DC) sections for supplying energy to battery charging circuits.
§ 1407.3
Providing performance and technical data to purchasers by labeling.
(a)
Notice to purchasers.
Manufacturers of portable generators shall give notification of performance and technical data related to performance and safety to prospective purchasers of such products at the time of original purchase and to the first purchaser of such product for purposes other than resale, in the manner set forth below.
(1)
On-product label.
The CO poisoning hazard label shown in fig. 1 shall be used on the product. A different representation of the generator may be substituted for accuracy if consumers are more likely to recognize the substituted representation as the generator to which this label is affixed. Alternate-language versions of this label may appear on the product in addition to the label specified in figure 1. If the product label is also provided by the manufacturer in additional language(s), it shall appear adjacent to or below the English-language version of the product label, and shall be no larger than the English-language version of the label. Versions of the product label that are in a language other than English may appear without the pictograms that appear in the English-language versions.
(i) The signal word “DANGER” shall be in letters not less than 0.15 inch (3.8 mm) high. The remaining text shall be
in type whose uppercase letters are not less than 0.1 inch (2.5 mm) high.
(ii) The signal word “DANGER” shall appear in white letters on a safety red background. The safety alert symbol shown in fig. 2 shall appear immediately before and next to the signal word and be no smaller than the height of the signal word with the base of the triangle on the same horizontal line as the base of the signal word. The solid portion of the triangle (within the lines of the triangle, around the exclamation mark) shall be white and the exclamation mark shall be safety red. The prohibition circle-slash symbols shall be opaque.
(iii) The on-product hazard label shown in fig. 1 shall be located:
(A) On a part of the portable generator that cannot be removed without the use of tools, and
(B) On a location that is prominent and conspicuous to an operator while performing at least two of the following actions: Filling the fuel tank, accessing the receptacle panel, and starting the engine.
(iv) The on-product hazard label shown in fig. 1 shall be designed to remain permanently affixed, intact, legible, and largely unfaded in the environment in which the product is expected to be operated and stored over the life of the product.
(2)
Carbon monoxide poisoning hazard label for package.
The CO poisoning hazard label shown in fig. 3 shall be affixed to the principal display panel(s) of the package, as well as the surface containing the top flaps of the package. The principal display panel(s) of the package is the portion(s) of the outer packaging that is designed to be most prominently displayed, shown, presented, or examined under conditions of retail sale. Any panel of the package that includes text in a language other than English shall also include a CO poisoning hazard label in that language. Alternate-language versions of the label, in addition to the label specified in figure 3, may also appear on the top flaps of the package as long as they are physically separate from one another. A different representation of the generator may be substituted for accuracy if consumers are more likely to recognize the substituted representation as the generator contained within the packaging.
(i) The signal word “DANGER” shall be in letters not less than 0.15 inch (3.8 mm) high. The remaining text shall be in type whose uppercase letters are not less than 0.1 inch (2.5 mm) high.
(ii) The signal word “DANGER” shall appear in white letters on a safety red background. The safety alert symbol shown in fig. 2 shall appear immediately before and next to the signal word and be no smaller than the height of the signal word with the base of the triangle on the same horizontal line as the base of the signal word. The solid portion of the triangle (within the lines of the triangle, around the exclamation mark) shall be white and the exclamation mark shall be safety red. The prohibition circle-slash symbols shall be opaque.
(b) [Reserved]
ER18JA07.006
ER18JA07.007
ER18JA07.008
[72 FR 1450, Jan. 12, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 2184, Jan. 18, 2007]
Pt. 1420

# PART 1420—REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES
Sec.
1420.1
Scope and application.
1420.2
Definitions.
1420.3
Requirements for four-wheel ATV's.
1420.4
Restrictions on three-wheel ATVs.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2089.

# Source:
73 FR 67386, Nov. 14, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1420.1
Scope and application.
This part, a consumer product safety standard, prescribes requirements for all-terrain vehicles.
[89 FR 4195, Jan. 23, 2024]
§ 1420.2
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052), the following definitions apply for purposes of this Part 1420.
(a)
All terrain vehicle or ATV
means:
(1) Any motorized, off-highway vehicle designed to travel on 3 or 4 wheels, having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering control; but
(2) Does not include a prototype of a motorized, off-highway, all-terrain vehicle that is intended exclusively for research and development purposes unless the vehicle is offered for sale.
(b)
ATV action plan
means a written plan or letter of undertaking that describes actions the manufacturer or distributor agrees to take to promote ATV safety, including rider training, dissemination of safety information, age recommendations, other policies governing marketing and sale of the ATVs, the monitoring of such sales, and other safety related measures, and that is substantially similar to the plans described under the heading “The Undertakings of the Companies” in the Commission Notice published in the
Federal Register
on September 9, 1998 (63 FR 48199-48204).
§ 1420.3
Requirements for four-wheel ATV's
(a) Each new assembled or unassembled ATV manufactured before January
1, 2025, shall comply with all applicable provisions of the American National Standard for Four-Wheel All-Terrain Vehicles (ANSI/SVIA 1-2017), ANSI-approved on June 8, 2017. Each new assembled or unassembled ATV manufactured on or after January 1, 2025, shall comply with all applicable provisions of the American National Standard for Four-Wheel All-Terrain Vehicles ANSI-approved on March 17, 2023 (ANSI/SVIA 1-2023), with the exception of Section 4.21 Owner's Manual, as to which it shall continue to comply with the ANSI/SVIA 1-2017 standard. ANSI/SVIA 1-2017 and ANSI/SVIA 1-2023 are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone: (301) 504-7479. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email:
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
The material may be obtained from the Specialty Vehicle Institute of America, 2 Jenner, Suite 150, Irvine, CA 92618-3806; telephone: 949-727-3727;
www.svia.org.
In addition, a read-only copy of ANSI/SVIA 1-2023 is available for viewing on the SVIA website at
https://svia.org/ansi-svia-1-2023/.
(b) Each ATV must be subject to an ATV action plan filed with the Commission before August 14, 2008 or subsequently filed with and approved by the Commission, and shall bear a label certifying such compliance and identifying the manufacturer, importer or private labeler and the ATV action plan to which it is subject.
(c) The ATV manufacturer or distributor shall be in compliance with all provisions of the applicable ATV action plan.
[73 FR 67386, Nov. 14, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 12200, Feb. 29, 2012; 83 FR 8340, Feb. 27, 2018; 89 FR 4195, Jan. 23, 2024; 89 FR 5767, Jan. 30, 2024]
§ 1420.4
Restrictions on three-wheel ATVs.
Until a mandatory consumer product safety standard applicable to three-wheel ATVs promulgated pursuant to the Consumer Product Safety Act is in effect, new three wheel ATVs may not be imported into or distributed in commerce in the United States.
Pt. 1450

# PART 1450—VIRGINIA GRAEME BAKER POOL AND SPA SAFETY ACT REGULATIONS
Sec.
1450.1-1450.2
[Reserved]
1450.3
Incorporation by reference.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2051-2089, 86 Stat. 1207; 15 U.S.C. 8001-8008, 121 Stat. 1794.

# Source:
75 FR 21987, Apr. 27, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§§ 1450.1-1450.2
[Reserved]
§ 1450.3
Incorporation by reference.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each swimming pool or spa drain cover manufactured, distributed, or entered into commerce in the United States shall conform to the entrapment protection standards of ANSI/APSP/ICC-16 2017, American National Standard for
Suction Outlet Fitting Assemblies (SOFA) for Use in Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs,
approved on August 18, 2017. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from the Pool
Hot Tub Alliance (formerly known as the Association of Pool
Spa Professionals), 2111 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, Virginia 22314;
http://www.apsp.org,
telephone 703-838-0083. You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to
https://www.archives.gov/federal-regster/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
(b) The CPSC standard does not require compliance with the following provisions:
(1) Section 1.1.3 of ANSI/APSP/ICC-16 2017.
(2) Sections 1.3.3.1 through 1.3.3.2 of ANSP/APSP/ICC-16 2017.
(3) Section 3.2.4 of ANSI/APSP/ICC-16 2017.
(4) Section 3.5.1 of ANSI/APSP/ICC-16 2017.
(5) Sections 3.6.1 through 3.6.4.3 of ANSI/APSP/ICC-16 2017.
(6) Section 3.7 of ANSI/APSP/ICC-16 2017.
(7) Section 9.4 of ANSI/APSP/ICC-16 2017.
[84 FR 24027, May 24, 2019]
Pt. 1460

# PART 1460—CHILDREN'S GASOLINE BURN PREVENTION ACT REGULATION
Sec.
1460.1
Scope and application.
1460.2
Definition.
1460.3
Requirements for child-resistance for closures on portable gasoline containers.

# Authority:
Sec. 2, Pub. L. 110-278, 122 Stat. 2602; and Pub. L. 116-260, div. FF, title IX, § 901(c).

# Source:
80 FR 16963, Mar. 31, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1460.1
Scope and application.
In accordance with the Children's Gasoline Burn Prevention Act, portable gasoline containers must comply with the requirements specified in § 1460.3, which are considered to be a consumer product safety rule.
§ 1460.2
Definition.
Portable fuel container
means any portable gasoline container intended for use by consumers and any receptacle for gasoline, kerosene, or diesel fuel, including any spout, cap, and other closure mechanism and component of such receptacle or any retrofit or aftermarket spout or component intended or reasonably anticipated to be for use with such receptacle, produced or distributed for sale to or use by consumers for transport of, or refueling of internal combustion engines with, gasoline, kerosene, or diesel fuel.
[87 FR 71247, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 1460.3
Requirements for child-resistance for closures on portable gasoline containers.
Each portable gasoline container manufactured on or after December 22, 2022 for sale in the United States shall conform to the child-resistance requirements for closures on portable gasoline containers specified in sections 2 through 7 of ASTM F2517-22e1. ASTM F2517-22e1,
Standard Specification for Determination of Child Resistance of Portable Fuel Containers for Consumer Use,
approved June 1, 2022 is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov,
or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at
www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.
This material may be obtained from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, PO Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone (610) 832-9585;
www.astm.org.
[87 FR 71247, Nov. 22, 2022]
Pt. 1461

# PART 1461—PORTABLE FUEL CONTAINER SAFETY ACT REGULATION
Sec.
1461.1
Scope and application.
1461.2
Definition.
1461.3
Requirements for flame mitigation devices on portable fuel containers.
1461.4
Incorporation by reference.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2056d.

# Source:
88 FR 74346, Oct. 31, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1461.1
Scope and application.
In accordance with the Portable Fuel Container Safety Act of 2020 (PFCSA), portable fuel containers must comply
with the requirements specified in § 1461.3, which are considered to be consumer product safety rules.
§ 1461.2
Definition.
The definition of portable fuel container in the PFCSA (5 U.S.C. 2056d(b)(8)) applies to this part. Specifically, a portable fuel container is defined in the PFCSA as any container or vessel (including any spout, cap, and other closure mechanism or component of such container or vessel or any retrofit or aftermarket spout or component intended or reasonably anticipated to be for use with such container)—
(a)(1) Intended for flammable liquid fuels with a flash point less than 140 degrees Fahrenheit, including gasoline, kerosene, diesel, ethanol, methanol, denatured alcohol, or biofuels;
(2) That is a consumer product with a capacity of 5 gallons or less; and
(3) That the manufacturer knows or reasonably should know is used by consumers for transporting, storing, and dispensing flammable liquid fuels.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1461.3
Requirements for flame mitigation devices on portable fuel containers.
Each portable fuel container manufactured for sale in the United States shall conform to one of the following applicable requirements.
Containers sold pre-filled.
Portable fuel containers sold pre-filled with a flammable liquid to the consumer must comply with the requirements of ASTM F3429/F3429M-24 (incorporated by reference, see § 1461.4).
(b)
Containers sold empty.
Portable fuel containers sold empty to the consumer must meet the requirements of ASTM F3326-21 (incorporated by reference, see § 1461.4). Portable fuel containers sold empty to the consumer that are classified as safety cans that meet the requirements of section 18 of ANSI/CAN/UL/ULC 30:2022 (incorporated by reference, see § 1461.4) are not required to comply with ASTM F3326-21.
[88 FR 74346, Oct. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 34106, Apr. 30, 2024]
§ 1461.4
Incorporation by reference.
Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference material is available for inspection at the Consumer Product Safety Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814; telephone (301) 504-7479, email
cpsc-os@cpsc.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from the following sources:
(a) ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; phone: (610) 832-9585; website:
www.astm.org.
(1) ASTM F3326-21,
Standard Specification for Flame Mitigation Devices on Portable Fuel Containers,
approved on September 1, 2021.
(2) ASTM F3429/F3429M-24,
Standard Specification for Performance of Flame Mitigation Devices Installed in Disposable and Pre-Filled Flammable Liquid Containers,
approved on January 15, 2024.
(b) UL Standards and Engagement, International, 151 Eastern Avenue, Bensenville, IL 60106; phone: 1-888-853-3503; website:
www.shopulstandards.com.
(1) ANSI/CAN/UL/ULC 30:2022, Standard for Safety:
Metallic and Nonmetallic Safety Cans for Flammable and Combustible Liquids,
Tenth Edition, dated April 29, 2022.
(2) [Reserved]
[88 FR 74346, Oct. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 34106, Apr. 30, 2024]

# SUBCHAPTER C—FEDERAL HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES ACT REGULATIONS
Pt. 1500

# PART 1500—HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
Sec.
1500.1
Scope of subchapter.
1500.2
Authority.
1500.3
Definitions.
1500.4
Human experience with hazardous substances.
1500.5
Hazardous mixtures.
1500.12
Products declared to be hazardous substances under section 3(a) of the act.
1500.13
Listing of “strong sensitizer” substances.
1500.14
Products requiring special labeling under section 3(b) of the act.
1500.15
Labeling of fire extinguishers.
1500.17
Banned hazardous substances.
1500.18
Banned toys and other banned articles intended for use by children.
1500.19
Misbranded toys and other articles intended for use by children.
1500.20
Labeling requirement for advertising toys and games.
1500.40
Method of testing toxic substances.
1500.41
Method of testing primary irritant substances.
1500.42
Test for eye irritants.
1500.43
Method of test for flashpoint of volatile flammable materials by Tagliabue open-cup apparatus.
1500.43a
Method of test for flashpoint of volatile flammable materials.
1500.44
Method for determining extremely flammable and flammable solids.
1500.45
Method for determining extremely flammable and flammable contents of self-pressurized containers.
1500.46
Method for determining flashpoint of extremely flammable contents of self-pressurized containers.
1500.48
Technical requirements for determining a sharp point in toys and other articles intended for use by children under 8 years of age.
1500.49
Technical requirements for determining a sharp metal or glass edge in toys and other articles intended for use by children under 8 years of age.
1500.50
Test methods for simulating use and abuse of toys and other articles intended for use by children.
1500.51
Test methods for simulating use and abuse of toys and other articles intended for use by children 18 months of age or less.
1500.52
Test methods for simulating use and abuse of toys and other articles intended for use by children over 18 but not over 36 months of age.
1500.53
Test methods for simulating use and abuse of toys and other articles intended for use by children over 36 but not over 96 months of age.
1500.81
Exemptions for food, drugs, cosmetics, and fuels.
1500.82
Exemption from full labeling and other requirements.
1500.83
Exemptions for small packages, minor hazards, and special circumstances.
1500.85
Exemptions from classification as banned hazardous substances.
1500.86
Exemptions from classification as a banned toy or other banned article for use by children.
1500.87
Children's products containing lead: inaccessible component parts.
1500.88
Exemptions from lead limits under section 101 of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act for certain electronic devices.
1500.89
Procedures and requirements for determinations regarding lead content of materials or products under section 101(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act.
1500.90
Procedures and requirements for exclusions from lead limits under section 101(b) of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act.
1500.91
Determinations regarding lead content for certain materials or products under section 101 of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act.
1500.121
Labeling requirements; prominence, placement, and conspicuousness.
1500.122
Deceptive use of disclaimers.
1500.123
Condensation of label information.
1500.125
Labeling requirements for accompanying literature.
1500.126
Substances determined to be “special hazards.”
1500.127
Substances with multiple hazards.
1500.128
Label comment.
1500.129
Substances named in the Federal Caustic Poison Act.
1500.130
Self-pressurized containers: labeling.
1500.133
Extremely flammable contact adhesives; labeling.
1500.134
Policy on first aid labeling for saline emesis.
1500.135
Summary of guidelines for determining chronic toxicity.
1500.210
Responsibility.
1500.211
Guaranty.
1500.212
Definition of guaranty; suggested forms.
1500.213
Presentation of views under section 7 of the act.
1500.214
Examinations and investigations; samples.
1500.230
Guidance for lead (Pb) in consumer products.
1500.231
Guidance for hazardous liquid chemicals in children's products.
1500.232
Statement on animal testing policy.

# Imports
1500.265
Imports; definitions.
1500.266
Notice of sampling.
1500.267
Payment for samples.
1500.268
Hearing.
1500.269
Application for authorization.
1500.270
Granting of authorization.
1500.271
Bonds.
1500.272
Costs chargeable in connection with relabeling and reconditioning inadmissible imports.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1261-1278.

# Source:
38 FR 27012, Sept. 27, 1973, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1500.1
Scope of subchapter.
Set forth in this subchapter C are the regulations of the Consumer Product Safety Commission issued pursuant to and for the implementation of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act as amended (see § 1500.3(a)(1)).
§ 1500.2
Authority.
Authority under the Federal Hazardous Substances Act is vested in the Consumer Product Safety Commission by section 30(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2079(a)).
§ 1500.3
Definitions.
(a)
Certain terms used in this part.
As used in this part:
(1)
Act
means the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (Pub. L. 86-613, 74 Stat. 372-81 (15 U.S.C. 1261-74)) as amended by:
(i) The Child Protection Act of 1966 (Pub. L. 89-756, 80 Stat. 1303-05).
(ii) The Child Protection and Toy Safety Act of 1969 (Pub. L. 91-113, 83 Stat. 187-90).
(iii) The Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-601, 84 Stat. 1670-74).
(2)
Commission
means the Consumer Product Safety Commission established May 14, 1973, pursuant to provisions of the Consumer Product Safety Act (Pub. L. 92-573, 86 Stat. 1207-33 (15 U.S.C. 2051-81)).
(b)
Statutory definitions.
Except for the definitions given in section 2 (c) and (d) of the act, which are obsolete, the definitions set forth in section 2 of the act are applicable to this part and are repeated for convenience as follows (some of these statutory definitions are interpreted, supplemented, or provided with alternatives in paragraph (c) of this section):
(1)
Territory
means any territory or possession of the United States, including the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico but excluding the Canal Zone.
(2)
Interstate commerce
means (i) commerce between any State or territory and any place outside thereof and (ii) commerce within the District of Columbia or within any territory not organized with a legislative body.
(3)
Person
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, and association.
(4)(i)
Hazardous substance
means:
(A) Any substance or mixture of substances which is toxic, corrosive, an irritant, a strong sensitizer, flammable or combustible, or generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other means, if such substance or mixture of substances may cause substantial personal injury or substantial illness during or as a proximate result of any customary or reasonably foreseeable handling or use, including reasonably foreseeable ingestion by children.
(B) Any substance which the Commission by regulation finds, pursuant to the provisions of section 3(a) of the act, meet the requirements of section 2(f)(1)(A) of the act (restated in (A) above).
(C) Any radioactive substance if, with respect to such substance as used in a particular class of article or as packaged, the Commission determines by regulation that the substance is sufficiently hazardous to require labeling in accordance with the act in order to protect the public health.
(D) Any toy or other article intended for use by children which the Commission by regulation determines, in accordance with section 3(e) of the act, presents an electrical, mechanical, or thermal hazard.
(ii)
Hazardous substance
shall not apply to pesticides subject to the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, to foods, drugs, and cosmetics subject to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, nor to substances intended for use as fuels when stored in containers and used in the heating, cooking, or refrigeration system of a house. “Hazardous substance” shall apply, however, to any article which is not itself a pesticide within the meaning of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act but which is a hazardous substance within the meaning of section 2(f)(1) of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (restated in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section) by reason of bearing or containing such a pesticide.
(iii)
Hazardous substance
shall not include any source material, special nuclear material, or byproduct material as defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and regulations issued pursuant thereto by the Atomic Energy Commission.
(5)
Toxic
shall apply to any substance (other than a radioactive substance) which has the capacity to produce personal injury or illness to man through ingestion, inhalation, or absorption through any body surface.
(6)(i)
Highly toxic
means any substance which falls within any of the following categories:
(A) Produces death within 14 days in half or more than half of a group of 10 or more laboratory white rats each weighing between 200 and 300 grams, at a single dose of 50 milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight, when orally administered; or
(B) Produces death within 14 days in half or more than half of a group of 10 or more laboratory white rats each weighing between 200 and 300 grams, when inhaled continuously for a period of 1 hour or less at an atmospheric concentration of 200 parts per million by volume or less of gas or vapor or 2 milligrams per liter by volume or less of mist or dust, provided such concentration is likely to be encountered by man when the substance is used in any reasonably foreseeable manner; or
(C) Produces death within 14 days in half or more than half of a group of 10 or more rabbits tested in a dosage of 200 milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight, when administered by continuous contact with the bare skin for 24 hours or less.
(ii) If the Commission finds that available data on human experience with any substance indicate results different from those obtained on animals in the dosages and concentrations specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, the human data shall take precedence.
(7)
Corrosive
means any substance which in contact with living tissue will cause destruction of tissue by chemical action, but shall not refer to action on inanimate surfaces.
(8)
Irritant
means any substance not corrosive within the meaning of section 2(i) of the act (restated in paragraph (b)(7) of this section) which on immediate, prolonged, or repeated contact with normal living tissue will induce a local inflammatory reaction.
(9)
Strong sensitizer
means a substance which will cause on normal living tissue through an allergic or photodynamic process a hypersensitivity which becomes evident on reapplication of the same substance and which is designated as such by the Commission. Before designating any substance as a strong sensitizer, the Commission, upon consideration of the frequency of occurrence and severity of the reaction, shall find that the substance has a significant potential for causing hypersensitivity.
(10) The terms
extremely flammable, flammable,
and
combustible
as they apply to any substances, liquid, solid, or the contents of any self-pressurized container, are defined by regulations issued by the Commission and published at § 1500.3(c)(6).
(11)
Radioactive substance
means a substance which emits ionizing radiation.
(12)
Label
means a display of written, printed, or graphic matter upon the immediate container of any substance or, in the cases of an article which is unpackaged or is not packaged in an immediate container intended or suitable for delivery to the ultimate consumer, a display of such matter directly upon the article involved or upon a tag or other suitable material affixed thereto. A requirement made by
or under authority of the act that any word, statement, or other information appear on the label shall not be considered to be complied with unless such word, statement, or other information also appears (i) on the outside container or wrapper, if any there be, unless it is easily legible through the outside container or wrapper and (ii) on all accompanying literature where there are directions for use, written or otherwise.
(13)
Immediate container
does not include package liners.
(14)
Misbranded hazardous substance
means a hazardous substance (including a toy, or other article intended for use by children, which is a hazardous substance, or which bears or contains a hazardous substance in such manner as to be susceptible of access by a child to whom such toy or other article is entrusted) intended, or packaged in a form suitable, for use in the household or by children, if the packaging or labeling of such substance is in violation of an applicable regulation issued pursuant to section 3 or 4 of the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970 or if such substance, except as otherwise provided by or pursuant to section 3 of the act (Federal Hazardous Substances Act), fails to bear a label:
(i) Which states conspicuously:
(A) The name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, distributor, or seller;
(B) The common or usual name or the chemical name (if there be no common or usual name) of the hazardous substance or of each component which contributes substantially to its hazard, unless the Commission by regulation permits or requires the use of a recognized generic name;
(C) The signal word “DANGER” on substances which are extremely flammable, corrosive, or highly toxic;
(D) The signal word “WARNING” or “CAUTION” on all other hazardous substances;
(E) An affirmative statement of the principal hazard or hazards, such as “Flammable,” “Combustible,” “Vapor Harmful,” “Causes Burns,” “Absorbed Through Skin,” or similar wording descriptive of the hazard;
(F) Precautionary measures describing the action to be followed or avoided, except when modified by regulation of the Commission pursuant to section 3 of the act;
(G) Instruction, when necessary or appropriate, for first-aid treatment;
(H) The word
Poison
for any hazardous substance which is defined as “highly toxic” by section 2(h) of the act (restated in paragraph (b)(6) of this section);
(I) Instructions for handling and storage of packages which require special care in handling or storage; and
(J) The statement (
1
) “Keep out of the reach of children” or its practical equivalent, or, (
2
) if the article is intended for use by children and is not a banned hazardous substance, adequate directions for the protection of children from the hazard; and
(ii) On which any statements required under section 2(p)(1) of the act (restated in paragraph (b)(14)(i) of this section) are located prominently and are in the English language in conspicuous and legible type in contrast by typography, layout, or color with other printed matter on the label.
Misbranded hazardous substance
also means a household substance as defined in section 2(2)(D) of the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970 if it is a substance described in section 2(f)(1) of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (restated in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A) of this section) and its packaging or labeling is in violation of an applicable regulation issued pursuant to section 3 or 4 of the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970.
(15)(i)
Banned hazardous substance
means:
(A) Any toy, or other article intended for use by children, which is a hazardous substance, or which bears or contains a hazardous substance in such manner as to be susceptible of access by a child to whom such toy or other article is entrusted; or
(B) Any hazardous substance intended, or packaged in a form suitable, for use in the household, which the Commission by regulation classifies as a “banned hazardous substance” on the basis of a finding that, notwithstanding such cautionary labeling as is or may be required under the act for that substance, the degree or nature of the hazard involved in the presence or
use of such substance in households is such that the objective of the protection of the public health and safety can be adequately served only by keeping such substance, when so intended or packaged, out of the channels of interstate commerce;
Provided,
That the Commission by regulation (
1
) shall exempt from section 2(q)(1)(A) of the act (restated in paragraph (b)(15)(i)(A) of this section) articles, such as chemistry sets, which by reason of their functional purpose require the inclusion of the hazardous substance involved, or necessarily present an electrical, mechanical, or thermal hazard, and which bear labeling giving adequate directions and warnings for safe use and are intended for use by children who have attained sufficient maturity, and may reasonably be expected, to read and heed such directions and warnings, and (
2
) shall exempt from section 2(q)(1)(A) of the act (restated in paragraph (b)(15)(i)(A) of this section), and provide for the labeling of, common fireworks (including toy paper caps, cone fountains, cylinder fountains, whistles without report, and sparklers) to the extent that the Commission determines that such articles can be adequately labeled to protect the purchasers and users thereof.
(ii) Proceedings for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of regulations pursuant to section 2(q)(1)(B) of the act (restated in paragraph (b)(15)(i)(B) of this section) shall be governed by the provisions of section 701 (e), (f), and (g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act:
Provided,
That if the Commission finds that the distribution for household use of the hazardous substance involved presents an imminent hazard to the public health, the Commission may by order published in the
Federal Register
give notice of such finding, and thereupon such substance when intended or offered for household use, or when so packaged as to be suitable for such use, shall be deemed to be a “banned hazardous substance” pending the completion of proceedings relating to the issuance of such regulations.
(16) “Electrical hazard”—an article may be determined to present an electrical hazard if, in normal use or when subjected to reasonably foreseeable damage or abuse, its design or manufacture may cause personal injury or illness by electric shock.
(17) “Mechanical hazard”—an article may be determined to present a mechanical hazard if, in normal use or when subjected to reasonably foreseeable damage or abuse, its design or manufacture presents an unreasonable risk of personal injury or illness:
(i) From fracture, fragmentation, or disassembly of the article;
(ii) From propulsion of the article (or any part or accessory thereof);
(iii) From points or other protrusions, surfaces, edges, openings, or closures;
(iv) From moving parts;
(v) From lack or insufficiency of controls to reduce or stop motion;
(vi) As a result of self-adhering characteristics of the article;
(vii) Because the article (or any part or accessory thereof) may be aspirated or ingested;
(viii) Because of instability; or
(ix) Because of any other aspect of the article's design or manufacture.
(18) “Thermal hazard”—an article may be determined to present a thermal hazard if, in normal use or when subjected to reasonably foreseeable damage or abuse, its design or manufacture presents an unreasonable risk of personal injury or illness because of heat as from heated parts, substances, or surfaces.
(c)
Certain statutory definitions interpreted, supplemented, or provided with alternatives.
The following items interpret, supplement, or provide alternatives to definitions set forth in section 2 of the act (and restated in paragraph (b) of this section):
(1) To provide flexibility as to the number of animals tested, and to emphasize
in vitro
testing methods, the following is an alternative to the definition of “highly toxic” in section 2(h) of the act (and paragraph (b)(6) of this section);
Highly toxic
means:
(i) A substance determined by the Commission to be highly toxic on the basis of human experience; and/or
(ii) A substance that produces death within 14 days in half or more than half of a group of:
(A) White rats (each weighing between 200 and 300 grams) when a single dose of 50 milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight is administered orally;
(B) White rats (each weighing between 200 and 300 grams) when a concentration of 200 parts per million by volume or less of gas or vapor, or 2 milligrams per liter by volume or less of mist or dust, is inhaled continuously for 1 hour or less, if such concentration is likely to be encountered by man when the substance is used in any reasonably foreseeable manner; and/or
(C) Rabbits (each weighing between 2.3 and 3.0 kilograms) when a dosage of 200 milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight is administered by continuous contact with the bare skin for 24 hours or less by the method described in § 1500.40.
The number of animals tested shall be sufficient to give a statistically significant result and shall be in conformity with good pharmacological practices.
(iii) A substance that produces a result of ‘highly toxic’ in any of the approved test methods described in the CPSC's animal testing policy set forth in 16 CFR 1500.232, including data from
in vitro
or
in silico
test methods that the Commission has approved; or a validated weight-of-evidence analysis comprising all of the following that are available: existing human and animal data, structure activity relationships, physicochemical properties, and chemical reactivity data.
(2) To give specificity to the definition of “toxic” in section 2(g) of the act (and restated in paragraph (b)(5) of this section), the following supplements that definition. “Toxic” applies to any substance that is “toxic” (but not “highly toxic”) on the basis of human experience. The following categories are not intended to be inclusive.
(i)
Acute toxicity. Toxic
means any substance that produces death within 14 days in half or more than half of a group of:
(A) White rats (each weighing between 200 and 300 grams) when a single dose of from 50 milligrams to 5 grams per kilogram of body weight is administered orally. Substances falling in the toxicity range between 500 milligrams and 5 grams per kilogram of body weight will be considered for exemption from some or all of the labeling requirements of the act, under § 1500.82, upon a showing that such labeling is not needed because of the physical form of the substances (solid, a thick plastic, emulsion, etc.), the size or closure of the container, human experience with the article, or any other relevant factors;
(B) White rats (each weighing between 200 and 300 grams) when an atmospheric concentration of more than 200 parts per million but not more than 20,000 parts per million by volume of gas or vapor, or more than 2 but not more than 200 milligrams per liter by volume of mist or dust, is inhaled continuously for 1 hour or less, if such concentration is likely to be encountered by man when the substance is used in any reasonably foreseeable manner; and/or
(C) Rabbits (each weighing between 2.3 and 3.0 kilograms) when a dosage of more than 200 milligrams but not more than 2 grams per kilogram of body weight is administered by continuous contact with the bare skin for 24 hours by the method described in § 1500.40.
(D) The number of animals tested shall be sufficient to give a statistically significant result and shall be in conformity with good pharmacological practices.
Toxic
also applies to any substance that can be labeled as such, based on the outcome of any of the approved test methods described in the CPSC's animal testing policy set forth in § 1500.232, including data from
in vitro
or
in silico
test methods that the Commission has approved; or a validated weight-of-evidence analysis comprising all of the following that are available: Existing human and animal data, structure activity relationships, physicochemical properties, and chemical reactivity data.
(ii)
Chronic toxicity.
A substance is toxic because it presents a chronic hazard if it falls into one of the following categories. (For additional information see the chronic toxicity guidelines at 16 CFR 1500.135.)
(A)
For Carcinogens.
A substance is toxic if it is or contains a known or probable human carcinogen.
(B)
For Neurotoxicological Toxicants.
A substance is toxic if it is or contains a known or probable human neurotoxin.
(C)
For Developmental or Reproductive Toxicants.
A substance is toxic if it is or contains a known or probable human developmental or reproductive toxicant.
(3) The definition of corrosive in section 2(i) of the act (restated in paragraph (b)(7) of this section) is interpreted to also mean the following: Corrosive means a substance that causes visible destruction or irreversible alterations in the tissue at the site of contact. A test for a corrosive substance is whether, by human experience, such tissue destruction occurs at the site of application. A substance would be considered corrosive to the skin if a weight-of-evidence analysis suggests that it is corrosive, or validated
in vitro
test method suggests that it is corrosive, or if, when tested by the
in vivo
technique described in § 1500.41, the structure of the tissue at the site of contact is destroyed or changed irreversibly in 24 hours or less. Other appropriate tests should be applied when contact of the substance with other than skin tissue is being considered. A substance could also be labeled corrosive based on the outcome of any of the approved test methods described in the CPSC's animal testing policy set forth in 16 CFR 1500.232, including data from
in vitro
or
in silico
test methods that the Commission has approved; or a validated weight-of-evidence analysis comprising all of the following that are available: Existing human and animal data, structure activity relationships, physicochemical properties, and chemical reactivity data.
(4) The definition of irritant in section 2(j) of the act (restated in paragraph (b)(8) of this section) is supplemented by the following:
Irritant
includes primary irritant to the skin, as well as substances irritant to the eye or to mucous membranes.
Primary irritant
means a substance that is not corrosive and that human experience data indicate is a primary irritant; and/or means a substance that results in an empirical score of five or more when tested by the method described in 1500.41; and/or a substance that can be considered a primary irritant based on the outcome of any of the approved test methods described in the CPSC's animal testing policy set forth in 16 CFR 1500.232, including data from
in vitro
or
in silico
test methods that the Commission has approved; or a validated weight-of-evidence analysis comprising all of the following that are available: existing human and animal data, structure activity relationships, physicochemical properties, and chemical reactivity data.
Eye irritant
means a substance that human experience data indicate is an irritant to the eye; and/or means a substance for which a positive test is obtained when tested by the method described in 1500.42; and/or means a substance that can be considered an eye irritant based on the outcome of any of the approved test methods described in the CPSC's animal testing policy set forth in 16 CFR 1500.232, including data from
in vitro
or
in silico
test methods that the Commission has approved; or a validated weight-of-evidence analysis comprising all of the following that are available: existing human and animal data, structure activity relationships, physicochemical properties, and chemical reactivity data.
(5) The definition of
strong sensitizer
in section 2(k) of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (restated in paragraph (b)(9) of this section) is supplemented by the following definitions:
(i)
Sensitizer.
A sensitizer is a substance that is capable of inducing a state of immunologically mediated hypersensitivity (including allergic photosensitivity) following a variable period of exposure to that substance. Hypersensitivity to a substance will become evident by an allergic reaction elicited upon reexposure to the same substance.
(ii)
Significant potential for causing hypersensitivity.
(A) Before designating any substance a “strong sensitizer,” the Commission shall find that the substance has significant potential for causing hypersensitivity.
Significant potential for causing hypersensitivity
is a relative determination that must be made separately for each substance. The determination may be based on documented medical evidence of hypersensitivity reactions upon subsequent
exposure to the same substance obtained from epidemiological surveys or case histories; controlled
in vivo
or
in vitro
experimental studies; susceptibility profiles (
e.g.,
genetics, age, gender, atopic status) in non-sensitized or allergic subjects; and chemical or functional properties of the substance.
(B) In determining whether a substance is a “strong” sensitizer, the Commission shall consider the available data for a number of factors, following a weight-of-evidence approach. The following factors (if available), ranked in descending order of importance, should be considered: well-conducted clinical and diagnostic studies, epidemiological studies, with a preference for general population studies over occupational studies, well-conducted animal studies, well-conducted
in vitro
test studies, cross-reactivity data, and case histories.
(C) Additional consideration may be given to Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships (QSARs),
in silico
data, specific human sensitization threshold values, other data on potency and sensitizer bioavailability, if data are available and the methods validated. Bioavailability is the dose of the allergen available to interact with a tissue. Bioavailability is a reflection of how well the skin or another organ can absorb the allergen and the actual penetrating ability of the allergen, including factors such as size and composition of the chemical.
(D) Criteria for a “well-conducted” study would include: validated outcomes, relevant dosing, route of administration, and use of appropriate controls. Studies should be carried out according to national and/or international test guidelines and according to good laboratory practice (GLP), compliance with good clinical practice (GCP), and good epidemiological practice (GEP).
(E) Before the Commission designates any substance as a “strong” sensitizer, frequency of occurrence and range of severity of reactions in exposed subpopulations having average or high susceptibility will be considered. The minimal severity of a reaction for the purpose of designating a material as a “strong sensitizer” is a clinically important reaction. A clinically important reaction would be considered one with a significant impact on quality of life. Consideration should be given to the location of the hypersensitivity response, such as the face, hands, and feet as well as persistence of clinical manifestations. For example, strong sensitizers may produce substantial illness, including any or all of the following: substantial physiological effects, such as discomfort and distress, substantial hardship, functional or structural impairment, persistent morbidity, or in rare cases, mortality.
(iii)
Normal living tissue.
The allergic hypersensitivity reaction occurs in normal living tissues, including the skin, mucous membranes (
e.g.,
ocular, oral), and other organ systems, such as the respiratory tract and gastrointestinal tract, either singularly or in combination, following sensitization by contact, ingestion, or inhalation.
(6) The Consumer Product Safety Commission, by the regulations published in this section, defines the terms
extremely flammable, flammable,
and
combustible,
appearing in section 2(1) of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, as follows:
(i) The term
extremely flammable
shall apply to any substance which has a flashpoint at or below 20 °F (−6.7 °C) as determined by the test method described at § 1500.43a, except that, any mixture having one component or more with a flashpoint higher than 20 °F (−6.7 °C) which comprises at least 99 percent of the total volume of the mixture is not considered to be an extremely flammable substance.
(ii) The term
flammable
shall apply to any substance having a flashpoint above 20 °F (−6.7 °C) and below 100 °F (37.8 °C), as determined by the method described at § 1500.43a, except that:
(A) Any mixture having one component or more with a flashpoint at or above 100 °F (37.8 °C) which comprises at least 99 percent of the total volume of the mixture is not considered to be a flammable substance; and
(B) Any mixture containing 24 percent or less of water miscible alcohols, by volume, in aqueous solution is not considered to be flammable if the mixture does not present a significant flammability hazard when used by consumers.
(iii) The term
combustible
shall apply to any substance having a flashpoint at or above 100 °F (37.8 °C) to and including 150 °F (65.6 °C) as determined by the test method described at § 1500.43a, except that:
(A) Any mixture having one component or more with a flashpoint higher than 150 °F (65.6 °C) which comprises at least 99 percent of the total volume of the mixture is not considered to be a combustible hazardous substance; and
(B) Any mixture containing 24 percent or less of water miscible alcohols, by volume, in aqueous solution is not considered to be combustible if the mixture does not present a significant flammability hazard when used by consumers.
(iv) To determine flashpoint temperatures for purposes of enforcing and administering requirements of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act applicable to “extremely flammable,” “flammable,” and “combustible” hazardous substances, the Commission will follow the procedures set forth in § 1500.43a. However, the Commission will allow manufacturers and labelers of substances and products subject to those requirements to rely on properly conducted tests using the Tagliabue open-cup method which was in effect prior to the issuance of § 1500.43a (as published at 38 FR 27012, September 27, 1973, and set forth below), and the defintions of the terms “extremely flammable,” “flammable,” and “combustible” in this section before its amendment (as published at 38 FR 27012, September 27, 1983, and amended 38 FR 30105, November 1, 1973, set forth in the note following this section) if all of the following conditions are met:
(A) The substance or product was subject to and complied with the requirements of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act for “extremely flammable,” “flammable,” or “combustible” hazardous substances before the effective date of § 1500.43a; and
(B) No change has been made to the formulation or labeling of such substance or product after the effective date of § 1500.43a, prescribing a closed-cup test apparatus and procedure.
(v)
Extremely flammable solid
means a solid substance that ignites and burns at an ambient temperature of 80 °F or less when subjected to friction, percussion, or electrical spark.
(vi)
Flammable solid
means a solid substance that, when tested by the method described in § 1500.44, ignites and burns with a self-sustained flame at a rate greater than one-tenth of an inch per second along its major axis.
(vii)
Extremely flammable contents of self-pressurized container
means contents of a self-pressurized container that, when tested by the method described in § 1500.45, a flashback (a flame extending back to the dispenser) is obtained at any degree of valve opening and the flashpoint, when tested by the method described in § 1500.43a is less than 20 °F (−6.7 °C).
(viii)
Flammable contents of self-pressurized container
means contents of a self-pressurized container that, when tested by the method described in § 1500.45, a flame projection exceeding 18 inches is obtained at full valve opening, or flashback (a flame extending back to the dispenser) is obtained at any degree of valve opening.
(7) The definition of
hazardous substance
in section 2(f)(1)(A) of the act (restated in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A) of this section) is supplemented by the following definitions or interpretations or terms used therein:
(i) A substance or mixture of substances that “generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other means” is a hazardous substance:
(A) If it explodes when subjected to an electrical spark, percussion, or the flame of a burning paraffin candle for 5 seconds or less.
(B) If it expels the closure of its container, or bursts its container, when held at or below 130 °F. for 2 days or less.
(C) If it erupts from its opened container at a temperature of 130 °F. or less after having been held in the closed container at 130 °F. for 2 days.
(D) If it comprises the contents of a self-pressurized container.
(ii)
Substantial personal injury or illness
means any injury or illness of a significant nature. It need not be severe or serious. What is excluded by the word “substantial” is a wholly insignificant or negligible injury or illness.
(iii)
Proximate result
means a result that follows in the course of events without an unforeseeable, intervening, independent cause.
(iv)
Reasonably foreseeable handling or use
includes the reasonably foreseeable accidental handling or use, not only by the purchaser or intended user of the product, but by all others in a household, especially children.
(8) The definition of “radioactive substance” in section 2(m) of the act (restated in paragraph (b)(11) of this section) is supplemented by the following:
Radioactive substance
means a substance which, because of nuclear instability, emits electromagnetic and/or particulate radiation capable of producing ions in its passage through matter. Source materials, special nuclear material, and byproduct materials described in section 2(f)(3) of the act are exempt.
(9) In the definition of “label” in section 2(n) of the act (restated in paragraph (b)(12) of this section), a provision stipulates that words, statements, or other information required to be on the label must also appear on all accompanying literature where there are directions for use, written or otherwise. To make this provision more specific, “accompanying literature” is interpreted to mean any placard, pamphlet, booklet, book, sign, or other written, printed, or graphic matter or visual device that provides directions for use, written or otherwise, and that is used in connection with the display, sale, demonstration, or merchandising of a hazardous substance intended for or packaged in a form suitable for use in the household or by children.
(10) The definition of “misbranded hazardous substance” in section 2(p) of this act (restated in paragraph (b)(14) of this section) is supplemented by the following definitions or interpretations of terms used therein:
(i)
Hazardous substances intended, or packaged in a form suitable, for use in the household
means any hazardous substance, whether or not packaged, that under any customary or reasonably foreseeable condition of purchase, storage, or use may be brought into or around a house, apartment, or other place where people dwell, or in or around any related building or shed including, but not limited to, a garage, carport, barn, or storage shed. The term includes articles, such as polishes or cleaners, designed primarily for professional use but which are available in retail stores, such as hobby shops, for nonprofessional use. Also included are items, such as antifreeze and radiator cleaners, that although principally for car use may be stored in or around dwelling places. The term does not include industrial supplies that might be taken into a home by a serviceman. An article labeled as, and marketed solely for, industrial use does not become subject to this act because of the possibility that an industrial worker may take a supply for his own use. Size of unit or container is not the only index of whether the article is suitable for use in or around the household; the test shall be whether under any reasonably foreseeable condition of purchase, storage, or use the article may be found in or around a dwelling.
(ii)
Conspicuously
in section 2(p)(1) of the act and
prominently
and
conspicuous
in section 2(p)(2) of the act mean that, under customary conditions of purchase, storage, and use, the required information shall be visible, noticeable, and in clear and legible English. Some factors affecting a warning's prominence and conspicuousness are: Location, size of type, and contrast of printing against background. Also bearing on the effectiveness of a warning might be the effect of the package contents if spilled on the label.

# Note:
The definitions of
extremely flammable, flammable,
and
combustible
hazardous substances set forth above in paragraphs (b)(10) and (c)(6) are effective August 10, 1987. The definitions remaining in effect until August 10, 1987, as published at 38 FR 27012, Sept. 27, 1973, and amended at 38 FR 30105, Nov. 1, 1973, are set forth below. Manufacturers and labelers of products subject to the Federal Hazardous Substances Act may continue to use these definitions for labeling of those products under the conditions set forth in § 1500.3(c)(6)(iv), as amended.
(b)(10)
Extremely flammable
shall apply to any substance which has a flashpoint at or below 20 °F. as determined by the Tagliabue Open Cup Tester;
flammable
shall apply to any substance which has a flashpoint of above 20 °F., to and including 80 °F., as determined by the Tagliabue Open Cup Tester; and
combustible
shall apply to any substance
which has a flashpoint above 80 °F. to and including 150 °F., as determined by the Tagliabue Open Cup Tester; except that the flammability or combustibility of solids and of the contents of self-pressurized containers shall be determined by methods found by the Commission to be generally applicable to such materials or containers, respectively, and established by regulations issued by the Commission, which regulations shall also define the terms
flammable, combustible,
and
extremely flammable
in accord with such methods.
(c)(6)(i)
Extremely flammable
means any substance that has a flashpoint at or below 20 °F. as determined by the method described in § 1500.43.
(ii)
Flammable
means any substance that has a flashpoint of above 20 °F., to and including 80 °F., as determined by the method described in § 1500.43.
[38 FR 27012, Sept. 27, 1973, as amended at 38 FR 30105, Nov. 1, 1973; 49 FR 22465, May 30, 1984; 51 FR 28536, Aug. 8, 1986; 51 FR 29096, Aug. 14, 1986; 51 FR 30209, Aug. 25, 1986; 57 FR 46669, Oct. 9, 1992; 77 FR 73293, Dec. 10, 2012; 79 FR 8831, Feb. 14, 2014; 83 FR 8341, Feb. 27, 2018]
§ 1500.4
Human experience with hazardous substances.
(a) Reliable data on human experience with any substance should be taken into account in determining whether an article is a “hazardous substance” within the meaning of the act. When such data give reliable results different from results with animal data, the human experience takes precedence.
(b) Experience may show that an article is more or less toxic, irritant, or corrosive to man than to test animals. It may show other factors that are important in determining the degree of hazard to humans represented by the substance. For example, experience shows that radiator antifreeze is likely to be stored in the household or garage and likely to be ingested in significant quantities by some persons. It also shows that a particular substance in liquid form is more likely to be ingested than the same substance in a paste or a solid and that an aerosol is more likely to get into the eyes and the nasal passages than a liquid.
§ 1500.5
Hazardous mixtures.
For a mixture of substances, the determination of whether the mixture is a “hazardous substance” as defined by section 2(f) of the act (repeated in § 1500.3(b)(4)) should be based on the physical, chemical, and pharmacological characteristics of the mixture. A mixture of substances may therefore be less hazardous or more hazardous than its components because of synergistic or antagonistic reactions. It may not be possible to reach a fully satisfactory decision concerning the toxic, irritant, corrosive, flammable, sensitizing, or pressure-generating properties of a substance from what is known about its components or ingredients. The mixture itself should be tested.
§ 1500.12
Products declared to be hazardous substances under section 3(a) of the act.
(a) The Commission finds that the following articles are hazardous substances within the meaning of the act because they are capable of causing substantial personal injury or substantial illness during or as a proximate result of any customary or reasonably foreseeable handling or use:
(1) Charcoal briquettes and other forms of charcoal in containers for retail sale and intended for cooking or heating.
(2) Metal-cored candlewicks that have a lead content of more than 0.06 percent of the total weight of the metal core, and candles made with such wicks.
(b) [Reserved]
[38 FR 27012, Sept. 27, 1973, as amended at 68 FR 19147, Apr. 18, 2003]
§ 1500.13
Listing of “strong sensitizer” substances.
On the basis of frequency of occurrence and severity of reaction information, the Commission finds that the following substances have a significant potential for causing hypersensitivity and therefore meet the definition for “strong sensitizer” in section 2(k) of the act (repeated in § 1500.3(b)(9)):
(a) Paraphenylenediamine and products containing it.
(b) Powdered orris root and products containing it.
(c) Epoxy resins systems containing in any concentration ethylenediamine, diethylenetriamine, and diglycidyl ethers of molecular weight of less than 200.
(d) Formaldehyde and products containing 1 percent or more of formaldehyde.
(e) Oil of bergamot and products containing 2 percent or more of oil of bergamot.
§ 1500.14
Products requiring special labeling under section 3(b) of the act.
(a) Human experience, as reported in the scientific literature and to the Poison Control Centers and the National Clearing House for Poison Control Centers, and opinions of informed medical experts establish that the following substances are hazardous:
(1) Diethylene glycol and mixtures containing 10 percent or more by weight of diethylene glycol.
(2) Ethylene glycol and mixtures containing 10 percent or more by weight of ethylene glycol.
(3) Products containing 5 percent or more by weight of benzene (also known as benzol) and products containing 10 percent or more by weight of toluene (also known as toluol), xylene (also known as xylol), or petroleum distillates such as kerosine, mineral seal oil, naphtha, gasoline, mineral spirits, stoddard solvent, and related petroleum distillates.
(4) Methyl alcohol (methanol) and mixtures containing 4 percent or more by weight of methyl alcohol (methanol).
(5) Turpentine (including gum turpentine, gum spirits of turpentine, steam-distilled wood turpentine, sulfate wood turpentine, and destructively distilled wood turpentine) and mixtures containing 10 percent or more by weight of such turpentine.
(b) The Commission finds that the following substances present special hazards and that, for these substances, the labeling required by section 2(p)(1) of the act is not adequate for the protection of the public health. Under section 3(b) of the act, the following specific label statements are deemed necessary to supplement the labeling required by section 2(p)(1) of the act:
(1)
Diethylene glycol.
Because diethylene glycol and mixtures containing 10 percent or more by weight of diethylene glycol are commonly marketed, stored, and used in a manner increasing the possibility of accidental ingestion, such products shall be labeled with the signal word “warning” and the statement “Harmful if swallowed.”
(2)
Ethylene glycol.
Because ethylene glycol and mixtures containing 10 percent or more by weight of ethylene glycol are commonly marketed, stored, and used in a manner increasing the possibility of accidental ingestion, such products shall be labeled with the signal word “warning” and the statement “Harmful or fatal if swallowed.”
(3)
Benzene, toluene, xylene, petroleum distillates.
(i) Because inhalation of the vapors of products containing 5 percent or more by weight of benzene may cause blood dyscrasias, such products shall be labeled with the signal word “danger,” the statement of hazard “Vapor harmful,” the word “poison,” and the skull and crossbones symbol. If the product contains 10 percent or more by weight of benzene, it shall bear the additional statement of hazard “Harmful or fatal if swallowed” and the additional statement “Call physician immediately.”
(ii) Because products containing 10 percent or more by weight of toluene, xylene, or any of the other substances listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section may be aspirated into the lungs, with resulting chemical pneumonitis, pneumonia, and pulmonary edema, such products shall be labeled with the signal word “danger,” the statement or hazard “Harmful or fatal if swallowed,” and the statement “Call physician immediately.”
(iii) Because inhalation of the vapor of products containing 10 percent or more by weight of toluene or xylene may cause systemic injury, such products shall bear the statement of hazard “Vapor harmful” in addition to the statements prescribed in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(4)
Methyl alcohol
(
methanol
). Because death and blindness can result from the ingestion of methyl alcohol, the label for this substance and for mixtures containing 4 percent or more by weight
of this substance shall include the signal word “danger,” the additional word “poison,” and the skull and crossbones symbol. The statement of hazard shall include “Vapor harmful” and “May be fatal or cause blindness if swallowed.” The label shall also bear the statement “Cannot be made nonpoisonous.”
(5)
Turpentine.
Because turpentine (including gum turpentine, gum spirits of turpentine, steam-distilled wood turpentine, sulfate wood turpentine, and destructively distilled wood turpentine) and products containing 10 percent or more by weight of such turpentine, in addition to oral toxicity resulting in systemic poisoning, may be aspirated into the lungs with resulting chemical pneumonitis, pneumonia, and pulmonary edema, such products shall be labeled with the signal word “danger” and the statement of hazard “Harmful or fatal if swallowed.”
(6)
Charcoal.
Charcoal briquettes and other forms of charcoal in containers for retail sale and intended for cooking or heating.
(i)(A) Because inhalation of the carbon monoxide produced by burning charcoal indoors or in confined areas may cause serious injury or death, containers of such products packaged before November 3, 1997, shall bear the following borderlined statement:
WARNING: Do Not Use for Indoor Heating or Cooking Unless Ventilation Is Provided for Exhausting Fumes to Outside. Toxic Fumes May Accumulate and Cause Death
(B) For bags of charcoal packaged before November 3, 1997, the statement specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section shall appear within a heavy borderline in a color sharply contrasting to that of the background, on both front and back panels in the upper 25 percent of the panels of the bag at least 2 inches below the seam, and at least 1 inch above any reading material or design elements in type size as follows: The signal word “WARNING” shall appear in capital letters at least three-eighths inch in height; the remaining text of the warning statement shall be printed in letters at least three-sixteenths inch in height.
(ii)(A) Because inhalation of the carbon monoxide produced by burning charcoal indoors or in confined areas can cause serious injury or death, containers of such products packaged on or after November 3, 1997, shall bear the following borderlined label.
ER03MY96.051
(B) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(C) of this section, the following requirements apply to bags of charcoal subject to paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(A) of this section. The label specified in paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(A) of this section shall appear within a heavy borderline, in a color sharply contrasting to that of the background, on both the front and back panels in the upper 25 percent of the panels of the bag, and with the outer edge of the borderline at least 2.54 cm (1 inch) below the seam and at least 2.54 cm (1 inch) above any other reading material or design elements. The signal word “WARNING” shall be in bold capital letters in at least 7.14 mm (
9/32
inch)
type. The remaining text of the warning statement shall be in at least 4.763 mm (
3/16
inch) type. The phrase “CARBON MONOXIDE HAZARD” shall be in bold. This phrase and the word “NEVER” shall be in all capital letters. The lettering shall have a strokewidth-to-height ratio of 1:6 to 1:8. The label shall be at least 50.8 mm (2 inches) high and 147.5 mm (5
13/16
inches) wide. The label's lettering, spacing between the bottom of the letters of one line and the top of the letter of the next line, and pictogram shall have the size relation to each other and to the remainder of the label shown in paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(A) of this section.
(C) For bags of charcoal subject to paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(A) of this section that are 6 inches or less wide, the minimum label height may be reduced to 38 mm (1.5 inches) and the minimum width may be reduced to 139.7 mm (5.5 inches). The signal word “WARNING” shall be in capital letters in at least 6.32 mm (0.249 inch) type. The remaining text of the warning shall be in at least 4.23 mm (0.166 inch) type. All other requirements of paragraphs 6(b)(ii) (A) and (B) of this section shall apply to these bags.
(7)
Fireworks devices.
Because of the special hazards presented by fireworks devices if not used in a certain manner, the following listed fireworks devices shall be labeled as indicated:
(i)
Fountains.

# Warning (or Caution)
FLAMMABLE (or EMITS SHOWERS OF SPARKS, if more descriptive).
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Place on level surface.
Light fuse and get away.
(ii)
California candles.

# Warning (or Caution) Emits Showers of Sparks
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Hold in hand at bottom of tube.
Point away from body so that neither end points toward body.
(iii)
Spike and handle cylindrical fountains.
(A)
Spike fountains.

# Warning (or Caution) Emits Showers of Sparks
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Stick firmly in ground in an upright position.
Do not hold in hand.
Light fuse and get away.
(B)
Handle fountains.

# Warning (or Caution) Emits Showers of Sparks
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Hold in hand—point away from body.
Light fuse.
(iv)
Roman Candles.

# Warning (or Caution) Shoots Flaming Balls
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Stick butt end in ground.
Do not hold in hand.
Light fuse and get away.
(v)
Rockets with sticks.

# Warning (or Caution) Flammable
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Place in wooden trough or iron pipe at 75° angle, pointing away from people or flammable material.
Do not hold in hand.
Light fuse and get away.
(vi)
Wheels.

# Warning (or Caution) Flammable (or Emits Showers of Sparks, if More Descriptive)
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Attach securely by means of a nail through the hole (or place on hard flat surface, for ground spinners).
Light fuse and get away.
(vii)
Illuminating torches.

# Warning (or Caution) Flammable (or Emits Showers of Sparks, if More Descriptive)
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Hold in hand—point away from body, clothing, or other flammable material (or place upright on level ground. Do not hold in hand, if more descriptive).
Light fuse (or light fuse and get away, if more descriptive).
(viii)
Sparklers.
On the front and back panels:

# Warning (or Caution) Flammable
On the side, front, back, top, or bottom panel.

# Caution
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Do not touch glowing wire (or do not touch hot plastic, wood, etc., if more descriptive).
Hold in hand with arm extended away from body.
Keep burning end or sparks away from wearing apparel or other flammable material.
(ix)
Mines and shells.

# Warning (or Caution) Emits Showers of Sparks (or Shoots Flaming Balls, if More Descriptive)
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Place on hard smooth surface (or place upright on level ground, if more descriptive).
Do not hold in hand.
Light fuse and get away.
(x)
Whistles without report.

# Warning (or Caution) Flammable
SHOOTS WHISTLE IN AIR (if applicable)
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Do not hold in hand.
Light fuse and get away.
(xi)
Toy smoke devices and flitter devices.

# Warning (or Caution) Flammable (or Emits Showers of Sparks, if More Descriptive)
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Do not hold in hand.
Light fuse and get away.
(xii)
Helicopter-type rockets.

# Warning (or Caution) Flammable (or Emits Showers of Sparks, if More Descriptive)
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
For outdoor use only.
Place on hard, open surface.
Light fuse and get away.
(xiii)
Party poppers.

# Warning (or Caution) Flammable
Use only under [close] adult supervision. (Use of the word close is optional.)
Do not point either end toward face or other person.
Hold in hand—jerk string.
(xiv)
