(b) NOAA shall acknowledge receipt of the grantee's request within the ten (10) working days of receipt of the correspondence. This notification shall indicate NOAA's decision regarding the request; or indicate a time-frame within which a decision will be made.

# Subpart J—Allocation of Section 306 Program Administration Grants
§ 923.110
Allocation formula.
(a) As required by subsection 306(a), the Secretary may make grants to any coastal state for the purpose of administering that state's management program, if the state matches any such grant according to the following ratios of Federal-to-state contributions for the applicable fiscal year:
(1) For those states for which programs were approved prior to enactment of the Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990, 1 to 1 for any fiscal year.
(2) For programs approved after enactment of the Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990, 4 to 1 for the first fiscal year, 2.3 to 1 for the second fiscal year, 1.5 to 1 for the third fiscal year, and 1 to 1 for each fiscal year thereafter.
(3) As required by subsection 306(b), the Secretary may make a grant to a coastal state under subsection 306(a) only if the Secretary finds that the management program of the coastal state meets all applicable requirements of this title and has been approved in accordance with subsection 306(d).
(4) As required by subsection 306(c), grants under this section shall be allocated to coastal states under approved programs based on rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary which shall take into account the extent and nature of the shoreline and area covered by the program, population of the area, and other relevant factors. The Secretary shall establish, after consulting with the coastal states, maximum and minimum grants for any fiscal year to promote equity between coastal states and effective coastal management.
(b)
Minimum/maximum allocations.
The Assistant Administrator shall establish minimum and maximum state allocations annually, after consultation with the coastal states.
(c)
Allocation formula factors and weighting.
Each State eligible to receive a financial assistance award shall be allocated an amount of the total available Federal funding based on:
(1) A minimum share (established by the Assistant Administrator) of the total funding available for allocation to eligible State coastal management programs, plus
(2) A proportionate share of the remainder to be divided as follows:
(i) Sixty percent will be allocated based on each eligible State's proportionate share of the length of tidal shoreline and/or Great Lake shoreline mileage of all participating States
based on the most recently available data from or accepted by the National Ocean Survey, and
(ii) Forty percent will be allocated on each eligible State's proportionate share of the aggregate population of all coastal counties contained in whole or in part within the designated coastal boundary of all eligible State coastal programs based on official data or the most recent U.S. census.
(3) Should any State's base allocation exceed the maximum established by the Assistant Administrator, the excess amount shall be subtracted from the established maximum and redistributed proportionately among those eligible States with allocations not exceeding the established maximum.
(d)
Use of the allocation formula.
The allocation formula shall be used to establish base level allocations for each State coastal management program eligible to receive Federal funding.
(e)
Adjustment for phase down of Federal funding.
The Assistant Administrator may adjust base level allocations as necessary to implement a phase down of Federal financial support. Any such adjustment shall be implemented in a manner which gives some priority to recently approved State coastal management programs. Options for implementation of a phase down will be submitted to the States for review and comment.
(f)
Calculation of financial assistance award levels.
Actual financial assistance award levels will be set from base level allocations, any adjustments under paragraph (e) above, and in accordance with the provisions of Section 312(c) and (d).
(Secs. 306 and 317 of the Coastal Zone Management Act)
[47 FR 21021, May 17, 1982, as amended at 59 FR 27985, May 31, 1994. Redesignated at 61 FR 33818, June 28, 1996]

# Subpart K—Coastal Zone Enhancement Grants Program

# Authority:
Section 309 of the Coastal Zone Management Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1456).

# Source:
57 FR 31116, July 14, 1992, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 61 FR 33818, June 28, 1996.
§ 923.121
General.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to set forth the criteria and procedures for awarding coastal zone enhancement grants under section 309 of the Coastal Zone Management Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1456). This subpart describes the criteria States must address in developing and implementing coastal zone enhancement objectives, the procedures for allocating section 309 funds between weighted formula and individual review of proposals of special merit, how the amount of section 309 weighted formula grants will be determined, the criteria NOAA will use to evaluate and rank individual proposals of special merit, and the procedures for applying for financial assistance under section 309. This subpart also allows use of section 309 funds for implementation of program changes for up to 2 fiscal years following the fiscal year in which a program change was approved.
(b) A coastal State with an approved program under section 306 of the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1455), is eligible for grants under this subpart if the State meets the following requirements:
(1) The State must have a NOAA approved Assessment and Strategy, submitted in accordance with NOAA guidance and 923.128;
(2) The State must be found to be adhering to its approved program and must be making satisfactory progress in performing grant tasks under section 306, as indicated by not being under interim or final sanctions; and
(3) The State must be making satisfactory progress in carrying out its previous year's award under section 309.
(c) If the Assistant Administrator finds that a State is not undertaking the actions committed to under the terms of a section 309 grant, the Assistant Administrator shall suspend the State's eligibility for future funding under this section for at least one year.
(d) A State's eligibility for future funding under this section will be restored after the State demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Assistant Administrator, that it will conform with the requirements under this part.
(e) Funds awarded to States under section 309 are for the enhancement of
existing coastal zone management programs. A State which reduces overall State financial support for its CZM program as a result of having been awarded section 309 funding may lose eligibility for funding under section 309 in subsequent years.
(f) All applications for funding under section 309 of the CZMA, as amended, including proposed work programs, funding priorities and funding awards, are subject to the administrative discretion of the Assistant Administrator and any additional NOAA guidance.
(g) Grants awarded under section 309 may be used:
(1) To support up to 100 percent of the allowable costs of approved projects under section 309 of the CZMA, as amended; or
(2) To implement program changes approved by the Secretary for up to two fiscal years following the fiscal year in which a program change was approved.
(h) All application forms are to be requested from and submitted to: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, Coastal Programs Division, 1305 East-West Highway (N/ORM3), Silver Spring, MD 20910.
[57 FR 31116, July 14, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 33818, June 28, 1996; 62 FR 12541, Mar. 17, 1997]
§ 923.122
Objectives.
(a) The objective of assistance provided under this part is to encourage each State with a federally-approved coastal management program to continually improve its program in specified areas of national importance. The Secretary is authorized to make grants to a coastal State for the development and submission for Federal approval of program changes that support attainment of one or more coastal zone enhancement objectives.
(b) As required by section 309(a) of the Act, for purposes of this part, the term
coastal zone enhancement objective
means any of the following objectives:
(1) Protection, restoration, or enhancement of the existing coastal wetlands base, or creation of new coastal wetlands.
(2) Preventing or significantly reducing threats to life and destruction of property by eliminating development and redevelopment in high-hazard areas, managing development in other hazard areas, and anticipating and managing the effects of potential sea level rise and Great Lakes level rise.
(3) Attaining increased opportunities for public access, taking into account current and future public access needs, to coastal areas of recreational, historical, aesthetic, ecological, or cultural value.
(4) Reducing marine debris entering the Nation's coastal and ocean environment by managing uses and activities that contribute to the entry of such debris.
(5) Development and adoption of procedures to assess, consider, and control cumulative and secondary impacts of coastal growth and development, including the collective effect on various individual uses or activities on coastal resources, such as coastal wetlands and fishery resources.
(6) Preparing and implementing special area management plans for important coastal areas.
(7) Planning for the use of ocean resources.
(8) Adoption of procedures and enforceable policies to help facilitate the siting of energy facilities and Government facilities and energy-related activities and Government activities which may be of greater than local significance.
(9) Adoption of procedures and policies to evaluate and facilitate the siting of public and private aquaculture facilities in the coastal zone, which will enable States to formulate, administer, and implement strategic plans for marine aquaculture.
[57 FR 31116, July 14, 1992. Redesignated at 61 FR 33818, June 28, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 12541, Mar. 17, 1997]
§ 923.123
Definitions.
(a)
Program change
means “routine program change” as defined in 15 CFR 923.84 and “amendment” as defined in 15 CFR 923.80, and includes the following:
(1) A change to coastal zone boundaries that will improve a State's ability to achieve one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives.
(2) New or revised authorities, including statutes, regulations, enforceable policies, administrative decisions, executive orders, and memoranda of agreement/understanding, that will improve a State's ability to achieve one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives.
(3) New or revised local coastal programs and implementing ordinances that will improve a State's ability to achieve one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives.
(4) New or revised coastal land acquisition, management and restoration programs that improve a State's ability to attain one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives.
(5) New or revised Special Area Management Plans or plans for Areas of Particular Concern (APC), including enforceable policies and other necessary implementing mechanisms or criteria and procedures for designating and managing APCs that will improve a State's ability to achieve one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives.
(6) New or revised guidelines, procedures and policy documents which are formally adopted by a State and provide specific interpretations of enforceable CZM policies to applicants, local governments and other agencies that will result in meaningful improvements in coastal resource management and that will improve a State's ability to attain one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives.
(b)
Assessment
means a public document, prepared by a State and approved by NOAA in accordance with guidance on Assessments and Strategies issued by NOAA (hereafter referred to as the guidance
1
), that identifies the State's priority needs for improvement with regard to the coastal zone enhancement objectives. The Assessment determines the extent to which problems and opportunities exist with regard to each of the coastal zone enhancement objectives and the effectiveness of efforts to address those problems. The Assessment includes the factual basis for NOAA and the States to determine the priority needs for improvement of management programs in accordance with this part.
1
NOAA guidance is available from the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, Coastal Programs Division, 1305 East-West Highway (N/ORM3), Silver Spring, MD 20910.
(c)
Strategy
means a comprehensive, multi-year statement of goals and the methods for their attainment, prepared by a State in accordance with NOAA guidance and these regulations and approved by NOAA, that sets forth the specific program changes the State will seek to achieve in one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives. The Strategy will address only the priority needs for improvement identified by the Assistant Administrator, after careful consultation with the State. The strategy will include specific task descriptions, cost estimates and milestones, as appropriate.
(d)
Weighted Formula Project
means a project or task for which NOAA awards funding based on the criteria at § 923.125(a). Such tasks are essential to meeting the milestones and objectives of each state's strategy. As funding for weighted formula tasks is more predictable than for projects of special merit, basic functions necessary to achieve the objectives of the strategy, such as hiring of full time staff should be included in weighted formula tasks.
(e)
Projects of Special Merit (PSM)
means a project or task that NOAA will rank and evaluate based on criteria at § 923.125(b). As PSM funds will be awarded competitively on an annual basis, these projects should further the objectives of the strategy but may not be essential to meeting specific benchmarks in the strategy. PSM projects should not be dependent on long term levels of funding to succeed.
(f)
Fiscal needs
means the extent to which a State must rely solely on Federal funds to complete a project under section 309 because State funds are not otherwise available.
(g)
Technical needs
means the extent to which a State lacks trained personnel or equipment or access to trained personnel or equipment to complete a project under section 309.
(h)
Assistant Administrator
means the Assistant Administrator for Ocean
Services and Coastal Zone Management, or the NOAA Official responsible for directing the Federal Coastal Zone Management Program.
[57 FR 31116, July 14, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 33818, 33819, June 28, 1996]
§ 923.124
Allocation of section 309 funds.
(a)(1) As required by section 309(e) of the Act, a State will not be required to contribute any portion of the cost of any proposal for which funding is awarded under this section.
(2) As required by section 309(f) of the Act, beginning in fiscal year 1991, not less than 10 percent and not more than 20 percent of the amounts appropriated to implement sections 306 and 306A of the Act shall be retained by the Secretary for use in implementing this section, up to a maximum of $10,000,000 annually.
(b) The Assistant Administrator will annually determine the amount of funds to be devoted to section 309, which shall be not less than 10 percent nor more than 20 percent of the total amount appropriated under section 318(a)(2) of the Coastal Zone Management Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1464), taking into account the total amount appropriated under section 318(a)(2). The total amount of funds to be devoted to section 309 shall not exceed $10,000,000 annually.
(c) Of the total amount determined in paragraph (b) of this section, the Assistant Administrator will annually determine the proportion to be awarded to eligible coastal States by weighted formula and the proportion to be awarded to eligible coastal States for projects of special merit. This determination will take into account the total amount appropriated under section 318(a)(2) of the CZMA, as amended.
(d)
Weighted formula funding.
(1)(i) A weighted formula funding target will be determined for each State that meets the eligibility requirements at § 923.121(b). The weighted formula funding target will be the State base allocation determined by the application of the formula at § 923.110(c), multiplied by a weighting factor derived from the Assistant Administrator's evaluation and ranking of the quality of the State's Strategy (as described in (d)(1) of this section), as supported by the State's Assessment.
(ii) The application of the weighting factor may result in a weighted formula funding target that is higher or lower than the State's base allocation. Each State's weighted formula funding target will be adjusted to reflect the funds available.
(iii) The Assistant Administrator may establish minimum and maximum weighted formula funding targets under § 923.124(d).
(2) The Assistant Administrator will determine each State's weighting factor based on an evaluation and ranking of the State's Strategy that takes into consideration the following:
(i) The scope and value of the proposed program change(s) contained in the Strategy in terms of improved coastal resource management;
(ii) The technical merits of the Strategy in terms of project design and cost effectiveness;
(iii) The likelihood of success that the State will have in attaining the proposed program change(s), including an evaluation of the State's past performance and support for the Strategy; and,
(iv) The fiscal and technical needs of the State.
(3) Each State will be notified individually of its weighting factor, the reasons for assigning this weighting factor, and any changes thereto. In consultation with the Assistant Administrator, a State may choose to make substantive changes to its approved Assessment and Strategy to improve its weighting factor, in accordance with the procedures at § 923.128.
(e)
Funding for projects of special merit.
The Assistant Administrator will award the remaining section 309 funds, which are not awarded under § 923.124(d), to States based on an annual evaluation and ranking of projects of special merit, as defined in § 923.123(d). Funding of projects of special merit will be limited to the highest ranked projects based on the criteria at § 923.125(b).
(f) The Assistant Administrator will notify each State annually of the total amount of funds to be devoted to section 309 pursuant to § 923.124(b), the proportion to be awarded by weighted
formula pursuant to § 923.124(c), the State's weighted formula funding target pursuant to § 923.124(d), and the total amount of funds available for funding for projects of special merit pursuant to § 923.124(e).
[57 FR 31116, July 14, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 33818, 33819, June 28, 1996]
§ 923.125
Criteria for section 309 project selection.
(a)
Section 309 criteria for weighted formula funding.
(1) For those projects that will be funded by weighted formula, the Assistant Administrator will determine that:
(i) The project is consistent with the State's approved Assessment and Strategy and advances the attainment of the objectives of the Strategy;
(ii) Costs are reasonable and necessary to achieve the objectives of both the project and the Strategy. Allowability of costs will be determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-87: Cost Principles for State and Local Governments
(iii) The project is technically sound;
(iv) The State has an effective plan to ensure proper and efficient administration of the project; and
(v) The State has submitted the required project information as specified in § 923.126(b)(1).
(2) In reviewing projects that will be considered under the weighted formula, the Assistant Administrator will take into consideration the fiscal and technical needs of proposing States and the overall merit of each proposal in terms of benefits to the public.
(b)
Section 309 criteria for evaluation and ranking of projects of special merit.
(1) After determining those projects that will be funded under weighted formula funding, the Assistant Administrator will evaluate and rank State funding proposals of special merit which may be funded under 15 CFR 932.4(e).
(2) In addition to meeting the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, proposals will be evaluated and ranked under this subsection using the following criteria:
(i)
Merit.
(90 points) The Assistant Administrator will review each application to determine the following:
(A) Degree to which the project significantly advances the program improvements and leads to a program change identified in the State's Strategy. In making this determination, the Assistant Administrator shall consider the weighting factor derived from the evaluation of the quality of the State's Strategy, as supported by the State's Assessment, relative to the weighting factors assigned to other eligible States;
(B) Overall benefit of the project to the public relative to the project's cost;
(C) Innovativeness of the proposal;
(D) Transferability of the results to problems in other coastal States; and
(E) The State's past performance under section 309.
(ii)
Fiscal needs.
(5 points) The Assistant Administrator will review each application to determine the “fiscal needs” of a State as defined in § 923.123(e).
(iii)
Technical needs.
(5 points) The Assistant Administrator will review each application to determine the “technical needs” of a State as defined in § 923.123(f).
(c) Section 309 funds not awarded to States under § 923.125(a) will be awarded to States under § 923.125(b).
[57 FR 31116, July 14, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 33818, 33819, June 28, 1996]
§ 923.126
Pre-application procedures.
(a)
Pre-submission consultation.
Each State is strongly encouraged to consult with the Assistant Administrator prior to the submission of its draft proposal (see § 923.126(b)) and formal application for section 309 funding. The purpose of the consultation will be to determine whether the proposed projects are consistent with the purposes and objectives of section 309 and with the State's approved Strategy, to resolve any questions concerning eligibility for funding under section 309 (see § 923.121(b)), and to discuss preliminarily the State's recommendations regarding which projects should be funded by weighted formula and which projects should be individually evaluated and ranked as projects of special merit.
(b)
Draft proposals.
States shall submit draft proposals for section 309 funding annually on a schedule to be
determined by the Assistant Administrator. These draft proposals shall contain all of the information needed for final application, including the following:
(1) A clear and concise description of the projects that the State proposes to be funded under section 309. This description shall explain the relationship of each proposed project to the State's approved Assessment and Strategy and how each proposed project will accomplish all or part of a program change that the State has identified in its Strategy. In addition, each project description shall include:
(i) A specific timetable for completion of each project;
(ii) A description of the activities that will be undertaken to complete each project and by whom;
(iii) The identification of any subawardees, pursuant to § 923.94(d)(3)(ii); and
(iv) The estimated total cost for each project.
(2) Section 309 funds may be used for any of the following allowable uses which support the attainment of a program change:
(i) Personnel costs;
(ii) Supplies and overhead;
(iii) Travel;
(iv) Equipment (pursuant to 15 CFR part 24);
(v) Projects, studies and reports; and
(vi) Contractual costs including subcontracts, subawards, personal service contracts with individuals, memoranda of agreement/understanding, and other forms of passthrough funding for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of section 309.
(3) Funds may not be used for land acquisition or low cost construction projects.
(4) The State may recommend which projects should be funded by weighted formula under § 923.125(a) and which projects should be funded as projects of special merit under § 923.125(b).
(5) The draft proposal shall contain documentation of fiscal needs and technical needs, if any. This documentation shall include:
(i) For fiscal needs, information on the current State budget (surplus or deficit), the budget of the applying agency (increase or decrease over previous fiscal year), future budget projections, and what efforts have been made by the applying agency, if any, to secure additional State funds from the Legislature and/or from off-budget sources such as user fees; and
(ii) For technical needs, identification of the technical knowledge, skills and equipment that are needed to carry out proposed projects and that are not available to the applying agency, and what efforts the applying agency has made, if any, to obtain the trained personnel and equipment it needs (for example, through agreements with other State agencies).
(6) The Assistant Administrator may request additional documentation of fiscal and technical needs.
(7) Following the first year of funding under section 309, the draft proposal shall describe how the past year's work contributed to the attainment of a program change as defined in § 923.123(a) in one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives.
(8) If the sum of estimated project costs for projects the State recommends be funded under § 923.125(a) exceeds the State's weighted formula funding target pursuant to § 923.124(d), NOAA shall determine, in consultation with the State, which projects are appropriate for funding with weighted formula funds.
(c)
Review of draft proposals.
(1) The Assistant Administrator will make the final determination of which projects should be funded by weighted formula and which projects should be funded as projects of special merit, taking into account the State's recommendations.
(2) The Assistant Administrator may seek advice from technical experts in the fields of the coastal zone enhancement objectives as to the technical soundness and overall merit of section 309 project proposals.
(3) The Assistant Administrator will make the final determinations on project selection using the criteria at § 923.125(a) and evaluate and rank projects of special merit based on the criteria at § 923.125(b).
(4) If the Assistant Administrator determines that a State's project proposal(s) for weighted formula funding fails to meet the criteria at § 923.125(a),
the Assistant Administrator may either reduce or deny the amount available to the State under § 923.124(d).
(5) Each state will be notified of the results of the review of draft proposals, as described in paragraphs (c) (3) and (4) of this section, in time to include approved section 309 projects in their applications for financial assistance pursuant to subpart I of 15 CFR part 923.
[57 FR 31116, July 14, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 33818, 33819, June 28, 1996]
§ 923.127
Formal application for financial assistance and application review and approval procedures.
(a) Applications for financial assistance under this part must be developed and submitted on the same schedule as applications for financial assistance under subpart I of 15 CFR part 923.
(b) Applications for financial assistance under this part must be in a separate section of the application and must contain the information specified at § 923.126(b)(1) for each approved section 309 project.
(c) Applications will be reviewed for conformance with the regulations at subpart I of 15 CFR part 923.
(d) States will be notified of their section 309 awards at the time they are notified of their section 306/306A awards.
(e) If the Assistant Administrator seeks technical advice pursuant to § 923.126(c)(2), anonymous copies of the project reviews provided to the Assistant Administrator on projects proposed by a State will be made available to the State upon request after October 1 of each year.
[57 FR 31116, July 14, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 33818, 33819, June 28, 1996]
§ 923.128
Revisions to assessments and strategies.
(a) A State, in consultation with the Assistant Administrator, may propose to revise its approved Strategy. Revision(s) to an approved Strategy must be submitted to and approved by the Assistant Administrator prior to the initiation of the contemplated change.
(b) The Assistant Administrator will review such proposed revision(s) and determine if public review and comment is required. This determination will be based on the extent to which the proposed revision(s) changes the original scope of the State's Strategy.
(c) If the Assistant Administrator determines that public review and comment is necessary, he/she will notify the State of his/her determination. The State will be required to provide public review and comment in accordance with NOAA guidance.
(d) A State that wants to revise substantively the program changes identified in its approved Strategy or to address new enhancement objectives not identified as a priority in the original Assessment, also must revise the Assessment through a public process as described in NOAA's guidance.
(e) The Assistant Administrator, in consultation with the State, may reduce a state's weighting factor assigned to its Strategy as a result of failure to meet the milestones in its Strategy.
(f) The Assistant Administrator will notify the State of his/her decision to approve or deny the proposed revision(s) to the Strategy, and any change in the weighting factor assigned to its Strategy.

# Subpart L—Review of Performance

# Authority:
Section 312 of the Coastal Zone Management Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1458).
§ 923.131
General.
This subpart sets forth the requirements for review of approved State coastal zone management (CZM) programs pursuant to section 312 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1458). This subpart defines “continuing review” and other important terms, and sets forth the procedures for:
(a) Conducting continuing reviews of approved State CZM programs;
(b) Providing for public participation;
(c) Invoking interim sanctions for non-adherence to an approved coastal zone management program or a portion of such program; and
(d) Withdrawing program approval and financial assistance.
[57 FR 31113, July 14, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 33818, June 28, 1996]
§ 923.132
Definitions.
(a)
Continuing review
means monitoring State performance on an ongoing basis. As part of the continuing review, evaluations of approved CZM programs will be conducted and written findings will be produced at least once every three years.
(b)
Adherence
means to comply with the approved CZM program and financial assistance award or work program.
(c)
Interim sanction
means suspension and redirection of any portion of financial assistance extended to any coastal State under this title, if the Secretary determines that the coastal State is failing to adhere to the management program or a State plan developed to manage a national estuarine reserve, or a portion of the program or plan approved by the Secretary, or the terms of any grant or cooperative agreement funded under this title.
(d)
Approved CZM program
means those elements of the program approved by the Secretary, under 15 CFR part 923 (Development and Approval Provisions), including any changes to those elements made by approved amendments and routine program implementation.
(e)
Financial assistance award
means a legal instrument that creates a relationship between the Federal government and another entity (recipient). The principal purpose of the award is the transfer of money or services in order to accomplish a public purpose authorized by Federal statute. The term “financial assistance award” encompasses grants, loans, and cooperative agreements. The following elements constitute the award:
(1) The work program described in the approved application;
(2) The budget;
(3) The standard terms and conditions of the award;
(4) Any special award conditions included with the award;
(5) The statutes and regulations under which the award is authorized; and
(6) Applicable OMB cost principles and administrative requirements.
(f)
Work program
means a description of the tasks to be undertaken by a State for a given time period for the purpose of implementing and enforcing an approved CZM program. The work program is submitted as a part of a Federal financial assistance application, or separately in the absence of Federal financial assistance.
(g)
Assistant Administrator
means the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management, or the NOAA Official responsible for directing the Federal Coastal Zone Management Program.
[47 FR 21021, May 17, 1982, as amended at 57 FR 31113, July 14, 1992. Redesignated at 61 FR 33818, June 28, 1996]
§ 923.133
Procedure for conducting continuing reviews of approved State CZM programs.
(a) As required by section 312(a), the Secretary shall conduct a continuing review of the performance of coastal States with respect to coastal management. Each review shall include a written evaluation with an assessment and detailed findings concerning the extent to which the State has implemented and enforced the program approved by the Secretary, addressed the coastal management needs identified in section 303(2)(A) through (K), and adhered to the terms of any grant, loan, or cooperative agreement funded under this title (16 U.S.C. 1451-1464).
(b)
Continuing review procedures.
(1) Each State will submit a financial assistance application or work program, whichever is applicable, on a timetable negotiated with the Assistant Administrator, describing the tasks to be undertaken by the State for the purpose of implementing and enforcing its approved CZM program.
(2) For the purpose of evaluation, the States will submit performance reports as specified in the Special Award Conditions, or, if the State is not receiving an award, as negotiated with the Assistant Administrator. The reports will address all areas identified in each State's Performance Report Guidelines.
(3) The Assistant Administrator will collect information on the State CZM programs on a continuing basis. At the beginning of each evaluation, the Assistant Administrator will analyze available information, identify information gaps, and formulate any additional information needs that will be
the subject of a supplemental information request to the State.
(4) The Assistant Administrator may conduct a site visit as a part of the evaluation.
(5) Draft findings of the evaluation will be transmitted to the State. The State will have a minimum of two weeks from receipt of the draft findings to review them and provide comments to the Assistant Administrator. This review time may be extended upon request from the State.
(6) Within two weeks from receipt of the draft findings, a State may request a meeting with the Assistant Administrator to discuss the draft findings and the State's comments.
(7) The Assistant Administrator will issue final findings to the State CZM program manager and the head of the State CZM agency within 120 days of the last public meeting in the State. Copies of the final findings will be sent to all persons and organizations who participated in the evaluation. Participants may be asked to complete a card or sign-in sheet provided by the evaluation team indicating that they wish to receive the final findings. Notice of the availability of the final findings will also be published in the
Federal Register.
(8) The final findings will contain a section entitled “Response to Written Comments.” This section will include a summary of all written comments received during the evaluation and NOAA's response to the comments. If appropriate, NOAA's response will indicate whether NOAA agrees or disagrees with the comment and how the comment has been addressed in the final findings.
(9) The Assistant Administrator may conduct issue or problem-specific evaluations between scheduled evaluations of approved State CZM programs. Such issue or problem-specific evaluations will be conducted to follow-up on potentially serious problems or issues identified in the most recent scheduled evaluation or to evaluate evidence of potentially serious problems or issues that may arise during day-to-day monitoring of State performance of grants tasks or other program implementation activities in the interim between scheduled evaluations. If the Assistant Administrator conducts an issue or problem specific evaluation, he/she will comply with the procedures and public participation requirements of §§ 923.133 and 923.134.
(c)
Requirements for continuing review of approved State CZM programs
—(1)
Scope of continuing reviews.
The continuing review of a State's approved CZM program will include an evaluation of the extent to which the State has:
(i) Implemented and enforced the program approved by the Secretary;
(ii) Addressed the coastal management needs identified in section 303(2) (A)-(K) (16 U.S.C. 1452); and
(iii) Adhered to the terms of financial assistance awards.
(2)
Procedure for assessing adherence to the approved CZM program.
(i) In reviewing adherence of a State to its approved CZM program, the Assistant Administrator will evaluate all aspects of the “approved CZM program” as defined in § 923.132(d). The evaluation will examine the extent to which:
(A) The State is implementing and enforcing its approved CZM program;
(B) The management agency is effectively playing a leadership role in coastal issues, monitoring the actions of appropriate State and local agencies for compliance with the approved CZM program, and assuring the opportunity for full participation of all interested entities in CZM program implementation; and
(C) The management agency is effectively carrying out the provisions of Federal consistency.
(ii) The findings concerning the State's adherence to its approved CZM program will be used in negotiating the next financial assistance award or work program, whichever is applicable.
(3) Procedure for assessing how the State has addressed the coastal management needs identified in section 303(2) (A)-(K). The assessment of the extent to which the State has addressed the coastal management needs identified in section 303(2) (A)-(K) will occur as follows:
(i) The State, in its performance report, will provide the Assistant Administrator with a listing of all actions it is taking during the performance report period to address the national
coastal management needs and how these actions relate to conditions in the State and the objectives and priorities in the State CZM program.
(ii) The Assistant Administrator, in the evaluation findings, will assess the extent to which the State's actions are targeted to meeting identified “needs” and the effectiveness of the actions in addressing those needs. Based on this assessment, the Assistant Administrator will make findings and recommendations of the extent to which each State is addressing the coastal management needs identified in section 303.
(iii) The findings concerning how the State has addressed the coastal management needs of section 303 will be used by the Assistant Administrator in negotiating the next financial assistance award.
(4)
Procedure for assessing adherence to the terms of financial assistance awards.
(i) Adherence to financial and administrative terms of each financial assistance award will be determined by the NOAA Grants Office and the Department of Commerce Inspector General. Adherence to programmatic terms of each financial assistance award will be determined by the Assistant Administrator and the NOAA Grants Office. These determinations will be made in accordance with the requirements outlined in these regulations, the findings of a financial audit of the award, and the following criteria:
(A) Compliance with the statute, regulations, and applicable OMB circulars;
(B) Submission of required reports and satisfactory completion of work products as described in the approved application and within the timeframe specified;
(C) Compliance with Standard Terms and Conditions and Special Award Conditions within the specified timeframes;
(D) Use of award funds only for approved projects; and
(E) Substantive modification of approved projects only with the prior agreement of NOAA.
(ii) The findings concerning adherence to the terms of financial assistance awards will be used in negotiating the next financial assistance award, if any.
(d)
Requirements for continuing review of State coastal energy impact programs
—(1)
Scope of continuing reviews.
The continuing review of State coastal energy impact programs will include the following elements:
(i) An evaluation of the State's adherence to the terms of financial assistance awards;
(ii) An evaluation of the relationship between coastal energy impact projects and the approved CZM program;
(iii) A description of energy activities in coastal areas and the impact resulting from these activities; and
(iv) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the coastal energy impact program in dealing with these consequences.
(2)
Procedure for assessing adherence to the terms of financial assistance awards.
See § 923.133(c)(4).
[47 FR 21021, May 17, 1982, as amended at 57 FR 31114, July 14, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 33818, June 28, 1996]
§ 923.134
Public participation.
(a) As required by section 312(b) of the Act, in evaluating a coastal State's performance, the Secretary shall conduct the evaluation in an open and public manner, and provide full opportunity for public participation, including holding public meetings in the State being evaluated and providing opportunities for the submission of written and oral comments by the public. The Secretary shall provide the public with at least 45 days notice of such public meetings by placing a notice in the
Federal Register,
by publication of timely notices in newspapers of general circulation within the State being evaluated, and by communications with persons and organizations known to be interested in the evaluation. Each evaluation shall be prepared in report form and shall include written responses to the written comments received during the evaluation process.
(b)
Requirements.
(1) The Assistant Administrator will publish a Notice of Intent to Evaluate in the
Federal Register
at least 45 days before the public meeting(s). The notice will include a Statement of the availability of the State's performance report and the supplemental information request.
(2) Each State will issue a notice of the public meeting(s) in its evaluation by placing a notice in the newspaper(s) of largest circulation in the coastal area where the meeting(s) is being held and by taking other reasonable action to communicate with persons and organizations known to be interested in the evaluation, such as sending a notice of the meeting(s) to persons on its mailing list and publishing a notice in its newsletter, at least 45 days before the date of the public meeting(s). The State will provide a copy of such notice to the Assistant Administrator. States are encouraged to republish the newspaper notice at least 15 days before the date of the public meeting(s). The State will inform the public that oral or written comments will be accepted and that attendance at the public meeting(s) is not necessary for submission of written comments.
(3) Notice of the availability of final findings will be published in the
Federal Register.
The notice will state that copies of the final findings will be available to the public upon written request. Copies of the final findings will be sent to persons and organizations who participated in the evaluation, in accordance with 923.133(b)(7).
[47 FR 21021, May 17, 1982, as amended at 57 FR 31114, July 14, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 33818, June 28, 1996]
§ 923.135
Enforcement.
(a)
Procedures and criteria for invoking and lifting interim sanctions.
(1) As required by section 312(c) of the Act:
(i) The Secretary may suspend payment of any portion of financial assistance extended to any coastal State, and may withdraw any unexpended portion of such assistance, if the Secretary determines that the coastal State is failing to adhere to—
(A) The management program or a State plan developed to manage a national estuarine reserve established under section 315 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1461), or a portion of the program or plan approved by the Secretary; or
(B) The terms of any grant or cooperative agreement funded under this title (16 U.S.C. 1451-1464).
(ii) Financial assistance may not be suspended under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section unless the Secretary provides the Governor of the coastal State with—
(A) Written specifications and a schedule for the actions that should be taken by the State in order that such suspension of financial assistance may be withdrawn; and
(B) Written specifications stating how those funds from the suspended financial assistance shall be expended by the coastal State to take the actions referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(iii) The suspension of financial assistance may not last for less than 6 months or more than 36 months after the date of suspension.
(2)
Requirements.
(i) The Assistant Administrator will identify the need for interim sanctions through the continuing review process. The Assistant Administrator will use the criteria at § 923.135(a)(3) in determining when to invoke interim sanctions.
(ii) The Assistant Administrator will issue the State a preliminary finding of non-adherence with the approved CZM program, or a portion thereof, and/or with a term or terms of a grant or cooperative agreement. This preliminary finding of non-adherence may be contained in the draft evaluation findings, or in a preliminary notification letter to the State CZM program manager. If the preliminary finding is contained in a preliminary notification letter, the Assistant Administrator will comply with the applicable public participation requirements of section 312(b) and NOAA's regulations at § 923.134. The draft evaluation findings or preliminary notification letter containing a preliminary finding of non-adherence will explain that if the finding of non-adherence is issued, the State is subject to suspension of financial assistance and, if the State fails to take the actions specified pursuant to section 312(c) and this part, to withdrawal of program approval and financial assistance.
(iii) The State will be given 30 days from receipt of the draft evaluation findings or preliminary notification letter to comment on and rebut the preliminary finding of non-adherence. During this 30-day period, the State may request up to 15 additional days to respond, for a maximum of 45 days
from receipt of the draft evaluation findings or preliminary notification letter.
(iv) After considering the State's comments, the Assistant Administrator will decide whether or not to issue a final finding of non-adherence. If the Assistant Administrator decides to issue a final finding of non-adherence, he/she will do so in the final evaluation findings issued pursuant to section 312(b) or in a final notification letter as provided by paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section. The Assistant Administrator may invoke interim sanctions provided by section 312(c) immediately or at any time after issuing the final evaluation findings or final notification letter containing the finding of non-adherence, but not later than the next regularly scheduled evaluation.
(v) If the Assistant Administrator decides to invoke interim sanctions, he/she will do so by sending the final evaluation findings or final notification letter to the Governor of the State and the State CZM program manager. The final evaluation findings or final notification letter will contain the information required in section 312(c)(2) (A) and (B). This information will include the amount of financial assistance to be suspended and redirected, the actions the State should take in order to have the suspension withdrawn, how the suspended funds shall be expended to take the required actions, and a schedule for taking the required actions. The final evaluation findings or final notification letter will also contain the length of the suspension, which may not last for less than 6 months or more than 36 months. The Assistant Administrator will establish the length of the suspension based on the amount of time that is reasonably necessary for the State to take the required actions. If the State can take the required actions faster than expected, the suspension can be withdrawn early (but not in less than six months).
(vi) The State must respond to the final evaluation findings or final notification letter by developing a proposed work program to accomplish the required actions on the schedule set forth in the final evaluation findings or final notification letter. The State may propose an alternative approach to accomplishing the required actions and/or an alternative schedule. The Assistant Administrator's approval of the State's work program will signify his/her agreement with the approach and schedule for accomplishing the actions necessary to withdraw the suspension.
(vii) The Assistant Administrator will monitor State performance under the work program. This may involve additional direction to the State through the grant administration process and/or a visit to the State by appropriate NOAA program staff, evaluation staff and/or other experts to work with the State on a specific problem or issue. The Assistant Administrator will consider proposals to revise the work program on a case-by-case basis, providing that the State will still be able to accomplish the necessary actions within a maximum of 36 months.
(viii) The State must document that it has taken the required actions on the schedule established under this section. The State must provide its documentation in writing to the Assistant Administrator. The Assistant Administrator may conduct a follow-up evaluation or otherwise revisit the State at his/her discretion.
(ix) If the Assistant Administrator determines that the required actions have been taken, the Assistant Administrator will promptly notify the Governor and the State program manager, in writing, that NOAA has withdrawn the suspension of financial assistance. If, however, the State does not take the required actions, then the Assistant Administrator will invoke the final sanction provisions of section 312(d) on program termination and withdrawal of all financial assistance.
(3)
Criteria for invoking interim sanctions.
(i) The Assistant Administrator may consider the following indicators of non-adherence to an approved State CZM program in determining whether to invoke interim sanctions.
(A)
Ineffective or inconsistent implementation of legally enforceable policies included in the CZM program.
Indicators of ineffective or inconsistent implementation could include: evidence of non-compliance with core authorities by the regulated community; insufficient monitoring and inspecting of
coastal development to ensure that it conforms to program requirements and applicable conditions; or inadequate enforcement action when development is found not to be in compliance with the program or permit under which it is authorized or is found to be an unpermitted activity. In applying this indicator, NOAA will consider any available evidence of the impacts of ineffective or inconsistent implementation on coastal resources.
(B)
Inadequate monitoring of the actions of State and local agencies for compliance with the program.
Indicators of inadequate monitoring of these agencies could include: evidence of non-compliance of networked agencies with the CZM program, unresolved conflicts between agencies regarding what constitutes compliance with the program, or lack of a mechanism to ensure that all State agencies will adhere to the program or to approved local coastal programs pursuant to NOAA's regulations at 15 CFR 923.40 (and pursuant to new section 306(d)(15), after November 5, 1993 and after states have been given reasonable opportunity to comply with NOAA's implementing guidance).
(C)
Non-compliance of local coastal programs with the approved State program.
Indicators of non-compliance could include: Local permitting or zoning decisions that are inconsistent with State standards or criteria, widespread granting of variances such as to render a zoning program ineffective in meeting State standards or criteria, changes to local comprehensive plans or zoning maps that are inconsistent with State standards or criteria, or inadequate monitoring and enforcement, as described in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(D)
Ineffective implementation of Federal consistency authority.
Indicators of ineffective implementation could include: Not reviewing Federal activities, Federal licenses and permits, including offshore oil and gas exploration and development, and Federal financial assistance to State and local governments for consistency with the approved CZM program or employing review procedures that are not in accordance with State and NOAA regulations.
(E)
Inadequate opportunity for intergovernmental cooperation and public participation in management program implementation.
Indicators of inadequate opportunity could include: not carrying out procedures necessary to insure adequate consideration of the national interest in facilities which are necessary to meet requirements which are other than local in nature, not implementing effectively mechanisms for continuing consultation and coordination, not providing required notice that a management program decision would conflict with a local zoning ordinance, decision or other action pursuant to section 306(d)(3)(B)(i) and 15 CFR 923.57, or not providing opportunities for public participation in permitting processes, consistency determinations and other similar decisions pursuant to new section 306(d)(14) after November 5, 1993 and after states have been given reasonable opportunity to comply with NOAA's implementing guidance.
(F)
Non-adherence to the terms of a grant or cooperative agreement, including the schedule for funded activities.
The Assistant Administrator will also consider the extent to which priorities for expenditure of Federal funds reflect an appropriate priority for activities necessary to implement and enforce core program authorities effectively.
(G) Not submitting changes to the approved program for Federal approval on a schedule developed pursuant to 15 CFR 923.81(a) and 923.84(b)(1)(i) or developing and implementing changes to the approved program without Federal approval which are inconsistent with the Act or the approved program or which result in a reduced level of protection of coastal resources.
(ii) The Assistant Administrator may consider whether an indication of non-adherence is of recent origin (in which case the State may be given a reasonable opportunity to correct it) or has been repeatedly brought to the State's attention without corrective action in determining whether to invoke interim sanctions.
(b)
Withdrawal of program approval and financial assistance.
(1) As required by sections 312(d) and 312(e) of the Act:
(i) The Secretary shall withdraw approval of the management program of any coastal State and shall withdraw financial assistance available to that State under this title as well as any
unexpended portion of such assistance, if the Secretary determines that the coastal State has failed to take the actions referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(ii) Management program approval and financial assistance may not be withdrawn under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, unless the Secretary gives the coastal State notice of the proposed withdrawal and an opportunity for a public hearing on the proposed action. Upon the withdrawal of management program approval under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the Secretary shall provide the coastal State with written specifications of the actions that should be taken, or not engaged in, by the State in order that such withdrawal may be canceled by the Secretary.
(2)
Requirements.
(i) If the Assistant Administrator determines that the State has not taken the actions required in § 923.135(a)(2), the Assistant Administrator will provide the Governor and the State CZM program manager with written notice of this finding and NOAA's obligation to withdraw program approval and financial assistance under this title. The State will be given 30 days from receipt of this notice to respond with evidence that it has taken the actions specified pursuant to § 923.135(a)(2). During this 30-day period, the State may request up to 30 additional days to respond, for a maximum of 60 days from receipt of notice.
(ii) If the State does not respond satisfactorily within the time allowed, the agency will notify the State of intent to take the proposed action. This notice will be published in the
Federal Register
and will inform the State of its right to a public hearing.
(iii) If the State does not request a public hearing or submit satisfactory evidence that it has taken the actions specified pursuant to § 923.135(a)(2) within 30 days of publication of this notice, and the Assistant Administrator determines that the State has failed to take the actions specified pursuant to § 923.135(a)(2), the Assistant Administrator will withdraw program approval and financial assistance and will notify the State in writing of the decision and the reasons for it. The notification will set forth actions that must be taken by the State which would cause the Assistant Administrator to cancel the withdrawal.
(iv) If the State requests a public hearing within 30 days of publication of the notice of intent to withdraw program approval and financial assistance, the Assistant Administrator will publish 30 days advance notice of the hearing in the
Federal Register
and the newspaper(s) of largest circulation in the State's coastal zone. The hearing will be held in a location convenient to the citizens of the State's coastal zone and a record of the hearing will be maintained. Within 30 days of the completion of the hearing, the agency will make the determination as set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.
(3) If program approval and financial assistance are withdrawn pursuant to this section, a notice will be placed in the
Federal Register
and Federal consistency under section 307 of the Act will cease to apply to the State's CZM program.
[47 FR 21021, May 17, 1982, as amended at 57 FR 31114, July 14, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 33818, June 28, 1996]
Pt. 930

# PART 930—FEDERAL CONSISTENCY WITH APPROVED COASTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
930.1
Overall objectives.
930.2
Public participation.
930.3
Review of the implementation of the federal consistency requirement.
930.4
Conditional concurrences.
930.5
State enforcement action.
930.6
State agency responsibility.

# Subpart B—General Definitions
930.10
Index to definitions for terms defined in part 930.
930.11
Definitions.

# Subpart C—Consistency for Federal Agency Activities
930.30
Objectives.
930.31
Federal agency activity.
930.32
Consistent to the maximum extent practicable.
930.33
Identifying Federal agency activities affecting any coastal use or resource.
930.34
Federal and State agency coordination.
930.35
Negative determinations for proposed activities.
930.36
Consistency determinations for proposed activities.
930.37
Consistency determinations and National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requirements.
930.38
Consistency determinations for activities initiated prior to management program approval.
930.39
Content of a consistency determination.
930.40
Multiple Federal agency participation.
930.41
State agency response.
930.42
Public participation.
930.43
State agency objection.
930.44
Availability of mediation for disputes concerning proposed activities.
930.45
Availability of mediation for previously reviewed activities.
930.46
Supplemental coordination for proposed activities.

# Subpart D—Consistency for Activities Requiring a Federal License or Permit
930.50
Objectives.
930.51
Federal license or permit.
930.52
Applicant.
930.53
Listed federal license or permit activities.
930.54
Unlisted federal license or permit activities.
930.55
Availability of mediation for license or permit disputes.
930.56
State agency guidance and assistance to applicants.
930.57
Consistency certifications.
930.58
Necessary data and information.
930.59
Multiple permit review.
930.60
Commencement of State agency review.
930.61
Public participation.
930.62
State agency concurrence with a consistency certification.
930.63
State agency objection to a consistency certification.
930.64
Federal permitting agency responsibility.
930.65
Remedial action for previously reviewed activities.
930.66
Supplemental coordination for proposed activities.

# Subpart E—Consistency for Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Exploration, Development and Production Activities
930.70
Objectives.
930.71
Federal license or permit activity described in detail.
930.72
Person.
930.73
OCS plan.
930.74
OCS activities subject to State agency review.
930.75
State agency assistance to persons.
930.76
Submission of an OCS plan, necessary data and information and consistency certification.
930.77
Commencement of State agency review and public notice.
930.78
State agency concurrence or objection.
930.79
Effect of State agency concurrence.
930.80
Federal permitting agency responsibility.
930.81
Multiple permit review.
930.82
Amended OCS plans.
930.83
Review of amended OCS plans; public notice.
930.84
Continuing State agency objections.
930.85
Failure to substantially comply with an approved OCS plan.

# Subpart F—Consistency for Federal Assistance to State and Local Governments
930.90
Objectives.
930.91
Federal assistance.
930.92
Applicant agency.
930.93
Intergovernmental review process.
930.94
State review process for consistency.
930.95
Guidance provided by the State agency.
930.96
Consistency review.
930.97
Federal assisting agency responsibility.
930.98
Federally assisted activities outside of the coastal zone or the described geographic area.
930.99
Availability of mediation for federal assistance disputes.
930.100
Remedial action for previously reviewed activities.
930.101
Supplemental coordination for proposed activities.

# Subpart G—Secretarial Mediation
930.110
Objectives.
930.111
OCRM mediation.
930.112
Request for Secretarial mediation.
930.113
Public hearings.
930.114
Secretarial mediation efforts.
930.115
Termination of mediation.
930.116
Judicial review.

# Subpart H—Appeal to the Secretary for Review Related to the Objectives of the Act and National Security Interests
930.120
Objectives.
930.121
Consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act.
930.122
Necessary in the interest of national security.
930.123
Definitions.
930.124
Computation of time.
930.125
Notice of appeal and application fee to the Secretary.
930.126
Consistency appeal processing fees.
930.127
Briefs and supporting materials.
930.128
Public notice, comment period, and public hearing.
930.129
Dismissal, remand, stay, and procedural override.
930.130
Closure of the decision record and issuance of decision.
930.131
Review initiated by the Secretary.

# Subpart I—Consistency of Federal Activities Having Interstate Coastal Effects
930.150
Objectives.
930.151
Interstate coastal effect.
930.152
Application.
930.153
Coordination between States in developing coastal management policies.
930.154
Listing activities subject to routine interstate consistency review.
930.155
Federal and State agency coordination.
930.156
Content of a consistency determination or certification and State agency response.
930.157
Mediation and informal negotiations.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.

# Source:
65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Information
§ 930.1
Overall objectives.
The objectives of this part are:
(a) To describe the obligations of all parties who are required to comply with the federal consistency requirement of the Coastal Zone Management Act;
(b) To implement the federal consistency requirement in a manner which strikes a balance between the need to ensure consistency for federal actions affecting any coastal use or resource with the enforceable policies of approved management programs and the importance of federal activities (the term “federal action” includes all types of activities subject to the federal consistency requirement under subparts C, D, E, F and I of this part.);
(c) To provide flexible procedures which foster intergovernmental cooperation and minimize duplicative effort and unnecessary delay, while making certain that the objectives of the federal consistency requirement of the Act are satisfied. Federal agencies, State agencies, and applicants should coordinate as early as possible in developing a proposed federal action, and may mutually agree to intergovernmental coordination efforts to meet the requirements of these regulations, provided that public participation requirements are met and applicable State management program enforceable policies are considered. State agencies should participate in the administrative processes of federal agencies concerning federal actions that may be subject to state review under subparts C, D, E, F and I of this part.
(d) To interpret significant terms in the Act and this part;
(e) To provide procedures to make certain that all Federal agency and State agency consistency decisions are directly related to the enforceable policies of approved management programs;
(f) To provide procedures which the Secretary, in cooperation with the Executive Office of the President, may use to mediate serious disagreements which arise between Federal and State agencies during the administration of approved management programs; and
(g) To provide procedures which permit the Secretary to review federal license or permit activities, or federal assistance activities, to determine whether they are consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act, or are necessary in the interest of national security.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 826, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.2
Public participation.
State management programs shall provide an opportunity for public participation in the State agency's review of a Federal agency's consistency determination or an applicant's or person's consistency certification.
§ 930.3
Review of the implementation of the federal consistency requirement.
As part of the responsibility to conduct a continuing review of approved management programs, the Director of the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management (Director) shall review the performance of each State's implementation of the federal consistency requirement. The Director shall evaluate instances where a State agency is believed to have either failed to object to inconsistent federal actions,
or improperly objected to consistent federal actions. This evaluation shall be incorporated within the Director's general efforts to ascertain instances where a State has not adhered to its approved management program and such lack of adherence is not justified.
§ 930.4
Conditional concurrences
(a) Federal agencies, applicants, persons and applicant agencies should cooperate with State agencies to develop conditions that, if agreed to during the State agency's consistency review period and included in a Federal agency's final decision under subpart C or in a Federal agency's approval under subparts D, E, F or I of this part, would allow the State agency to concur with the federal action. If instead a State agency issues a conditional concurrence:
(1) The State agency shall include in its concurrence letter the conditions which must be satisfied, an explanation of why the conditions are necessary to ensure consistency with specific enforceable policies of the management program, and an identification of the specific enforceable policies. The State agency's concurrence letter shall also inform the parties that if the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of the section are not met, then all parties shall treat the State agency's conditional concurrence letter as an objection pursuant to the applicable subpart and notify, pursuant to § 930.63(e), applicants, persons and applicant agencies of the opportunity to appeal the State agency's objection to the Secretary of Commerce within 30 days after receipt of the State agency's conditional concurrence/objection or 30 days after receiving notice from the Federal agency that the application will not be approved as amended by the State agency's conditions; and
(2) The Federal agency (for subpart C), applicant (for subparts D and I), person (for subpart E) or applicant agency (for subpart F) shall modify the applicable plan, project proposal, or application to the Federal agency pursuant to the State agency's conditions. The Federal agency, applicant, person or applicant agency shall immediately notify the State agency if the State agency's conditions are not acceptable; and
(3) The Federal agency (for subparts D, E, F and I) shall approve the amended application (with the State agency's conditions). The Federal agency shall immediately notify the State agency and applicant or applicant agency if the Federal agency will not approve the application as amended by the State agency's conditions.
(b) If the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section are not met, then all parties shall treat the State agency's conditional concurrence as an objection pursuant to the applicable subpart.
§ 930.5
State enforcement action.
The regulations in this part are not intended in any way to alter or limit other legal remedies, including judicial review or State enforcement, otherwise available. State agencies and Federal agencies should first use the various remedial action and mediation sections of this part to resolve their differences or to enforce State agency concurrences or objections.
§ 930.6
State agency responsibility.
(a) This section describes the responsibilities of the “State agency” described in § 930.11(o). A designated State agency is required to uniformly and comprehensively apply the enforceable policies of the State's management program, efficiently coordinate all State coastal management requirements, and to provide a single point of contact for Federal agencies and the public to discuss consistency issues. Any appointment by the State agency of the State's consistency responsibilities to a designee agency must be described in the State's management program. In the absence of such description, all consistency determinations, consistency certifications and federal assistance proposals shall be sent to and reviewed by the State agency. A State may have two State agencies designated pursuant to § 306(d)(6) of the Act where the State has two geographically separate federally-approved management programs.
(b) The State agency is responsible for commenting on and concurring with or objecting to Federal agency
consistency determinations and negative determinations (
see
subpart C of this part), consistency certifications for federal licenses, permits, and Outer Continental Shelf plans (
see
subparts D, E and I of this part), and reviewing the consistency of federal assistance activities proposed by applicant agencies (
see
subpart F of this part). The State agency shall be responsible for securing necessary review and comment from other State, regional, or local government agencies, and, where applicable, the public. Thereafter, only the State agency is authorized to comment officially on or concur with or object to a federal consistency determination or negative determination, a consistency certification, or determine the consistency of a proposed federal assistance activity.
(c) If described in a State's management program, the issuance or denial of relevant State permits can constitute the State agency's consistency concurrence or objection if the State agency ensures that the State permitting agencies or the State agency review individual projects to ensure consistency with all applicable State management program policies and that applicable public participation requirements are met. The State agency shall monitor such permits issued by another State agency.

# Subpart B—General Definitions
§ 930.10
Index to definitions for terms defined in part 930.
Term
Section
Act
930.11(a)
Any coastal use or resource
930.11(b)
Appellant
930.123
Applicant
930.52
Applicant agency
930.92
Assistant Administrator
930.11(c)
Associated facilities
930.11(d)
Coastal zone
930.11(e)
Consistent to the maximum extent practicable
930.32
Consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act
930.121
Development project
930.31(b)
Director
930.11(f)
Effect on any coastal use or resource
930.11(g)
Enforceable policy
930.11(h)
Executive Office of the President
930.11(i)
Failure substantially to comply with an OCS plan
930.85(c)
Federal agency
930.11(j)
Federal agency activity
930.31
Federal assistance
930.91
Federal license or permit
930.51
Federal license or permit activity described in detail
930.71
Interstate coastal effect
930.151
Major amendment
930.51(c)
Management program
930.11(k)
Necessary in the interest of national security
930.122
OCS plan
930.73
OCRM
930.11(l)
Person
930.72
Secretary
930.11(m)
Section
930.11(n)
State agency
930.11(o)
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 826, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.11
Definitions.
(a)
Act.
The term “Act” means the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1451-1464).
(b)
Any coastal use or resource.
The phrase “any coastal use or resource” means any land or water use or natural resource of the coastal zone. Land and water uses, or coastal uses, are defined in sections 304(10) and (18) of the act, respectively, and include, but are not limited to, public access, recreation, fishing, historic or cultural preservation, development, hazards management, marinas and floodplain management, scenic and aesthetic enjoyment, and resource creation or restoration projects. Natural resources include biological or physical resources that are found within a State's coastal zone on a regular or cyclical basis. Biological and physical resources include, but are not limited to, air, tidal and nontidal wetlands, ocean waters, estuaries, rivers, streams, lakes, aquifers, submerged aquatic vegetation, land, plants, trees, minerals, fish, shellfish, invertebrates, amphibians, birds, mammals, reptiles, and coastal resources of national significance. Coastal uses and resources also includes uses and resources appropriately described in a management program.
(c)
Assistant Administrator.
The term “Assistant Administrator” means the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management, NOAA.
(d)
Associated facilities.
The term “associated facilities” means all proposed facilities which are specifically designed, located, constructed, operated, adapted, or otherwise used, in full or in
major part, to meet the needs of a federal action (e.g., activity, development project, license, permit, or assistance), and without which the federal action, as proposed, could not be conducted. The proponent of a federal action shall consider whether the federal action and its associated facilities affect any coastal use or resource and, if so, whether these interrelated activities satisfy the requirements of the applicable subpart (subparts C, D, E, F or I).
(e)
Coastal Zone.
The term “coastal zone” has the same definition as provided in § 304(1) of the Act.
(f)
Director.
The term “Director” means the Director of the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management (OCRM), National Ocean Service, NOAA.
(g)
Effect on any coastal use or resource (coastal effect).
The term “effect on any coastal use or resource” means any reasonably foreseeable effect on any coastal use or resource resulting from a Federal agency activity or federal license or permit activity (including all types of activities subject to the federal consistency requirement under subparts C, D, E, F and I of this part.) Effects are not just environmental effects, but include effects on coastal uses. Effects include both direct effects which result from the activity and occur at the same time and place as the activity, and indirect (cumulative and secondary) effects which result from the activity and are later in time or farther removed in distance, but are still reasonably foreseeable. Indirect effects are effects resulting from the incremental impact of the federal action when added to other past, present, and reasonably foreseeable actions, regardless of what person(s) undertake(s) such actions.
(h)
Enforceable policy.
“The term “enforceable policy” means State policies which are legally binding through constitutional provisions, laws, regulations, land use plans, ordinances, or judicial or administrative decisions, by which a State exerts control over private and public land and water uses and natural resources in the coastal zone,” 16 U.S.C. 1453(6a), and which are incorporated in a management program as approved by OCRM either as part of program approval or as a program change under 15 CFR part 923, subpart H. An enforceable policy shall contain standards of sufficient specificity to guide public and private uses. Enforceable policies need not establish detailed criteria such that a proponent of an activity could determine the consistency of an activity without interaction with the State agency. State agencies may identify management measures which are based on enforceable policies, and, if implemented, would allow the activity to be conducted consistent with the enforceable policies of the program. A State agency, however, must base its objection on enforceable policies.
(i)
Executive Office of the President.
The term “Executive Office of the President” means the office, council, board, or other entity within the Executive Office of the President which shall participate with the Secretary in seeking to mediate serious disagreements which may arise between a Federal agency and a coastal State.
(j)
Federal agency.
The term “Federal agency” means any department, agency, board, commission, council, independent office or similar entity within the executive branch of the federal government, or any wholly owned federal government corporation.
(k)
Management program.
The term “management program” has the same definition as provided in section 304(12) of the Act, except that for the purposes of this part the term is limited to those management programs adopted by a coastal State in accordance with the provisions of section 306 of the Act, and approved by the Assistant Administrator.
(l)
OCRM.
The term “OCRM” means the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, National Ocean Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”), U.S. Department of Commerce.
(m)
Secretary.
The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Commerce and/or designee.
(n)
Section.
The term “Section” means a section of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended.
(o)
State agency.
The term “State agency” means the agency of the State government designated pursuant to section 306(d)(6) of the Act to receive
and administer grants for an approved management program, or a single designee State agency appointed by the 306(d)(6) State agency.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 826, Jan. 5, 2006]

# Subpart C—Consistency for Federal Agency Activities
§ 930.30
Objectives.
The provisions of this subpart are intended to assure that all Federal agency activities including development projects affecting any coastal use or resource will be undertaken in a manner consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of approved management programs. The provisions of subpart I of this part are intended to supplement the provisions of this subpart for Federal agency activities having interstate coastal effects.
§ 930.31
Federal agency activity.
(a) The term “Federal agency activity” means any functions performed by or on behalf of a Federal agency in the exercise of its statutory responsibilities. The term “Federal agency activity” includes a range of activities where a Federal agency makes a proposal for action initiating an activity or series of activities when coastal effects are reasonably foreseeable, e.g., a Federal agency's proposal to physically alter coastal resources, a plan that is used to direct future agency actions, a proposed rulemaking that alters uses of the coastal zone. “Federal agency activity” does not include the issuance of a federal license or permit to an applicant or person (see subparts D and E of this part) or the granting of federal assistance to an applicant agency (see subpart F of this part).
(b) The term federal “development project” means a Federal agency activity involving the planning, construction, modification, or removal of public works, facilities, or other structures, and includes the acquisition, use, or disposal of any coastal use or resource.
(c) The Federal agency activity category is a residual category for federal actions that are not covered under subparts D, E, or F of this part.
(d) A general permit proposed by a Federal agency is subject to this subpart if the general permit does not involve case-by-case or individual issuance of a license or permit by a Federal agency. When proposing a general permit, a Federal agency shall provide a consistency determination to the relevant management programs and request that the State agency(ies) provide the Federal agency with review, and if necessary, conditions, based on specific enforceable policies, that would permit the State agency to concur with the Federal agency's consistency determination. State agency concurrence shall remove the need for the State agency to review individual uses of the general permit for consistency with the enforceable policies of management programs. Federal agencies shall, pursuant to the consistent to the maximum extent practicable standard in § 930.32, incorporate State conditions into the general permit. If the State agency's conditions are not incorporated into the general permit or a State agency objects to the general permit, then the Federal agency shall notify potential users of the general permit that the general permit is not available for use in that State unless an applicant under subpart D of this part or a person under subpart E of this part, who wants to use the general permit in that State provides the State agency with a consistency certification under subpart D of this part and the State agency concurs. When subpart D or E of this part applies, all provisions of the relevant subpart apply.
(e) The terms “Federal agency activity” and “Federal development project” also include modifications of any such activity or development project which affect any coastal use or resource, provided that, in the case of modifications of an activity or development project which the State agency has previously reviewed, the effect on any coastal use or resource is substantially different than those previously reviewed by the State agency.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 826, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.32
Consistent to the maximum extent practicable.
(a)(1) The term “consistent to the maximum extent practicable” means fully consistent with the enforceable policies of management programs unless full consistency is prohibited by existing law applicable to the Federal agency.
(2) Section 307(e) of the Act does not relieve Federal agencies of the consistency requirements under the Act. The Act was intended to cause substantive changes in Federal agency decisionmaking within the context of the discretionary powers residing in such agencies. Accordingly, whenever legally permissible, Federal agencies shall consider the enforceable policies of management programs as requirements to be adhered to in addition to existing Federal agency statutory mandates. If a Federal agency asserts that full consistency with the management program is prohibited, it shall clearly describe, in writing, to the State agency the statutory provisions, legislative history, or other legal authority which limits the Federal agency's discretion to be fully consistent with the enforceable policies of the management program.
(3) For the purpose of determining consistent to the maximum extent practicable under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, federal legal authority includes Federal appropriation Acts if the appropriation Act includes language that specifically prohibits full consistency with specific enforceable policies of management programs. Federal agencies shall not use a general claim of a lack of funding or insufficient appropriated funds or failure to include the cost of being fully consistent in Federal budget and planning processes as a basis for being consistent to the maximum extent practicable with an enforceable policy of a management program. The only circumstance where a Federal agency may rely on a lack of funding as a limitation on being fully consistent with an enforceable policy is the Presidential exemption described in section 307(c)(1)(B) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(1)(B)). In cases where the cost of being consistent with the enforceable policies of a management program was not included in the Federal agency's budget and planning processes, the Federal agency should determine the amount of funds needed and seek additional federal funds. Federal agencies should include the cost of being fully consistent with the enforceable policies of management programs in their budget and planning processes, to the same extent that a Federal agency would plan for the cost of complying with other federal requirements.
(b) A Federal agency may deviate from full consistency with an approved management program when such deviation is justified because of an emergency or other similar unforeseen circumstance (“exigent circumstance”), which presents the Federal agency with a substantial obstacle that prevents complete adherence to the approved program. Any deviation shall be the minimum necessary to address the exigent circumstance. Federal agencies shall carry out their activities consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of a management program, to the extent that the exigent circumstance allows. Federal agencies shall consult with State agencies to the extent that an exigent circumstance allows and shall attempt to seek State agency concurrence prior to addressing the exigent circumstance. Once the exigent circumstances have passed, and if the Federal agency is still carrying out an activity with coastal effects, Federal agencies shall comply with all applicable provisions of this subpart to ensure that the activity is consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of management programs. Once the Federal agency has addressed the exigent circumstance or completed its emergency response activities, it shall provide the State agency with a description of its actions and their coastal effects.
(c) A classified activity that affects any coastal use or resource is not exempt from the requirements of this subpart, unless the activity is exempted by the President under section 307(c)(1)(B) of the Act. Under the consistent to the maximum extent practicable standard, the Federal agency
shall provide to the State agency a description of the project and coastal effects that it is legally permitted to release or does not otherwise breach the classified nature of the activity. Even when a Federal agency may not be able to disclose project information, the Federal agency shall conduct the classified activity consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of management programs. The term classified means to protect from disclosure national security information concerning the national defense or foreign policy, provided that the information has been properly classified in accordance with the substantive and procedural requirements of an executive order. Federal and State agencies are encouraged to agree on a qualified third party(ies) with appropriate security clearance(s) to review classified information and to provide non-classified comments regarding the activity's reasonably foreseeable coastal effects.
§ 930.33
Identifying Federal agency activities affecting any coastal use or resource.
(a) Federal agencies shall determine which of their activities affect any coastal use or resource of States with approved management programs.
(1) Effects are determined by looking at reasonably foreseeable direct and indirect effects on any coastal use or resource. An action which has minimal or no environmental effects may still have effects on a coastal use (e.g., effects on public access and recreational opportunities, protection of historic property) or a coastal resource, if the activity initiates an event or series of events where coastal effects are reasonably foreseeable. Therefore, Federal agencies shall, in making a determination of effects, review relevant management program enforceable policies as part of determining effects on any coastal use or resource.
(2) If the Federal agency determines that a Federal agency activity has no effects on any coastal use or resource, and a negative determination under § 930.35 is not required, then the Federal agency is not required to coordinate with State agencies under section 307 of the Act.
(3)(i)
De minimis
Federal agency activities. Federal agencies are encouraged to review their activities, other than development projects within the coastal zone, to identify
de minimis
activities, and request State agency concurrence that these de minimis activities should not be subject to further State agency review.
De minimis
activities shall only be excluded from State agency review if a Federal agency and State agency have agreed. The State agency shall provide for public participation under section 306(d)(14) of the Act when reviewing the Federal agency's
de minimis
activity request. If the State agency objects to the Federal agency's
de minimis
finding then the Federal agency must provide the State agency with either a negative determination or a consistency determination pursuant to this subpart. OCRM is available to facilitate a Federal agency's request.
(ii)
De minimis
activities are activities that are expected to have insignificant direct or indirect (cumulative and secondary) coastal effects and which the State agency concurs are
de minimis.
(4)
Environmentally beneficial activities.
The State agency and Federal agencies may agree to exclude environmentally beneficial Federal agency activities (either on a case-by-case basis or for a category of activities) from further State agency consistency review. Environmentally beneficial activity means an activity that protects, preserves, or restores the natural resources of the coastal zone. The State agency shall provide for public participation under section 306(d)(14) of the Act for the State agency's consideration of whether to exclude environmentally beneficial activities.
(5) General consistency determinations, phased consistency determinations, and national or regional consistency determinations under § 930.36 are also available to facilitate federal-State coordination.
(b) Federal agencies shall consider all development projects within the coastal zone to be activities affecting any coastal use or resource. All other types of activities within the coastal zone are subject to Federal agency review to
determine whether they affect any coastal use or resource.
(c) Federal agency activities and development projects outside of the coastal zone, are subject to Federal agency review to determine whether they affect any coastal use or resource.
(d) Federal agencies shall broadly construe the effects test to provide State agencies with a consistency determination under § 930.34 and not a negative determination under § 930.35 or other determinations of no effects. Early coordination and cooperation between a Federal agency and the State agency can enable the parties to focus their efforts on particular Federal agency activities of concern to the State agency.
§ 930.34
Federal and State agency coordination.
(a)(1) Federal agencies shall provide State agencies with consistency determinations for all Federal agency activities affecting any coastal use or resource. To facilitate State agency review, Federal agencies should coordinate with the State agency prior to providing the determination.
(2)
Use of existing procedures.
Federal agencies are encouraged to coordinate and consult with State agencies through use of existing procedures in order to avoid waste, duplication of effort, and to reduce Federal and State agency administrative burdens. Where necessary, these existing procedures should be modified to facilitate coordination and consultation under the Act.
(b)
Listed activities.
State agencies are strongly encouraged to list in their management programs Federal agency activities which, in the opinion of the State agency, will have reasonably foreseeable coastal effects and therefore, may require a Federal agency consistency determination. Listed Federal agency activities shall be described in terms of the specific type of activity involved (e.g., federal reclamation projects). In the event the State agency chooses to describe Federal agency activities that occur outside of the coastal zone, which the State agency believes will have reasonably foreseeable coastal effects, it shall also describe the geographic location of such activities (e.g., reclamation projects in coastal floodplains).
(c)
Unlisted activities.
State agencies should monitor unlisted Federal agency activities (e.g., by use of intergovernmental review process established pursuant to E.O. 12372, review of NEPA documents, and the
Federal Register
) and should notify Federal agencies of unlisted Federal agency activities which Federal agencies have not subjected to a consistency review but which, in the opinion of the State agency, will have reasonably foreseeable coastal effects and therefore, may require a Federal agency consistency determination. The provisions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are recommended rather than mandatory procedures for facilitating federal-State coordination of Federal agency activities which affect any coastal use or resource. State agency notification to the Federal agency (by listed or unlisted notification) is neither a substitute for nor does it eliminate Federal agency responsibility to comply with the consistency requirement, and to provide State agencies with consistency determinations for all development projects in the coastal zone and for all other Federal agency activities which the Federal agency finds affect any coastal use or resource, regardless of whether the State agency has listed the activity or notified the Federal agency through case-by-case monitoring.
(d)
State guidance and assistance to Federal agencies.
As a preliminary matter, a decision that a Federal agency activity affects any coastal use or resource should lead to early consultation with the State agency (
i.e.,
before the required 90-day period). Federal agencies should obtain the views and assistance of the State agency regarding the means for determining that the proposed activity will be conducted in a manner consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of a management program. As part of its assistance efforts, the State agency shall make available for public inspection copies of the management program document. Upon request by the Federal agency, the State agency shall identify any enforceable policies applicable to the proposed activity
based upon the information provided to the State agency at the time of the request.
§ 930.35
Negative determinations for proposed activities.
(a) If a Federal agency determines that there will not be coastal effects, then the Federal agency shall provide the State agencies with a negative determination for a Federal agency activity:
(1) Identified by a State agency on its list, as described in § 930.34(b), or through case-by-case monitoring of unlisted activities; or
(2) Which is the same as or is similar to activities for which consistency determinations have been prepared in the past; or
(3) For which the Federal agency undertook a thorough consistency assessment and developed initial findings on the coastal effects of the activity.
(b)
Content of a negative determination.
A negative determination may be submitted to State agencies in any written form so long as it contains a brief description of the activity, the activity's location and the basis for the Federal agency's determination that the activity will not affect any coastal use or resource. In determining effects, Federal agencies shall follow § 930.33(a)(1), including an evaluation of the relevant enforceable policies of a management program and include the evaluation in the negative determination. The level of detail in the Federal agency's analysis may vary depending on the scope and complexity of the activity and issues raised by the State agency, but shall be sufficient for the State agency to evaluate whether coastal effects are reasonably foreseeable.
(c) A negative determination under paragraph (a) of this section shall be provided to the State agency at least 90 days before final approval of the activity, unless both the Federal agency and the State agency agree to an alternative notification schedule. A State agency is not obligated to respond to a negative determination. If a State agency does not respond to a Federal agency's negative determination within 60 days, State agency concurrence with the negative determination shall be presumed. State agency concurrence shall not be presumed in cases where the State agency, within the 60-day period, requests an extension of time to review the matter. Federal agencies shall approve one request for an extension period of 15 days or less. If a State agency objects to a negative determination, asserting that coastal effects are reasonably foreseeable, the Federal agency shall consider submitting a consistency determination to the State agency or otherwise attempt to resolve any disagreement within the remainder of the 90-day period. If a Federal agency, in response to a State agency's objection to a negative determination, agrees that coastal effects are reasonably foreseeable, the State agency and Federal agency should attempt to agree to complete the consistency review within the 90-day period for the negative determination or consider an alternative schedule pursuant to § 930.36(b)(1). Federal agencies should consider postponing final Federal agency action, beyond the 90-day period, until a disagreement has been resolved. State agencies are not required to provide public notice of the receipt of a negative determination or the resolution of an objection to a negative determination, unless a Federal agency submits a consistency determination pursuant to § 930.34.
(d)
General negative determinations.
In cases where Federal agencies will be performing a repetitive activity that a Federal agency determines will not have reasonably foreseeable coastal effects, whether performed separately or cumulatively, a Federal agency may provide a State agency(ies) with a general negative determination, thereby avoiding the necessity of issuing separate negative determinations for each occurrence of the activity. A general negative determination must adhere to all requirements for negative determinations under § 930.35. In addition, a general negative determination must describe in detail the activity covered by the general negative determination and the expected number of occurrences of the activity over a specific time period. If a Federal agency issues a general negative determination, it may periodically assess whether the
general negative determination is still applicable.
(e) In the event of a serious disagreement between a Federal agency and a State agency regarding a determination related to whether a proposed activity affects any coastal use or resource, either party may seek the Secretarial mediation or OCRM mediation services provided for in subpart G.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 827, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.36
Consistency determinations for proposed activities.
(a) Federal agencies shall review their proposed Federal agency activities which affect any coastal use or resource in order to develop consistency determinations which indicate whether such activities will be undertaken in a manner consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of approved management programs. Federal agencies should consult with State agencies at an early stage in the development of the proposed activity in order to assess whether such activities will be consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of such programs.
(b)
Timing of consistency determinations.
(1) Federal agencies shall provide State agencies with a consistency determination at the earliest practicable time in the planning or reassessment of the activity. A consistency determination should be prepared following development of sufficient information to reasonably determine the consistency of the activity with the management program, but before the Federal agency reaches a significant point of decisionmaking in its review process,
i.e.
, while the Federal agency has the ability to modify the activity. The consistency determination shall be provided to State agencies at least 90 days before final approval of the Federal agency activity unless both the Federal agency and the State agency agree to an alternative notification schedule.
(2) Federal and State agencies may mutually agree upon procedures for extending the notification requirement beyond 90 days for activities requiring a substantial review period, and for shortening the notification period for activities requiring a less extensive review period, provided that public participation requirements are met.
(c)
General consistency determinations.
In cases where Federal agencies will be performing repeated activity other than a development project (e.g., ongoing maintenance, waste disposal) which cumulatively has an effect upon any coastal use or resource, the Federal agency may develop a general consistency determination, thereby avoiding the necessity of issuing separate consistency determinations for each incremental action controlled by the major activity. A Federal agency may provide a State agency with a general consistency determination only in situations where the incremental actions are repetitive and do not affect any coastal use or resource when performed separately. A Federal agency and State agency may mutually agree on a general consistency determination for de minimis activities (
see
§ 930.33(a)(3)) or any other repetitive activity or category of activity(ies). If a Federal agency issues a general consistency determination, it shall thereafter periodically consult with the State agency to discuss the manner in which the incremental actions are being undertaken.
(d)
Phased consistency determinations.
In cases where the Federal agency has sufficient information to determine the consistency of a proposed development project or other activity from planning to completion, the Federal agency shall provide the State agency with one consistency determination for the entire activity or development project. In cases where federal decisions related to a proposed development project or other activity will be made in phases based upon developing information that was not available at the time of the original consistency determination, with each subsequent phase subject to Federal agency discretion to implement alternative decisions based upon such information (e.g., planning, siting, and design decisions), a consistency determination will be required for each major decision. In cases of phased decisionmaking, Federal agencies shall ensure that the development project or other activity continues to be consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the management program.
(e)
National or regional consistency determinations.
(1) A Federal agency may provide States with consistency determinations for Federal agency activities that are national or regional in scope (e.g., rulemaking, national plans), and that affect any coastal use or resource of more than one State. Many States share common coastal management issues and have similar enforceable policies, e.g., protection of a particular coastal resource. The Federal agency's national or regional consistency determination should, at a minimum, address the common denominator of these policies,
i.e.,
the common coastal effects and management issues, and thereby address different States' policies with one discussion and determination. If a Federal agency decides not to use this section, it must issue consistency determinations to each State agency pursuant to § 930.39.
(2) Federal agency activities with coastal effects shall be consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of each State's management program. Thus, the Federal agency's national or regional consistency determination shall contain sections that would apply to individual States to address coastal effects and enforceable policies unique to particular States, if common coastal effects and enforceable policies cannot be addressed under paragraph (e)(1). Early coordination with coastal States will enable the Federal agency to identify particular coastal management concerns and policies. In addition, the Federal agency could address the concerns of each affected State by providing for State conditions for the proposed activity. Further, the consistency determination could identify the coordination efforts and describe how the Federal agency responded to State agency concerns.
§ 930.37
Consistency determinations and National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requirements.
A Federal agency may use its NEPA documents as a vehicle for its consistency determination or negative determination under this subpart. However, a Federal agency's federal consistency obligations under the Act are independent of those required under NEPA and are not necessarily fulfilled by the submission of a NEPA document. State agencies shall not require Federal agencies to submit NEPA documents as information required pursuant to § 930.39. If a Federal agency includes its consistency determination or negative determination in a NEPA document, the Federal agency shall ensure that the NEPA document includes the information and adheres to the timeframes required by this subpart. Federal agencies and State agencies should mutually agree on how to best coordinate the requirements of NEPA and the Act.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 827, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.38
Consistency determinations for activities initiated prior to management program approval.
(a) A consistency determination is required for ongoing Federal agency activities other than development projects initiated prior to management program approval, which are governed by statutory authority under which the Federal agency retains discretion to reassess and modify the activity. In these cases the consistency determination must be made by the Federal agency at the earliest practicable time following management program approval, and the State agency must be provided with a consistency determination no later than 120 days after management program approval for ongoing activities which the State agency lists or identifies through monitoring as subject to consistency with the management program.
(b) A consistency determination is required for major, phased federal development project decisions described in § 930.36(d) which are made following management program approval and are related to development projects initiated prior to program approval. In making these new decisions, Federal agencies shall consider effects on any coastal use or resource not fully evaluated at the outset of the project. This provision shall not apply to phased federal decisions which were specifically described, considered and approved prior to management program approval (e.g., in a final environmental impact statement issued pursuant to NEPA).
§ 930.39
Content of a consistency determination.
(a) The consistency determination shall include a brief statement indicating whether the proposed activity will be undertaken in a manner consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of the management program. The statement must be based upon an evaluation of the relevant enforceable policies of the management program. A description of this evaluation shall be included in the consistency determination, or provided to the State agency simultaneously with the consistency determination if the evaluation is contained in another document. Where a Federal agency is aware, prior to its submission of its consistency determination, that its activity is not fully consistent with a management program's enforceable policies, the Federal agency shall describe in its consistency determination the legal authority that prohibits full consistency as required by § 930.32(a)(2). Where the Federal agency is not aware of any inconsistency until after submission of its consistency determination, the Federal agency shall submit its description of the legal authority that prohibits full consistency to the State agency as soon as possible, or before the end of the 90-day period described in § 930.36(b)(1). The consistency determination shall also include a detailed description of the activity, its associated facilities, and their coastal effects, and comprehensive data and information sufficient to support the Federal agency's consistency statement. The amount of detail in the evaluation of the enforceable policies, activity description and supporting information shall be commensurate with the expected coastal effects of the activity. The Federal agency may submit the necessary information in any manner it chooses so long as the requirements of this subpart are satisfied.
(b) Federal agencies shall be guided by the following in making their consistency determinations. The activity its effects on any coastal use or resource, associated facilities (e.g., proposed siting and construction of access road, connecting pipeline, support buildings, and the effects of the associated facilities (e.g., erosion, wetlands, beach access impacts), must all be consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of the management program.
(c) In making their consistency determinations, Federal agencies shall ensure that their activities are consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable, policies of the management program. However, Federal agencies should give consideration to management program provisions which are in the nature of recommendations.
(d) When Federal agency standards are more restrictive than standards or requirements contained in the management program, the Federal agency may continue to apply its stricter standards. In such cases the Federal agency shall inform the State agency in the consistency determination of the statutory, regulatory or other basis for the application of the stricter standards.
(e)
State permit requirements.
Federal law, other than the CZMA, may require a Federal agency to obtain a State permit. Even when Federal agencies are not required to obtain State permits, Federal agencies shall still be consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies that are contained in such State permit programs that are part of a management program.
§ 930.40
Multiple Federal agency participation.
Whenever more than one Federal agency is involved in a Federal agency activity or its associated facilities affecting any coastal use or resource, or is involved in a group of Federal agency activities related to each other because of their geographic proximity, the Federal agencies may prepare one consistency determination for all the federal activities involved. In such cases, Federal agencies should consider joint preparation or lead agency development of the consistency determination. In either case, the consistency determination shall be transmitted to the State agency at least 90 days before final decisions are taken by any of the participating agencies and shall comply with the requirements of § 930.39.
§ 930.41
State agency response.
(a) A State agency shall inform the Federal agency of its concurrence with or objection to the Federal agency's consistency determination at the earliest practicable time, after providing for public participation in the State agency's review of the consistency determination. The Federal agency may presume State agency concurrence if the State agency's response is not received within 60 days from receipt of the Federal agency's consistency determination and supporting information required by § 930.39(a). The 60-day review period begins when the State agency receives the consistency determination and supporting information required by § 930.39(a). If the information required by § 930.39(a) is not included with the determination, the State agency shall notify the Federal agency in writing within 14 days of receiving the determination and supporting information that the 60-day review period has not begun, identify missing information required by § 930.39(a), and that the 60-day review period will begin when the missing information is received by the State agency. If the State agency has not notified the Federal agency that information required by § 930.39(a) is missing within the 14 day notification period, then the 60-day review period shall begin on the date the State agency received the consistency determination and accompanying information. The State agency's determination of whether the information required by § 930.39(a) is complete is not a substantive review of the adequacy of the information provided. Thus, if a Federal agency has submitted a consistency determination and information required by § 930.39(a), then the State agency shall not assert that the 60-day review period has not begun because the information contained in the items required by § 930.39(a) is substantively deficient. The failure to submit information not required by 930.39(a) shall not be a basis for asserting that the 60-day review period has not begun.
(b) State agency concurrence shall not be presumed in cases where the State agency, within the 60-day period, requests an extension of time to review the matter. Federal agencies shall approve one request for an extension period of 15 days or less. In considering whether a longer or additional extension period is appropriate, the Federal agency should consider the magnitude and complexity of the information contained in the consistency determination.
(c) Final Federal agency action shall not be taken sooner than 90 days from the receipt by the State agency of the consistency determination unless the State concurs or concurrence is presumed, pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b), with the activity, or unless both the Federal agency and the State agency agree to an alternative period.
(d)
Time limits on concurrences.
A State agency cannot unilaterally place an expiration date on its concurrence. If a State agency believes that an expiration date is necessary, State and Federal agencies may agree to a time limit. If there is no agreement, later phases of, or modifications to, the activity that will have effects not evaluated at the time of the original consistency determination will require either a new consistency determination, a supplemental consistency determination under § 930.46, or a phased review under § 930.36(d) of this subpart.
(e)
State processing fees.
The Act does not require Federal agencies to pay State processing fees. State agencies shall not assess a Federal agency with a fee to process the Federal agency's consistency determination unless payment of such fees is required by other federal law or otherwise agreed to by the Federal agency and allowed by the Comptroller General of the United States. In no case may a State agency stay the consistency review period or base its objection on the failure of a Federal agency to pay a fee.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 827, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.42
Public participation.
(a) Management programs shall provide for public participation in the State agency's review of consistency determinations. Public participation, at a minimum, shall consist of public notice for the area(s) of the coastal zone likely to be affected by the activity, as determined by the State agency.
(b)
Timing of public notice.
States shall provide timely public notice after the consistency determination has been received by the State agency, except in cases where earlier public notice on the consistency determination by the Federal agency or the State agency meets the requirements of this section. A public comment period shall be provided by the State sufficient to give the public an opportunity to develop and provide comments on whether the project is consistent with management program enforceable policies and still allow the State agency to issue its concurrence or objection within the 60 day State response period.
(c)
Content of public notice.
The public notice shall:
(1) Specify that the proposed activity is subject to review for consistency with the enforceable policies of the management program;
(2) Provide sufficient information to serve as a basis for comment;
(3) Specify a source for additional information, e.g., a State agency web site; and
(4) Specify a contact for submitting comments to the State agency.
(d) Procedural options that may be used by the State agency for issuance of public notice include, but are not limited to, public notice through an official State gazette, a local newspaper serving areas of coastal zone likely to be affected by the activity, individual State mailings, public notice through a management program newsletter, and electronic notices, e.g., web sites. However, electronic notices, e.g., web sites, shall not be the sole source of a public notification, but may be used in conjunction with other means. Web sites may be used to provide a location for the public to obtain additional information. States shall not require that the Federal agency provide public notice. Federal and State agencies are encouraged to issue joint public notices, and hold joint public hearings, to minimize duplication of effort and to avoid unnecessary delays, so long as the joint notice meets the other requirements of this section.
§ 930.43
State agency objection.
(a) In the event the State agency objects to the Federal agency's consistency determination, the State agency shall accompany its response to the Federal agency with its reasons for the objection and supporting information. The State agency response shall describe:
(1) How the proposed activity will be inconsistent with specific enforceable policies of the management program; and
(2) The specific enforceable policies (including citations).
(3) The State agency should also describe alternative measures (if they exist) which, if adopted by the Federal agency, would allow the activity to proceed in a manner consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of the management program. Failure to describe alternatives does not affect the validity of the State agency's objection.
(b) If the State agency's objection is based upon a finding that the Federal agency has failed to supply sufficient information, the State agency's response must describe the nature of the information requested and the necessity of having such information to determine the consistency of the Federal agency activity with the enforceable policies of the management program.
(c) State agencies shall send to the Director a copy of objections to Federal agency consistency determinations.
(d) In the event of an objection, Federal and State agencies should use the remaining portion of the 90-day notice period (
see
§ 930.36(b)) to attempt to resolve their differences. If resolution has not been reached at the end of the 90-day period, Federal agencies should consider using the dispute resolution mechanisms of this part and postponing final federal action until the problems have been resolved. At the end of the 90-day period the Federal agency shall not proceed with the activity over a State agency's objection unless:
(1) the Federal agency has concluded that under the “consistent to the maximum extent practicable” standard described in section 930.32 consistency with the enforceable policies of the management program is prohibited by existing law applicable to the Federal agency and the Federal agency has
clearly described, in writing, to the State agency the legal impediments to full consistency (See §§ 930.32(a) and 930.39(a)), or
(2) the Federal agency has concluded that its proposed action is fully consistent with the enforceable policies of the management program, though the State agency objects.
(e) If a Federal agency decides to proceed with a Federal agency activity that is objected to by a State agency, or to follow an alternative suggested by the State agency, the Federal agency shall notify the State agency of its decision to proceed before the project commences.
§ 930.44
Availability of mediation for disputes concerning proposed activities.
In the event of a serious disagreement between a Federal agency and a State agency regarding the consistency of a proposed federal activity affecting any coastal use or resource, either party may request the Secretarial mediation or OCRM mediation services provided for in subpart G.
§ 930.45
Availability of mediation for previously reviewed activities.
(a) Federal and State agencies shall cooperate in their efforts to monitor federally approved activities in order to make certain that such activities continue to be undertaken in a manner consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of the management program.
(b) The State agency may request that the Federal agency take appropriate remedial action following a serious disagreement resulting from a Federal agency activity, including those activities where the State agency's concurrence was presumed, which was:
(1) Previously determined to be consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the management program, but which the State agency later maintains is being conducted or is having an effect on any coastal use or resource substantially different than originally described and, as a result, is no longer consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of the management program; or
(2) Previously determined not to be a Federal agency activity affecting any coastal use or resource, but which the State agency later maintains is being conducted or is having an effect on any coastal use or resource substantially different than originally described and, as a result, the activity affects any coastal use or resource and is not consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of the management program. The State agency's request shall include supporting information and a proposal for recommended remedial action.
(c) If, after a reasonable time following a request for remedial action, the State agency still maintains that a serious disagreement exists, either party may request the Secretarial mediation or OCRM mediation services provided for in subpart G of this part.
§ 930.46
Supplemental coordination for proposed activities.
(a) For proposed Federal agency activities that were previously determined by the State agency to be consistent with the management program, but which have not yet begun, Federal agencies shall further coordinate with the State agency and prepare a supplemental consistency determination if the proposed activity will affect any coastal use or resource substantially different than originally described. Substantially different coastal effects are reasonably foreseeable if:
(1) The Federal agency makes substantial changes in the proposed activity that are relevant to management program enforceable policies; or
(2) There are significant new circumstances or information relevant to the proposed activity and the proposed activity's effect on any coastal use or resource.
(3) Substantial changes were made to the activity during the period of the State agency's initial review and the State agency did not receive notice of the substantial changes during its review period, and these changes are relevant to management program enforceable policies and/or affect coastal uses or resources.
(b) The State agency may notify the Federal agency and the Director of proposed activities which the State agency believes should be subject to supplemental coordination. The State agency's notification shall include information supporting a finding of substantially different coastal effects than originally described and the relevant enforceable policies, and may recommend modifications to the proposed activity (if any) that would allow the Federal agency to implement the proposed activity consistent with the enforceable policies of the management program. State agency notification under this paragraph (b) does not remove the requirement under paragraph (a) of this section for Federal agencies to notify State agencies.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 828, Jan. 5, 2006]

# Subpart D—Consistency for Activities Requiring a Federal License or Permit
§ 930.50
Objectives.
The provisions of this subpart are intended to ensure that any required federal license or permit activity affecting any coastal use or resource is conducted in a manner consistent with approved management programs. The provisions of subpart I of this part are intended to supplement the provisions of this subpart for federal license or permit activities having interstate coastal effects.
§ 930.51
Federal license or permit.
(a) The term “federal license or permit” means any authorization that an applicant is required by law to obtain in order to conduct activities affecting any land or water use or natural resource of the coastal zone and that any Federal agency is empowered to issue to an applicant. The term “federal license or permit” does not include OCS plans, and federal license or permit activities described in detail in OCS plans, which are subject to subpart E of this part, or leases issued pursuant to lease sales conducted by a Federal agency (e.g., outer continental shelf (OCS) oil and gas lease sales conducted by the Minerals Management Service or oil and gas lease sales conducted by the Bureau of Land Management). Lease sales conducted by a Federal agency are Federal agency activities under subpart C of this part.
(b) The term also includes the following types of renewals and major amendments which affect any coastal use or resource:
(1) Renewals and major amendments of federal license or permit activities not previously reviewed by the State agency;
(2) Renewals and major amendments of federal license or permit activities previously reviewed by the State agency which are filed after and are subject to management program changes not in existence at the time of original State agency review; and
(3) Renewals and major amendments of federal license or permit activities previously reviewed by the State agency which will cause an effect on any coastal use or resource substantially different than those originally reviewed by the State agency.
(c) The term “major amendment” of a federal license or permit activity means any subsequent federal approval that the applicant is required to obtain for modification to the previously reviewed and approved activity and where the activity permitted by issuance of the subsequent approval will affect any coastal use or resource, or, in the case of a major amendment subject to § 930.51(b)(3), affect any coastal use or resource in a way that is substantially different than the description or understanding of effects at the time of the original activity.
(d) The term “renewals” of a federal license or permit activity means any subsequent re-issuance, re-approval or extension of an existing license or permit that the applicant is required to obtain for an activity described under paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) The determination of substantially different coastal effects under paragraphs (b)(3), and (c) of this section is made on a case-by-case basis by the Federal agency after consulting with the State agency, and applicant. The Federal agency shall give considerable weight to the opinion of the State agency. The terms “major amendment,” “renewals” and “substantially
different” shall be construed broadly to ensure that the State agency has the opportunity to review activities and coastal effects not previously reviewed.
(f)
This subpart applies to active applications.
If an applicant withdraws its application to the Federal agency, then the consistency process is terminated. If the applicant reapplies to the Federal agency, then a new consistency review process will start. If a Federal agency stops or stays the Federal license or permit application process, then the consistency review period will be stopped or stayed for the same amount of time as for the Federal application process.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 827, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.52
Applicant.
The term “applicant” means any individual, public or private corporation, partnership, association, or other entity organized or existing under the laws of any nation, State, or any State, regional, or local government, who, following management program approval, either files an application for a required individual federal license or permit, or who files a consistency certification for a required general federal license or permit under § 930.31(d) to conduct an activity affecting any coastal use or resource. The term “applicant” does not include Federal agencies applying for federal licenses or permits. Federal agency activities requiring federal licenses or permits are subject to subpart C of this part.
§ 930.53
Listed federal license or permit activities.
(a) State agencies shall develop a list of federal license or permit activities which affect any coastal use or resource, including reasonably foreseeable effects, and which the State agency wishes to review for consistency with the management program. The list shall be included as part of the management program, and the federal license or permit activities shall be described in terms of the specific licenses or permits involved (e.g., Corps of Engineers 404 permits, Coast Guard bridge permits). In the event the State agency chooses to review federal license or permit activities, with reasonably foreseeable coastal effects, outside of the coastal zone, it must generally describe the geographic location of such activities.
(1) The geographic location description should encompass areas outside of the coastal zone where coastal effects from federal license or permit activities are reasonably foreseeable. The State agency should exclude geographic areas outside of the coastal zone where coastal effects are not reasonably foreseeable. Listed activities may have different geographic location descriptions, depending on the nature of the activity and its coastal effects. For example, the geographic location for activities affecting water resources or uses could be described by shared water bodies, river basins, boundaries defined under the State's coastal nonpoint pollution control program, or other ecologically identifiable areas. Federal lands located within the boundaries of a State's coastal zone are automatically included within the geographic location description; State agencies do not have to describe these areas. State agencies do have to describe the geographic location of listed activities occurring on federal lands located beyond the boundaries of a State's coastal zone.
(2) For listed activities occurring outside of the coastal zone for which a State has not generally described the geographic location of review, States must follow the conditions for review of unlisted activities under § 930.54 of this subpart.
(b)
General concurrences for minor activities.
To avoid repeated review of minor federal license or permit activities which, while individually inconsequential, cumulatively affect any coastal use or resource, the State agency, after developing conditions allowing concurrence for such activities, may issue a general public notice (
see
§ 930.61) and general concurrence allowing similar minor work in the same geographic area to proceed without prior State agency review. In such cases, the State agency must set forth in the management program license and permit list the minor federal license or permit activities and the relevant conditions which are covered by the general concurrence. Minor federal license
or permit activities which satisfy the conditions of the general concurrence are not subject to the consistency certification requirement of this subpart. Except in cases where the State agency indicates otherwise, copies of federal license or permit applications for activities subject to a general concurrence must be sent by the applicant to the State agency to allow the State agency to monitor adherence to the conditions required by such concurrence. Confidential and proprietary material within such applications may be deleted.
(c) The license and permit list may be amended by the State agency following consultation with the affected Federal agency and approval by the Director pursuant to the program change requirements found at 15 CFR part 923, subpart H.
(1) Consultation with the affected Federal agency means, at least 60 days prior to submitting a program change request to OCRM, a State agency shall notify in writing the relevant regional or field Federal agency staff and the head of the affected Federal agency, and request comments on the listing change. The notification shall describe the proposed change and identify the regional Federal agency staff the State has contacted for consultation.
(2) A State agency must include in its program change request to OCRM a description of any comments received from the affected Federal agency.
(d) No federal license or permit described on an approved list shall be issued by a Federal agency until the requirements of this subpart have been satisfied. Federal agencies shall inform applicants for listed licenses or permits of the requirements of this subpart.
§ 930.54
Unlisted federal license or permit activities.
(a)(1) With the assistance of Federal agencies, State agencies should monitor unlisted federal license or permit activities (e.g., by use of intergovernmental review process established pursuant to E.O. 12372, review of NEPA documents,
Federal Register
notices). State agencies shall notify Federal agencies, applicants, and the Director of unlisted activities affecting any coastal use or resource which require State agency review within 30 days from notice of the license or permit application, that has been submitted to the approving Federal agency, otherwise the State agency waives its right to review the unlisted activity. The waiver does not apply in cases where the State agency does not receive notice of the federal license or permit application.
(2) Federal agencies or applicants should provide written notice of the submission of applications for federal licenses or permits for unlisted activities to the State agency. Notice to the State agency may be constructive if notice is published in an official federal public notification document or through an official State clearinghouse (
i.e.,
the
Federal Register,
draft or final NEPA EISs that are submitted to the State agency, or a State's intergovernmental review process). The notice, whether actual or constructive, shall contain sufficient information for the State agency to learn of the activity, determine the activity's geographic location, and determine whether coastal effects are reasonably foreseeable.
(b) The State agency's notification shall also request the Director's approval to review the unlisted activity and shall contain an analysis that supports the State agency's assertion that coastal effects are reasonably foreseeable. Following State agency notification to the Federal agency, applicant and the Director, the Federal agency shall not issue the license or permit until the requirements of this subpart have been satisfied, unless the Director disapproves the State agency's request to review the activity.
(c) The Federal agency and the applicant have 15 days from receipt of the State agency notice to provide comments to the Director regarding the State agency's request to review the activity. The sole basis for the Director's approval or disapproval of the State agency's request will relate to whether the proposed activity's coastal effects are reasonably foreseeable. The Director shall issue a decision, with supporting comments, to the State agency, Federal agency and applicant within 30 days from receipt of the State agency notice. The Director may extend the decision deadline beyond 30
days due to the complexity of the issues or to address the needs of the State agency, the Federal agency, or the applicant. The Director shall consult with the State agency, the Federal agency and the applicant prior to extending the decision deadline, and shall limit the extension to the minimum time necessary to make its decision. The Director shall notify the relevant parties of the expected length of an extension.
(d) If the Director disapproves the State agency's request, the Federal agency may approve the license or permit application and the applicant need not comply with the requirements of this subpart. If the Director approves the State agency's request, the Federal agency and applicant must comply with the consistency certification procedures of this subpart.
(e) Following an approval by the Director, the applicant shall amend the federal application by including a consistency certification and shall provide the State agency with a copy of the certification along with necessary data and information (
see
§§ 930.58, 930.62 and 930.63). For the purposes of this section, concurrence by the State agency shall be conclusively presumed in the absence of a State agency objection within six months from the original Federal agency notice to the State agency (
see
paragraph (a) of this section) or within three months from receipt of the applicant's consistency certification and necessary data and information, whichever period terminates last.
(f) The unlisted activity procedures in this section are provided to ensure that State agencies are afforded an opportunity to review federal license or permit activities with reasonably foreseeable coastal effects. Prior to bringing the issue before the Director, the concerned parties should discuss coastal effects and consistency. The applicant can avoid delay by simply seeking the State agency's expeditious concurrence rather than waiting for the Director's decision. If an applicant, of its own accord or after negotiations with the State agency, provides a consistency certification and necessary data and information to the State agency, the review shall be deemed to have received the Director's approval, and all of the provisions of this subpart shall apply and the State agency need not request the Director's approval. If an applicant for an unlisted activity has not subjected itself to the consistency process within the 30 day notification period contained in paragraph (a) of this section, the State agency must adhere to the unlisted activity review requirements of this section to preserve its right to review the activity.
§ 930.55
Availability of mediation for license or permit disputes.
In the event of a serious disagreement between a Federal and State agency regarding whether a listed or unlisted federal license or permit activity is subject to the federal consistency requirement, either party may request the OCRM mediation or Secretarial mediation services provided for in subpart G of this part; notice shall be provided to the applicant. The existence of a serious disagreement will not relieve the Federal agency from the responsibility for withholding approval of a license or permit application for an activity on an approved management program list (
see
§ 930.53) or individually approved by the Director (
see
§ 930.54) pending satisfaction of the requirements of this subpart. Similarly, the existence of a serious disagreement will not prevent the Federal agency from approving a license or permit activity which has not received Director approval.
§ 930.56
State agency guidance and assistance to applicants.
As a preliminary matter, any applicant for a federal license or permit selected for review by a State agency should obtain the views and assistance of the State agency regarding the means for ensuring that the proposed activity will be conducted in a manner consistent with the management program. As part of its assistance efforts, the State agency shall make available for public inspection copies of the management program document. Upon request by the applicant, the State agency shall identify any enforceable policies applicable to the proposed activity, based upon the information submitted to the State agency.
§ 930.57
Consistency certifications.
(a) Following appropriate coordination and cooperation with the State agency, all applicants for required federal licenses or permits subject to State agency review shall provide in the application to the federal licensing or permitting agency a certification that the proposed activity complies with and will be conducted in a manner consistent with the management program. At the same time, the applicant shall furnish to the State agency a copy of the certification and necessary data and information.
(b) The applicant's consistency certification shall be in the following form: “The proposed activity complies with the enforceable policies of (name of State) approved management program and will be conducted in a manner consistent with such program.”
§ 930.58
Necessary data and information.
(a) The applicant shall furnish the State agency with necessary data and information along with the consistency certification. Such information and data shall include the following:
(1) A copy of the application for the federal license or permit and
(i) All material relevant to a State's management program provided to the Federal agency in support of the application; and
(ii) To the extent not included in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(1)(i) of this section, a detailed description of the proposed activity, its associated facilities, the coastal effects, and any other information relied upon by the applicant to make its certification. Maps, diagrams, and technical data shall be submitted when a written description alone will not adequately describe the proposal;
(2) Information specifically identified in the management program as required necessary data and information for an applicant's consistency certification. The management program as originally approved or amended (pursuant to 15 CFR part 923, subpart H) may describe data and information necessary to assess the consistency of federal license or permit activities. Necessary data and information may include completed State or local government permit applications which are required for the proposed activity, but shall not include the issued State or local permits. NEPA documents shall not be considered necessary data and information when a Federal statute requires a Federal agency to initiate the CZMA federal consistency review prior to its completion of NEPA compliance. States shall not require that the consistency certification and/or the necessary data and information be included in NEPA documents. Required data and information may not include confidential and proprietary material; and
(3) An evaluation that includes a set of findings relating the coastal effects of the proposal and its associated facilities to the relevant enforceable policies of the management program. Applicants shall demonstrate that the activity will be consistent with the enforceable policies of the management program. Applicants shall demonstrate adequate consideration of policies which are in the nature of recommendations. Applicants need not make findings with respect to coastal effects for which the management program does not contain enforceable or recommended policies.
(b) At the request of the applicant, interested parties who have access to information and data required by this section may provide the State agency with all or part of the material required. Furthermore, upon request by the applicant, the State agency shall provide assistance for developing the assessment and findings required by this section.
(c) When satisfied that adequate protection against public disclosure exists, applicants should provide the State agency with confidential and proprietary information which the State agency maintains is necessary to make a reasoned decision on the consistency of the proposal. State agency requests for such information must be related to the necessity of having such information to assess adequately the coastal effects of the proposal.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 827, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.59
Multiple permit review.
(a) Applicants shall, to the extent practicable, consolidate related federal
license or permit activities affecting any coastal use or resource for State agency review. State agencies shall, to the extent practicable, provide applicants with a “one-stop” multiple permit review for consolidated permits to minimize duplication of effort and to avoid unnecessary delays.
(b) A State agency objection to one or more of the license or permit activities submitted for consolidated review shall not prevent the applicant from receiving Federal agency approval for those license or permit activities found to be consistent with the management program.
§ 930.60
Commencement of State agency review.
(a) The State agency's six-month review period (
see
§ 930.62(a)) of an applicant's consistency certification begins on the date the State agency receives the consistency certification required by § 930.57 and all the necessary data and information required by § 930.58(a).
(1) If an applicant fails to submit a consistency certification, the State agency shall notify the applicant and the Federal agency, within 30 days of receipt of the incomplete submission, that a consistency certification satisfying § 930.57 was not received and that the State agency's six-month review period will commence on the date of receipt of the missing certification, subject to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) If an applicant fails to submit all necessary data and information required by § 930.58(a), the State agency shall notify the applicant and the Federal agency, within 30 days of receipt of the incomplete submission, that necessary data and information described in § 930.58(a) was not received and that the State agency's six-month review period will commence on the date of receipt of the missing necessary data and information, subject to the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section that the applicant has also submitted a consistency certification. The State agency may waive the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section that all necessary data and information described in § 930.58(a) be submitted before commencement of the State agency's six-month consistency review. In the event of such a waiver, the requirements of § 930.58(a) must be satisfied prior to the end of the six-month consistency review period or the State agency may object to the consistency certification for insufficient information.
(3) Within 30 days of receipt of the consistency certification and/or necessary data and information that was deemed missing, pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section, the State agency shall notify the applicant and Federal agency that the certification and necessary data and information required pursuant to § 930.58 is complete, the date the certification and/or necessary data and information deemed missing was received, and, that the State agency's consistency review commenced on the date of receipt. In the event of a State waiver under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, receipt of the necessary data and information deemed missing shall not alter the date the consistency review period commenced.
(b) State agencies and applicants (and persons under subpart E of this part) may mutually agree in writing to stay the six-month consistency review period. Such an agreement shall be in writing and state a specific date on when the stay will end. The State agency shall provide a copy of the written agreement to the Federal agency and the Federal agency shall not presume State agency concurrence with an applicant's consistency certification when such a written agreement to stay the six-month consistency review period is in effect. The State agency shall not stop, stay, or otherwise alter the consistency review period without such a written agreement with the applicant.
(c) The State agency's determination that a certification and necessary data and information under paragraph (a) of this section is complete is not a substantive review of the adequacy of the information received. If an applicant has submitted all necessary data and information required by § 930.58, then a State agency's or Federal agency's assertion that the submitted information is substantively deficient, or a State agency's or Federal agency's request for clarification of the information
provided, or information or data requested that is in addition to that required by § 930.58 shall not extend the date of commencement of State agency review.
[71 FR 827, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.61
Public participation.
(a) Following receipt of the material described in § 930.60 the State agency shall ensure timely public notice of the proposed activity. Public notice shall be provided for the area(s) of the coastal zone likely to be affected by the proposed activity, as determined by the State agency. At the discretion of the State agency, public participation may include one or more public hearings. The State agency shall not require an applicant or a Federal agency to hold a public hearing. State agencies should restrict the period of public notice, receipt of comments, hearing proceedings and final decision-making to the minimum time necessary to reasonably inform the public, obtain sufficient comment, and develop a decision on the matter.
(b)
Content of public notice.
The public notice shall:
(1) Specify that the proposed activity is subject to review for consistency under the policies of the management program;
(2) Provide sufficient information to serve as a basis for comment;
(3) Specify a source for additional information; and
(4) Specify a contact for submitting comments to the management program.
(c) Procedural options that may be used by the State agency for issuance of public notice include, but are not limited to, public notice through an official State gazette, a local newspaper serving areas of the coastal zone likely to be affected by the activity, individual State mailings, public notice through a management program newsletter, and electronic notices, e.g., web sites. However, electronic notices, e.g., web sites, shall not be the sole source of a public notification, but may be used in conjunction with other means. Web sites may be used to provide a location for the public to obtain additional information. The State agency may require the applicant to provide the public notice. State agencies shall not require that the Federal agency provide public notice. The State agency may rely upon the public notice provided by the Federal agency reviewing the application for the federal license or permit (e.g., notice of availability of NEPA documents) if such notice satisfies the minimum requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d) Federal and State agencies are encouraged to issue joint public notices, and hold joint public hearings, whenever possible to minimize duplication of effort and to avoid unnecessary delays.
§ 930.62
State agency concurrence with a consistency certification.
(a) At the earliest practicable time, the State agency shall notify the Federal agency and the applicant whether the State agency concurs with or objects to a consistency certification. The State agency may issue a general concurrence for minor activities (
see
§ 930.53(b)). Concurrence by the State agency shall be conclusively presumed if the State agency's response is not received within six months following commencement of State agency review.
(b) If the State agency has not issued a decision within three months following commencement of State agency review, it shall notify the applicant and the Federal agency of the status of the matter and the basis for further delay.
(c) If the State agency issues a concurrence or is conclusively presumed to concur with the applicant's consistency certification, the Federal agency may approve the federal license or permit application. Notwithstanding State agency concurrence with a consistency certification, the federal permitting agency may deny approval of the federal license or permit application. Federal agencies should not delay processing applications pending receipt of a State agency's concurrence. In the event a Federal agency determines that an application will not be approved, it shall immediately notify the applicant and the State agency.
(d) During the period when the State agency is reviewing the consistency
certification, the applicant and the State agency should attempt, if necessary, to agree upon conditions, which, if met by the applicant, would permit State agency concurrence. The parties shall also consult with the Federal agency responsible for approving the federal license or permit to ensure that proposed conditions satisfy federal as well as management program requirements (
see also
§ 930.4).
§ 930.63
State agency objection to a consistency certification.
(a) If the State agency objects to the applicant's consistency certification within six months following commencement of review, it shall notify the applicant, Federal agency and Director of the objection. A State agency may assert alternative bases for its objection, as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) State agency objections that are based on sufficient information to evaluate the applicant's consistency certification shall describe how the proposed activity is inconsistent with specific enforceable policies of the management program. The objection may describe alternative measures (if they exist) which, if adopted by the applicant, may permit the proposed activity to be conducted in a manner consistent with the enforceable policies of the management program.
(c) A State agency objection may be based upon a determination that the applicant has failed, following a written State agency request, to supply the information required pursuant to § 930.58 or other information necessary for the State agency to determine consistency. If the State agency objects on the grounds of insufficient information, the objection shall describe the nature of the information requested and the necessity of having such information to determine the consistency of the activity with the management program. The objection may describe alternative measures (if they exist) which, if adopted by the applicant, may permit the proposed activity to be conducted in a manner consistent with the enforceable policies of the management program.
(d)
Alternatives.
If a State agency proposes an alternative(s) in its objection letter, the alternative(s) shall be described with sufficient specificity to allow the applicant to determine whether to, in consultation with the State agency: adopt an alternative; abandon the project; or file an appeal under subpart H. Application of the specificity requirement demands a case specific approach. More complicated activities or alternatives generally need more information than less-complicated activities or alternatives. See § 930.121(c) for further details regarding alternatives for appeals under subpart H of this part.
(e) A State agency objection shall include a statement to the following effect:
Pursuant to 15 CFR part 930, subpart H, and within 30 days from receipt of this letter, you may request that the Secretary of Commerce override this objection. In order to grant an override request, the Secretary must find that the activity is consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Coastal Zone Management Act, or is necessary in the interest of national security. A copy of the request and supporting information must be sent to the [Name of State] management program and the federal permitting or licensing agency. The Secretary may collect fees from you for administering and processing your request.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 828, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.64
Federal permitting agency responsibility.
Following receipt of a State agency objection to a consistency certification, the Federal agency shall not issue the federal license or permit except as provided in subpart H of this part.
§ 930.65
Remedial action for previously reviewed activities.
(a) Federal and State agencies shall cooperate in their efforts to monitor federal license or permit activities in order to make certain that such activities continue to conform to both federal and State requirements.
(b) The State agency shall notify the relevant Federal agency representative for the area involved of any federal license or permit activity which the State agency claims was:
(1) Previously determined to be consistent with the management program,
but which the State agency later maintains is being conducted or is having an effect on any coastal use or resource substantially different than originally described and, as a result, is no longer consistent with the management program; or
(2) Previously determined not to be an activity affecting any coastal use or resource, but which the State agency later maintains is being conducted or is having coastal effects substantially different than originally described and, as a result, the activity affects any coastal use or resource in a manner inconsistent with the management program.
(c) The State agency notification shall include:
(1) A description of the activity involved and the alleged lack of compliance with the management program;
(2) supporting information; and
(3) a request for appropriate remedial action. A copy of the request shall be sent to the applicant and the Director. Remedial actions shall be linked to coastal effects substantially different than originally described.
(d) If, after 30 days following a request for remedial action, the State agency still maintains that the applicant is failing to comply substantially with the management program, the governor or State agency may file a written objection with the Director. If the Director finds that the applicant is conducting an activity that is substantially different from the approved activity, the applicant shall submit an amended or new consistency certification and supporting information to the Federal agency and to the State agency, or comply with the originally approved certification.
(e) An applicant shall be found to be conducting an activity substantially different from the approved activity if the State agency claims and the Director finds that the activity affects any coastal use or resource substantially different than originally described by the applicant and, as a result, the activity is no longer being conducted in a manner consistent with the enforceable policies of the management program. The Director may make a finding that an applicant is conducting an activity substantially different from the approved activity only after providing 15 days for the applicant and the Federal agency to review the State agency's objection and to submit comments for the Director's consideration.
§ 930.66
Supplemental coordination for proposed activities.
(a) For federal license or permit proposed activities that were previously determined by the State agency to be consistent with the management program, but which have not yet begun, applicants shall further coordinate with the State agency and prepare a supplemental consistency certification if the proposed activity will affect any coastal use or resource substantially different than originally described. Substantially different coastal effects are reasonably foreseeable if:
(1) The applicant makes substantial changes in the proposed activity that are relevant to management program enforceable policies; or
(2) There are significant new circumstances or information relevant to the proposed activity and the proposed activity's effect on any coastal use or resource.
(3) Substantial changes were made to the activity during the period of the State agency's initial review and the State agency did not receive notice of the substantial changes during its review period, and these changes are relevant to management program enforceable policies and/or affect coastal uses or resources.
(b) The State agency may notify the applicant, the Federal agency and the Director of proposed activities which the State agency believes should be subject to supplemental coordination. The State agency's notification shall include information supporting a finding of substantially different coastal effects than originally described and the relevant enforceable policies, and may recommend modifications to the proposed activity (if any) that would allow the applicant to implement the proposed activity consistent with the management program. State agency notification under subsection (b) does
not remove the requirement under subsection (a) for applicants to notify State agencies.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 828, Jan. 5, 2006]

# Subpart E—Consistency for Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Exploration, Development and Production Activities
§ 930.70
Objectives.
The provisions of this subpart are intended to ensure that all federal license or permit activities described in detail in OCS plans and which affect any coastal use or resource are conducted in a manner consistent with approved management programs.
§ 930.71
Federal license or permit activity described in detail.
The term “federal license or permit activity described in detail” means any activity requiring a federal license or permit, as defined in § 930.51, which the Secretary of the Interior determines must be described in detail within an OCS plan.
§ 930.72
Person.
The term “person” means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, or other entity organized or existing under the laws of any State; the federal government; any State, regional, or local government; or any entity of such federal, State, regional or local government, who submits to the Secretary of the Interior, or designee following management program approval, an OCS plan which describes in detail federal license or permit activities.
§ 930.73
OCS plan.
(a) The term “OCS plan” means any plan for the exploration or development of, or production from, any area which has been leased under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
), and the regulations under that Act, which is submitted to the Secretary of the Interior or designee following management program approval and which describes in detail federal license or permit activities.
(b) The requirements of this subpart do not apply to federal license or permit applications filed after management program approval for activities described in detail in OCS plans approved by the Secretary of the Interior or designee prior to management program approval.
§ 930.74
OCS activities subject to State agency review.
Except for States which do not anticipate coastal effects resulting from OCS activities, management program lists required pursuant to § 930.53 shall include a reference to OCS plans which describe in detail federal license or permit activities affecting any coastal use or resource.
§ 930.75
State agency assistance to persons.
As a preliminary matter, any person intending to submit to the Secretary of the Interior an OCS plan which describes in detail federal license or permit activities affecting any coastal use or resource should obtain the views and assistance of the State agency regarding the means for ensuring that such activities will be conducted in a manner consistent with the management program. As part of its assistance efforts, the State agency shall make available for inspection copies of the management program document. Upon request by such persons, the State agency shall identify any enforceable policies applicable to the proposed activities, based upon the information submitted to the State agency.
§ 930.76
Submission of an OCS plan, necessary data and information and consistency certification.
Any person submitting any OCS plan to the Secretary of the Interior or designee shall:
(a) Any person submitting any OCS plan to the Secretary of the Interior or designee shall submit to the Secretary of the Interior or designee:
(1) A copy of the OCS plan;
(2) The consistency certification;
(3) The necessary data and information required pursuant to § 930.58; and
(4) The information submitted pursuant to the Department of the Interior's OCS operating regulations (
see
30 CFR
250.203 and 250.204) and OCS information program regulations (
see
30 CFR part 252).
(b) The Secretary of the Interior or designee shall furnish the State agency with a copy of the information submitted under paragraph (a) of this section (excluding confidential and proprietary information).
(c) The person's consistency certification shall be in the following form:
The proposed activities described in detail in this plan comply with (name of State(s)) approved management program(s) and will be conducted in a manner consistent with such program(s).
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 828, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.77
Commencement of State agency review and public notice.
(a)(1) Except as provided in § 930.60(a), State agency review of the person's consistency certification begins at the time the State agency receives the certification and information required pursuant to § 930.76(a) and (b). If a person has submitted the documents required by § 930.76(a) and (b), then a State agency's assertion that the information contained in the submitted documents is substantively deficient, or a State agency's request for clarification of the information provided, or information and data in addition to that required by § 930.76 shall not delay or otherwise change the date on which State agency review begins.
(2) To assess consistency, the State agency shall use the information submitted pursuant to § 930.76. If a State agency wants to augment the necessary data and information required by § 930.76 to start the six-month review period for OCS plans, then the State can only do so if it amends its management program to include the information under § 930.58(a)(2).
(3) After the State agency's review begins, if the State agency requests additional information, it shall describe in writing to the person and to the Secretary of the Interior or its designee the reasons why the information provided under § 930.76 is not adequate to complete its review, and the nature of the information requested and the necessity of having such information to determine consistency with the enforceable policies of the management program. The State agency shall make its request for additional information no later than three months after commencement of the State agency's review period. The State agency shall not request additional information after the three-month notification period described in § 930.78(a). However, the State agency may request additional information after the three-month notification period if the person or the Secretary of the Interior or its designee changes the OCS plan after the three-month notification period such that the plan describes activities or coastal effects not previously described and for which information was not previously provided pursuant to § 930.76.
(b) Following receipt of the material described in paragraph (a) of this section, the State agency shall ensure timely public notice of the proposed activities in accordance with § 930.61.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 828, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.78
State agency concurrence or objection.
(a) At the earliest practicable time, the State agency shall notify in writing the person, the Secretary of the Interior or designee and the Director of its concurrence with or objection to the consistency certification. State agencies should restrict the period of public notice, receipt of comments, hearing proceedings and final decision-making to the minimum time necessary to reasonably inform the public, obtain sufficient comment, and develop a decision on the matter. If the State agency has not issued a decision within three months following commencement of State agency review, it shall notify the person, the Secretary of the Interior or designee and the Director of the status of review and the basis for further delay in issuing a final decision. Notice shall be in written form and postmarked no later than three months following the commencement of the State agency's review. Concurrence by the State agency shall be conclusively presumed if the notification required by this subparagraph is not provided.
(b) Concurrence by the State agency shall be conclusively presumed if the
State agency's response to the consistency certification is not received within six months following commencement of State agency review.
(c) If the State agency objects to one or more of the federal license or permit activities described in detail in the OCS plan, it must provide a separate discussion for each objection in accordance with § 930.63.
§ 930.79
Effect of State agency concurrence.
(a) If the State agency issues a concurrence or is conclusively presumed to concur with the person's consistency certification, the person will not be required to submit additional consistency certifications and supporting information for State agency review at the time federal applications are actually filed for the federal licenses or permits to which such concurrence applies.
(b) Unless the State agency indicates otherwise, copies of federal license or permit applications for activities described in detail in an OCS plan which has received State agency concurrence shall be sent by the person to the State agency to allow the State agency to monitor the activities. Confidential and proprietary material within such applications may be deleted.
§ 930.80
Federal permitting agency responsibility.
Following receipt of a State agency objection to a consistency certification related to federal license or permit activities described in detail in an OCS plan, the Federal agency shall not issue any of such licenses or permits except as provided in subpart H of this part.
§ 930.81
Multiple permit review.
(a) A person submitting a consistency certification for federal license or permit activities described in detail in an OCS plan is strongly encouraged to work with other Federal agencies in an effort to include, for consolidated State agency review, consistency certifications and supporting data and information applicable to OCS-related federal license or permit activities affecting any coastal use or resource which are not required to be described in detail in OCS plans but which are subject to State agency consistency review (e.g., Corps of Engineer permits for the placement of structures on the OCS and for dredging and the transportation of dredged material, Environmental Protection Agency air and water quality permits for offshore operations and onshore support and processing facilities). In the event the person does not consolidate such OCS-related permit activities with the State agency's review of the OCS plan, such activities will remain subject to individual State agency review under the requirements of subpart D of this part.
(b) A State agency objection to one or more of the OCS-related federal license or permit activities submitted for consolidated review shall not prevent the person from receiving Federal agency approval:
(1) For those OCS-related license or permit activities found by the State agency to be consistent with the management program; and
(2) For the license or permit activities described in detail in the OCS plan provided the State agency concurs with the consistency certification for such plan. Similarly, a State agency objection to the consistency certification for an OCS plan shall not prevent the person from receiving Federal agency approval for those OCS-related license or permit activities determined by the State agency to be consistent with the management program.
§ 930.82
Amended OCS plans.
If the State agency objects to the person's OCS plan consistency certification, and/or if, pursuant to subpart H of this part, the Secretary does not determine that each of the objected to federal license or permit activities described in detail in such plan is consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act, or is necessary in the interest of national security, and if the person still intends to conduct the activities described in the OCS plan, the person shall submit an amended plan to the Secretary of the Interior or designee along with a consistency certification and data and information necessary to support the amended consistency certification. The data and information shall specifically describe
modifications made to the original OCS plan, and the manner in which such modifications will ensure that all of the proposed federal license or permit activities described in detail in the amended plan will be conducted in a manner consistent with the management program. When satisfied that the person has met the requirements of the OCSLA and this subpart, the Secretary of the Interior or designee shall furnish the State agency with a copy of the amended OCS plan (excluding confidential and proprietary information), necessary data and information and consistency certification.
[71 FR 829, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.83
Review of amended OCS plans; public notice.
After receipt of a copy of the amended OCS plan, consistency certification, and necessary data and information, State agency review shall begin. The requirements of §§ 930.77, 930.78, and 930.79, apply to the review of amended OCS plans, except that the applicable time period for purposes of concurrence by conclusive presumption shall be three months instead of six months.
§ 930.84
Continuing State agency objections.
If the State agency objects to the consistency certification for an amended OCS plan, the prohibition in § 930.80 against Federal agency approval of licenses or permits for activities described in detail in such a plan applies, further Secretarial review pursuant to subpart H of this part may take place, and the development of an additional amended OCS plan and consistency certification may be required pursuant to §§ 930.82 through 930.83.
§ 930.85
Failure to substantially comply with an approved OCS plan.
(a) The Department of the Interior and State agencies shall cooperate in their efforts to monitor federally licensed or permitted activities described in detail OCS plans to make certain that such activities continue to conform to both federal and State requirements.
(b) If a State agency claims that a person is failing to substantially comply with an approved OCS plan subject to the requirements of this subpart, and such failure allegedly involves the conduct of activities affecting any coastal use or resource in a manner that is not consistent with the approved management program, the State agency shall transmit its claim to the Minerals Management Service region involved. Such claim shall include a description of the specific activity involved and the alleged lack of compliance with the OCS plan, and a request for appropriate remedial action. A copy of the claim shall be sent to the person.
(c) If a person fails to substantially comply with an approved OCS plan, as determined by Minerals Management Service, pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act and applicable regulations, the person shall come into compliance with the approved plan or shall submit an amendment to such plan or a new plan to Minerals Management Service. When satisfied that the person has met the requirements of the OCSLA and this subpart, and the Secretary of the Interior or designee has made the determination required under 30 CFR 250.203(n)(2) or § 250.204(q)(2), as applicable, the Secretary of the Interior or designee shall furnish the State agency with a copy of the amended OCS plan (excluding proprietary information), necessary data and information and consistency certification. Sections 930.82 through 930.84 shall apply to further State agency review of the consistency certification for the amended or new plan.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 829, Jan. 5, 2006]

# Subpart F—Consistency for Federal Assistance to State and Local Governments
§ 930.90
Objectives.
The provisions of this subpart are intended to ensure that federal assistance to applicant agencies for activities affecting any coastal use or resource is granted only when such activities are consistent with approved management programs. The provisions of subpart I of this part are intended to
supplement the provisions of this subpart for federal assistance activities having interstate coastal effects.
§ 930.91
Federal assistance.
The term “federal assistance” means assistance provided under a federal program to an applicant agency through grant or contractual arrangements, loans, subsidies, guarantees, insurance, or other form of financial aid.
§ 930.92
Applicant agency.
The term “applicant agency” means any unit of State or local government, or any related public entity such as a special purpose district, which, following management program approval, submits an application for federal assistance.
§ 930.93
Intergovernmental review process.
The term “intergovernmental review process” describes the procedures established by States pursuant to E.O. 12372, “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,” and implementing regulations of the review of federal financial assistance to applicant agencies.
§ 930.94
State review process for consistency.
(a) States with approved management programs should review applications from applicant agencies for federal assistance in accordance with E.O. 12372 and implementing regulations.
(b) The applicant agency shall submit an application for federal assistance to the State agency for consistency review, through the intergovernmental review process or by direct submission to the State agency, for any proposed federal assistance activity that is listed in the management program as a type of activity that will have a reasonably foreseeable effect on any coastal use or resource and occurring within the coastal zone (
see
§ 930.95(a)) or within a described geographic area outside of the coastal zone (
see
§ 930.95(b)).
(c)
Applicant agency evaluation.
The applicant agency shall provide to the State agency, in addition to the federal application, a brief evaluation on the relationship of the proposed activity and any reasonably foreseeable coastal effects to the enforceable policies of the management program.
§ 930.95
Guidance provided by the State agency.
(a) State agencies should include within the management program a listing of specific types of federal assistance programs subject to a consistency review. Such a listing, and any amendments, will require prior State agency consultation with affected Federal agencies and approval by the Director as a program change.
(b) In the event the State agency chooses to review applications for federal assistance activities outside of the coastal zone but with reasonably foreseeable coastal effects, the State agency shall develop a federal assistance provision within the management program generally describing the geographic area (e.g., coastal floodplains) within which federal assistance activities will be subject to review. This provision, and any refinements, will require prior State agency consultation with affected Federal agencies and approval by the Director as a program change. Listed activities may have different geographic location descriptions, depending on the nature of the activity and its effects on any coastal use or resource. For example, the geographic location for activities affecting water resources or uses could be described by shared water bodies, river basins, boundaries defined under the coastal nonpoint pollution control program, or other ecologically identifiable areas.
(c) The State agency shall provide copies of any federal assistance list or geographic provision, and any refinements, to Federal agencies and units of applicant agencies empowered to undertake federally assisted activities within the coastal zone or described geographic area.
(d) For review of unlisted federal assistance activities, the State agency shall follow the same procedures as it would follow for review of listed federal assistance activities outside of the coastal zone or the described geographic area. (
See
§ 930.98.)
§ 930.96
Consistency review.
(a)(1) If the State agency does not object to the proposed activity, the Federal agency may grant the federal assistance to the applicant agency. Notwithstanding State agency consistency approval for the proposed project, the Federal agency may deny assistance to the applicant agency. Federal agencies should not delay processing (so long as they do not approve) applications pending receipt of a State agency approval or objection. In the event a Federal agency determines that an application will not be approved, it shall immediately notify the applicant agency and the State agency.
(2) During the period when the State agency is reviewing the activity, the applicant agency and the State agency should attempt, if necessary, to agree upon conditions which, if met by the applicant agency, would permit State agency approval. The parties shall also consult with the Federal agency responsible for providing the federal assistance to ensure that proposed conditions satisfy federal requirements as well as management program requirements.
(b) If the State agency objects to the proposed project, the State agency shall notify the applicant agency, Federal agency and the Director of the objection pursuant to § 930.63.
§ 930.97
Federal assisting agency responsibility.
Following receipt of a State agency objection, the Federal agency shall not approve assistance for the activity except as provided in subpart H of this part.
§ 930.98
Federally assisted activities outside of the coastal zone or the described geographic area.
State agencies should monitor proposed federal assistance activities outside of the coastal zone or the described geographic area (e.g., by use of the intergovernmental review process, review of NEPA documents,
Federal Register
) and shall immediately notify applicant agencies, Federal agencies, and any other agency or office which may be identified by the State in its intergovernmental review process pursuant to E.O. 12372 of proposed activities which will have reasonably foreseeable coastal effects and which the State agency is reviewing for consistency with the management program. Notification shall also be sent by the State agency to the Director. The Director, in his/her discretion, may review the State agency's decision to review the activity. The Director may disapprove the State agency's decision to review the activity only if the Director finds that the activity will not affect any coastal use or resource. The Director shall be guided by the provisions in § 930.54(c). For purposes of this subpart, State agencies must inform the parties of objections within the time period permitted under the intergovernmental review process, otherwise the State agency waives its right to object to the proposed activity.
§ 930.99
Availability of mediation for federal assistance disputes.
In the event of a serious disagreement between a Federal agency and the State agency regarding whether a federal assistance activity is subject to the consistency requirement either party may request the OCRM mediation or Secretarial mediation services provided for in subpart G of this part. The existence of a serious disagreement will not relieve the Federal agency from the responsibility for withholding federal assistance for the activity pending satisfaction of the requirements of this subpart, except in cases where the Director has disapproved a State agency decision to review an activity.
§ 930.100
Remedial action for previously reviewed activities.
(a) Federal and State agencies shall cooperate in their efforts to monitor federal assistance activities in order to make certain that such activities continue to conform to both federal and State requirements.
(b) The State agency shall notify the relevant Federal agency representative for the area involved of any federal assistance activity which the State agency claims was:
(1) Previously determined to be consistent with the management program, but which the State agency later maintains is being conducted or is having an
effect on any coastal use or resource substantially different than originally described and, as a result, is no longer consistent with the management program, or
(2) Previously determined not to be a project affecting any coastal use or resource, but which the State agency later maintains is being conducted or is having an effect on any coastal use or resource substantially different than originally described and, as a result the project affects a coastal use or resource in a manner inconsistent with the management program.
(c) The State agency notification shall include:
(1) A description of the activity involved and the alleged lack of compliance with the management program;
(2) supporting information; and
(3) a request for appropriate remedial action. A copy of the request shall be sent to the applicant agency and the Director.
(d) If, after 30 days following a request for remedial action, the State agency still maintains that the applicant agency is failing to comply substantially with the management program, the State agency may file a written objection with the Director. If the Director finds that the applicant agency is conducting an activity that is substantially different from the approved activity, the State agency may reinitiate its review of the activity, or the applicant agency may conduct the activity as it was originally approved.
(e) An applicant agency shall be found to be conducting an activity substantially different from the approved activity if the State agency claims and the Director finds that the activity affects any coastal use or resource substantially different than originally determined by the State agency and, as a result, the activity is no longer being conducted in a manner consistent with the management program. The Director may make a finding that an applicant agency is conducting an activity substantially different from the approved activity only after providing a reasonable opportunity for the applicant agency and the Federal agency to review the State agency's objection and to submit comments for the Director's consideration.
§ 930.101
Supplemental coordination for proposed activities.
(a) For federal assistance activities that were previously determined by the State agency to be consistent with the management program, but which have not yet begun, the applicant agency shall further coordinate with the State agency if the proposed activity will affect any coastal use or resource substantially different than originally described. Substantially different coastal effects are reasonably foreseeable if:
(1) The applicant agency makes substantial changes in the proposed activity that are relevant to management program enforceable policies; or
(2) There are significant new circumstances or information relevant to the proposed activity and the proposed activity's effect on any coastal use or resource.
(3) Substantial changes were made to the activity during the period of the State agency's initial review and the State agency did not receive notice of the substantial changes during its review period, and these changes are relevant to management program enforceable policies and/or affect coastal uses or resources.
(b) The State agency may notify the applicant agency, the Federal agency and the Director of proposed activities which the State agency believes should be subject to supplemental coordination. The State agency's notification shall include information supporting a finding of substantially different coastal effects than originally described and the relevant enforceable policies, and may recommend modifications to the proposed activity (if any) that would allow the applicant agency to implement the proposed activity consistent with the management program. State agency notification under paragraph (b) of this section does not remove the requirement under paragraph (a) of this section for applicant agencies to notify State agencies.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 829, Jan. 5, 2006]

# Subpart G—Secretarial Mediation
§ 930.110
Objectives.
The purpose of this subpart is to describe mediation procedures which Federal and State agencies may use to attempt to resolve serious disagreements which arise during the administration of approved management programs.
§ 930.111
OCRM mediation.
The availability of mediation does not preclude use by the parties of alternative means for resolving their disagreement. In the event a serious disagreement arises, the parties are strongly encouraged to make every effort to resolve the disagreement informally. OCRM shall be available to assist the parties in these efforts.
§ 930.112
Request for Secretarial mediation.
(a) The Secretary or other head of a Federal agency, or the Governor or the State agency, may notify the Secretary in writing of the existence of a serious disagreement, and may request that the Secretary seek to mediate the disagreement. A copy of the written request must be sent to the agency with which the requesting agency disagrees, to the Assistant Administrator, and to the Director.
(b) Within 15 days following receipt of a request for mediation the disagreeing agency shall transmit a written response to the Secretary, and to the agency requesting mediation, indicating whether it wishes to participate in the mediation process. If the disagreeing agency declines the offer to enter into mediation efforts, it must indicate the basis for its refusal in its response. Upon receipt of a refusal to participate in mediation efforts, the Secretary shall seek to persuade the disagreeing agency to reconsider its decision and enter into mediation efforts. If the disagreeing agencies do not all agree to participate, the Secretary will cease efforts to provide mediation assistance.
§ 930.113
Public hearings.
(a) If the parties agree to the mediation process, the Secretary shall appoint a hearing officer who shall schedule a hearing in the local area concerned. The hearing officer shall give the parties at least 30 days notice of the time and place set for the hearing and shall provide timely public notice of the hearing.
(b) At the time public notice is provided, the Federal and State agencies shall provide the public with convenient access to public data and information related to the serious disagreement.
(c) Hearings shall be informal and shall be conducted by the hearing officer with the objective of securing in a timely fashion information related to the disagreement. The Federal and State agencies, as well as other interested parties, may offer information at the hearing subject to the hearing officer's supervision as to the extent and manner of presentation. A party may also provide the hearing officer with written comments. Hearings will be recorded and the hearing officer shall provide transcripts and copies of written information offered at the hearing to the Federal and State agency parties. The public may inspect and copy the transcripts and written information provided to these agencies.
§ 930.114
Secretarial mediation efforts.
(a) Following the close of the hearing, the hearing officer shall transmit the hearing record to the Secretary. Upon receipt of the hearing record, the Secretary shall schedule a mediation conference to be attended by representatives from the Office of the Secretary, the disagreeing Federal and State agencies, and any other interested parties whose participation is deemed necessary by the Secretary. The Secretary shall provide the parties at least 10 days notice of the time and place set for the mediation conference.
(b) Secretarial mediation efforts shall last only so long as the Federal and State agencies agree to participate. The Secretary shall confer with the Executive Office of the President, as necessary, during the mediation process.
§ 930.115
Termination of mediation.
Mediation shall terminate:
(a) At any time the Federal and State agencies agree to a resolution of the serious disagreement,
(b) If one of the agencies withdraws from mediation,
(c) In the event the agencies fail to reach a resolution of the disagreement within 15 days following Secretarial conference efforts, and the agencies do not agree to extend mediation beyond that period, or
(d) For other good cause.
§ 930.116
Judicial review.
The availability of the mediation services provided in this subpart is not intended expressly or implicitly to limit the parties' use of alternate forums to resolve disputes. Specifically, judicial review where otherwise available by law may be sought by any party to a serious disagreement without first having exhausted the mediation process provided for in this subpart.

# Subpart H—Appeal to the Secretary for Review Related to the Objectives of the Act and National Security Interests
§ 930.120
Objectives.
This subpart sets forth the procedures by which the Secretary may find that a federal license or permit activity, including those described in detail in an OCS plan, or a federal assistance activity, which a State agency has found to be inconsistent with the enforceable policies of the management program, may be federally approved because the activity is consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act, or is necessary in the interest of national security.
§ 930.121
Consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act.
A federal license or permit activity, or a federal assistance activity, is “consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act” if it satisfies each of the following three requirements:
(a) The activity furthers the national interest as articulated in § 302 or § 303 of the Act, in a significant or substantial manner,
(b) The national interest furthered by the activity outweighs the activity's adverse coastal effects, when those effects are considered separately or cumulatively.
(c) There is no reasonable alternative available which would permit the activity to be conducted in a manner consistent with the enforceable policies of the management program. The Secretary may consider but is not limited to considering previous appeal decisions, alternatives described in state objection letters and alternatives and other information submitted during the appeal. The Secretary shall not consider an alternative unless the State agency submits a statement, in a brief or other supporting material, to the Secretary that the alternative would permit the activity to be conducted in a manner consistent with the enforceable policies of the management program.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 829, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.122
Necessary in the interest of national security.
A federal license or permit activity, or a federal assistance activity, is “necessary in the interest of national security” if a national defense or other national security interest would be significantly impaired were the activity not permitted to go forward as proposed. Secretarial review of national security issues shall be aided by information submitted by the Department of Defense or other interested Federal agencies. The views of such agencies, while not binding, shall be given considerable weight by the Secretary. The Secretary will seek information to determine whether the objected-to activity directly supports national defense or other essential national security objectives.
§ 930.123
Definitions.
(a) The “appellant” is the applicant, person or applicant agency submitting an appeal to the Secretary pursuant to this subpart.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, the “Federal agency” is the agency whose proposed issuance of a license or permit or grant of assistance is the subject of the appeal to the Secretary.
(c) The term “energy project” means projects related to the siting, construction, expansion, or operation of any facility designed to explore, develop, produce, transmit or transport energy or energy resources that are subject to review by a coastal State under subparts D, E, F or I of this part.
(d) The term “consolidated record” means the record of all decisions made or actions taken by the lead Federal permitting agency or by another Federal or State administrative agency or officer, maintained by the lead Federal permitting agency, with the cooperation of Federal and State administrative agencies, related to any federal authorization for the permitting, approval or other authorization of an energy project.
(e) The term “lead Federal permitting agency” means the Federal agency required to: issue a federal license or permit under subparts D or I of this part; approve an OCS plan under subpart E of this part; or provide federal financial assistance under subparts F or I of this part for an energy project.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 829, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.124
Computation of time.
The first day of any period of time allowed or prescribed by these rules, shall not be included in the computation of the designated period of time. The last day of the time period computed shall be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or a Federal holiday, in which case the period runs until the next day which is not one of the aforementioned days.
§ 930.125
Notice of appeal and application fee to the Secretary.
(a) To obtain Secretarial review of a State agency objection, the appellant shall file a notice of appeal with the Secretary within 30 days of receipt of a State agency objection.
(b) The appellant's notice of appeal shall include a statement explaining the appellant's basis for appeal of the State agency's objection under §§ 930.121 and/or 930.122 of this title, including any procedural arguments pursuant to § 930.129(b). Bases for appeal (including procedural arguments) not identified in the appellant's notice of appeal shall not be considered by the Secretary.
(c) The appellant's notice of appeal shall be accompanied by payment of an application fee or a request for a waiver of such fees. An appeal involving a project valued in excess of $1 million shall be considered a major appeal and the application fee is $500.00. All other appeals shall be considered minor appeals and the application fee is $200.00.
(d) The appellant shall send the Notice of appeal to the Secretary, Herbert C. Hoover Building, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230; a copy of the notice of appeal to the objecting State agency; and to the Assistant General Counsel for Ocean Services (GCOS), 1305 East West Highway, Room 6111 SSMC 4, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910.
(e) No extension of time will be permitted for the filing of a notice of appeal.
(f) The Secretary shall waive any or all fees if the Secretary concludes upon review of the appellant's fee waiver request that such fees impose an economic hardship on appellant. The request for a waiver and demonstration of economic hardship shall accompany the notice of appeal. If the Secretary denies a request for a waiver and the appellant wishes to continue with the appeal, the appellant shall submit the appropriate fees to the Secretary within 10 days of receipt of the Secretary's denial. If the fees are not received by the 10th day, then the Secretary shall dismiss the appeal.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 830, Jan. 5, 2006; 71 FR 75865, Dec. 19, 2006]
§ 930.126
Consistency appeal processing fees.
The Secretary shall collect as a processing fee such other fees from the appellant as are necessary to recover the full costs of administering and processing appeals to the Secretary under section 307(c) of the Act. All processing fees shall be assessed and collected no later than 60 days after publication of the
Federal Register
Notice closing the decision record. Failure to submit processing fees shall be grounds for extending the time for issuance of a decision pursuant to section 319(a)(2) of the
Act (16 U.S.C. 1465(a)(2)) and § 930.130 of this subpart.
§ 930.127
Briefs and supporting materials.
(a) Within 30 days of submitting the notice of appeal, as specified in § 930.125, the appellant shall submit to the Secretary its principal brief accompanied by the appendix described in paragraph (c) of this section. Within 60 days of the appellant's filing of the notice of appeal, the State agency shall submit to the Secretary its principal brief accompanied by a supplemental appendix, if any, described in paragraph (c) of this section. Not later than 20 days after appellant's receipt of the State agency's brief, appellant may submit to the Secretary a reply brief accompanied by a supplemental appendix, if any, described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) A principal brief shall not exceed 30 double-spaced pages; appellant's reply brief shall not exceed 15 double-spaced pages. Any table of contents, table of citations, or certifications of mailing and/or service do not count toward the page limitations.
(c) The appellant must prepare and file an appendix with its brief containing:
(1) Its consistency certification;
(2) The State agency's objection; and
(3) All such supporting documentation and material as the appellant deems necessary for consideration by the Secretary. The State agency (or appellant on reply) shall cite to appellant's appendix or may file a supplemental appendix to include additional documentation and material as the State agency (or appellant on reply) deems necessary for consideration by the Secretary that was not included in appellant's appendix (or the State agency's supplemental appendix). The parties are encouraged to discuss the contents of appellant's appendix in order to include in the appendix as much of the supporting documentation and material as any party deems necessary for consideration by the Secretary. In an appeal for an energy project, supporting documentation and material shall be limited to the parts of the consolidated record described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section to which the appellant or the State agency wishes to direct the Secretary's attention.
(d)(1) Both the appellant and State agency shall send two copies of their briefs and supporting materials to the Office of General Counsel for Ocean Services (GCOS), NOAA, 1305 East West Highway, Room 6111 SSMC4, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910. One copy must be in an electronic format compatible (to the extent practicable) with the website maintained by the Secretary to provide public information concerning appeals under the CZMA.
(2) The appellant and State agency shall serve on each other at least one copy of their briefs, supporting materials, and all requests and communications submitted to the Secretary, at the same time that materials are submitted to the Secretary.
(3) Each submission to the Secretary shall be accompanied by a certification of mailing and/or service on the other party. Service may be done by mail or hand delivery. Materials or briefs submitted to the Secretary not in compliance with this subpart may be disregarded and not entered into the Secretary's decision record of the appeal.
(e)(1) The Secretary has broad authority to implement procedures governing the consistency appeal process to ensure efficiency and fairness to all parties. The appeal decision record is composed of the briefs and supporting materials submitted by the State agency and appellant, public comments and the comments, if any, submitted by interested Federal agencies. As noted in § 930.128(c)(1), the Secretary gives deference to the views of interested Federal agencies when commenting in their areas of expertise and takes notice of relevant administrative decisions, including licenses or permits, related to an appellant's proposed activity when submitted to the appeal decision record. The Secretary determines the content of the appeal decision record. The Secretary may determine, on the Secretary's own initiative, that additional information is necessary to the Secretary's decision, including documents prepared by Federal agencies pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
) and the Endangered Species Act
(16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
), and may request such information.
(2) To promote efficient use of time and resources, the Secretary may, upon the Secretary's own initiative, require the appellant and the State agency to submit briefs and supporting materials relevant only to procedural or jurisdictional issues presented in the Notice of Appeal or identified by the Secretary. Following a decision of the procedural or jurisdictional issues, the Secretary may require briefs on substantive issues raised by the appeal if necessary.
(3) The Secretary may require the appellant and the State agency to submit briefs in addition to those described in paragraphs (a) and (e) of this section as necessary.
(4) Any briefs not requested or required by the Secretary may be disregarded and not entered into the Secretary's decision record of the appeal.
(f) The appellant bears the burden of submitting evidence in support of its appeal and the burden of persuasion.
(g) The Secretary may extend the time for submission, and length, of briefs and supporting materials for good cause.
(h) Where a State agency objection is based in whole or in part on a lack of information, the Secretary shall limit the record on appeal to information previously submitted to the State agency and relevant comments thereon, except as provided for in § 930.129(b) and (c).
(i) Appeal Decision Record for Energy Projects. The provisions of this paragraph apply only to appeals for energy projects.
(1) The Secretary shall use the consolidated record maintained by the lead Federal permitting agency as the initial record for an appeal under this subpart for energy projects.
(2) The appellant's notice of appeal required by § 930.125(a) and (b) must be accompanied by two copies of the consolidated record maintained by the lead Federal permitting agency. One copy of the consolidated record must be in an electronic format compatible (to the extent practicable) with the website maintained by the Secretary to provide public information concerning appeals under the CZMA. Notwithstanding § 930.125(e), the Secretary may extend the time for filing a notice of appeal in connection with an energy project for good cause shown to allow appellant additional time to prepare the consolidated record for filing.
(3) The appellant and the State agency shall submit briefs as required by paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section.
(4) Supplemental information may be accepted and included in the decision record by the Secretary only as allowed by § 930.130(a)(2).
[71 FR 830, Jan. 5, 2006, as amended at 71 FR 75865, Dec. 19, 2006]
§ 930.128
Public notice, comment period, and public hearing.
(a) The Secretary shall provide public notice of the appeal within 30 days after the receipt of the Notice of Appeal by publishing a Notice in the
Federal Register
and in a publication of general circulation in the immediate area of the coastal zone likely to be affected by the proposed activity.
(b) Except in the case of appeals involving energy projects, the Secretary shall provide a 30-day period for the public and interested Federal agencies to comment on the appeal. Notice of the public and Federal agency comment period shall be provided in the Notice required in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)(1) The Secretary shall accord greater weight to those Federal agencies whose comments are within the subject areas of their technical expertise.
(2) The Secretary may, on the Secretary's own initiative or upon written request, for good cause shown, reopen the period for Federal agency comments before the closure of the decision record.
(d) Except in the case of appeals involving energy projects, the Secretary may hold a public hearing in response to a request or on the Secretary's own initiative. A request for a public hearing must be filed with the Secretary within 30 days of the publication of the Notice in the
Federal Register
required in paragraph (a) of this section. If a hearing is held by the Secretary, it shall be noticed in the
Federal Register
and guided by the procedures described within § 930.113. If a hearing is
held by the Secretary, the
Federal Register
notice for the hearing shall reopen the public and Federal agency comment period and shall close such comment period 10 days after the hearing.
[71 FR 831, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.129
Dismissal, remand, stay, and procedural override.
(a) The Secretary may dismiss an appeal for good cause. A dismissal is the final agency action. Good cause shall include, but is not limited to:
(1) Failure of the appellant to submit a notice of appeal within the required 30-day period.
(2) Failure of the appellant to submit a brief or supporting materials within the required period;
(3) Failure of the appellant to pay a required fee;
(4) Denial by the Federal agency of the federal license, permit or assistance application; or
(5) Failure of the appellant to base the appeal on grounds that the proposed activity is either consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act, or necessary in the interest of national security.
(b) If the State agency's consistency objection is not in compliance with section 307 of the Act and the regulations contained in subparts D, E, F, or I of this part, the Secretary shall override the State's objection. The Secretary may make this determination as a threshold matter.
(c) The Secretary may stay the processing of an appeal in accordance with § 930.130.
(d) The Secretary may remand an appeal to the State agency for reconsideration of the project's consistency with the enforceable policies of the State's management program if significant new information relevant to the State agency's objection, not previously provided to the State agency during its consistency review, is submitted to the Secretary. The Secretary shall determine a time period for the remand to the State agency. The time period for remand must be completed within the period described in § 930.130 for the development of the Secretary's decision record. If the State agency responds that it still objects to the activity, then the Secretary shall continue to process the appeal. If the State agency concurs that the activity is consistent with the enforceable policies of the State's management program, then the Secretary shall declare the appeal moot and notify the Federal agency that the activity may be federally approved.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 831, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.130
Closure of the decision record and issuance of decision.
(a)(1) With the exception of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Secretary shall close the decision record not later than 160 days after the date that the Secretary's Notice of Appeal is published in the
Federal Register
under § 930.128(a). After closing the decision record, the Secretary shall immediately publish a notice in the
Federal Register
stating that the decision record has been closed. The notice shall also state that the Secretary shall not consider additional information, briefs or comments.
(2) The Secretary may stay the closing of the decision record during the 160-day period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section:
(i) For a specific period mutually agreed to in writing by the appellant and the State agency; or
(ii) As the Secretary determines necessary to receive, on an expedited basis:
(A) Any supplemental information specifically requested by the Secretary to complete a consistency review under the Act; or
(B) Any clarifying information submitted by a party to the proceeding related to information in the consolidated record compiled by the lead Federal permitting agency.
(3) The Secretary may only stay the 160-day period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for a period not to exceed 60 days.
(b) Not later than 60 days after the date of publication of a
Federal Register
notice stating when the decision record for an appeal has been closed, the Secretary shall issue a decision or publish a notice in the
Federal Register
explaining why a decision cannot be issued at that time. The Secretary
shall issue a decision not later than 15 days after the date of publication of a
Federal Register
notice explaining why a decision cannot be issued within the 60-day period.
(c) The decision of the Secretary shall constitute final agency action for the purposes of the Administrative Procedure Act.
(d) In reviewing an appeal, the Secretary shall find that a proposed federal license or permit activity, or a federal assistance activity, is consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act, or is necessary in the interest of national security, when the information in the decision record supports this conclusion.
(e)(1) If the Secretary finds that the proposed activity is consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act, or is necessary in the interest of national security, the Federal agency may approve the activity.
(2) If the Secretary does not make either of these findings, the Federal agency shall not approve the activity.
[65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 831, Jan. 5, 2006]
§ 930.131
Review initiated by the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary may, on her own initiative, choose to consider whether a federal license or permit activity, or a federal assistance activity, is consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act, or is necessary in the interest of national security. Secretarial review shall only be initiated after the completion of State agency review pursuant to the relevant subpart. The Secretary's decision to review the activity may result from an independent concern regarding the activity or a request from interested parties. If the Secretary decides to initiate review, notification shall be sent to the applicant, person or applicant agency, and to the relevant Federal and State agencies. The notice shall include a statement describing the reasons for the review.
(b) With the exception of application and processing fees, all other provisions under this subpart governing the processing and administering of appeals will apply to Secretarial reviews initiated under this section.

# Subpart I—Consistency of Federal Activities Having Interstate Coastal Effects
§ 930.150
Objectives.
(a) A federal activity may affect coastal uses or resources of a State other than the State in which the activity will occur. Effective coastal management is fostered by ensuring that activities having such reasonably foreseeable interstate coastal effects are conducted consistent with the enforceable policies of the management program of each affected State.
(b) The application of the federal consistency requirement to activities having interstate coastal effects is addressed by this subpart in order to encourage cooperation among States in dealing with activities having interstate coastal effects, and to provide States, local governments, Federal agencies, and the public with a predictable framework for evaluating the consistency of these federal activities under the Act.
§ 930.151
Interstate coastal effect.
The term “interstate coastal effect” means any reasonably foreseeable effect resulting from a federal action occurring in one State of the United States on any coastal use or resource of another State that has a federally approved management program. Effects are not just environmental effects, but include effects on coastal uses. Effects include both direct effects which result from the activity and occur at the same time and place as the activity, and indirect (cumulative and secondary) effects which result from the activity and are later in time or farther removed in distance, but are still reasonably foreseeable. Indirect effects are effects resulting from the incremental impact of the federal action when added to other past, present, and reasonably foreseeable actions, regardless of what person(s) undertake(s) such actions. The term “affects” means have an effect on. Effects on any coastal use or resource may also be referred to as “coastal effects.”
§ 930.152
Application.
(a) This subpart applies to federal actions having interstate coastal effects, and supplements the relevant requirements contained in 15 CFR part 930, subparts C (Consistency for Federal Agency Activities), D (Consistency for Activities Requiring a Federal License or Permit), E (Consistency for OCS Exploration, Development and Production Activities) and F (Consistency for Federal Assistance to State and Local Governments). Except as otherwise provided by this subpart, the requirements of other relevant subparts of part 930 apply to activities having interstate coastal effects.
(b) Federal consistency is a requirement on federal actions affecting any coastal use or resource of a State with a federally-approved management program, regardless of the activities' locations (including States without a federally approved management program). The federal consistency requirement does not alter a coastal State's jurisdiction. The federal consistency requirement does not give States the authority to review the application of laws, regulations, or policies of any other State. Rather, the Act allows a management program to review federal actions and may preclude federal action as a result of a State objection, even if the objecting State is not the State in which the activity will occur. Such objections to interstate activities under subparts D, E and F may be overridden by the Secretary pursuant to subpart H of this part.
§ 930.153
Coordination between States in developing coastal management policies.
Coastal States are encouraged to give high priority to:
(a) Coordinating State coastal management planning, policies, and programs with respect to contiguous areas of such States;
(b) Studying, planning, and implementing unified coastal management policies with respect to such areas; and
(c) Establishing an effective mechanism, and adopting a federal-State consultation procedure, for the identification, examination, and cooperative resolution of mutual problems with respect to activities having interstate coastal effects.
§ 930.154
Listing activities subject to routine interstate consistency review.
(a)
Geographic location of listed activities.
Each coastal State intending to conduct a consistency review of federal activities occurring in another State shall:
(1) List those Federal agency activities, federal license or permit activities, and federal assistance activities that the State intends to routinely review for consistency; and
(2) Generally describe the geographic location for each type of listed activity.
(b) In establishing the geographic location of interstate consistency review, each State must notify and consult with the State in which the listed activity will occur, as well as with relevant Federal agencies.
(c)
Demonstrate effects.
In describing the geographic location for interstate consistency reviews, the State agency shall provide information to the Director that coastal effects from listed activities occurring within the geographic area are reasonably foreseeable. Listed activities may have different geographic location descriptions, depending on the nature of the activity and its effects on any coastal use or resource. For example, the geographic location for activities affecting water resources or uses could be described by shared water bodies, river basins, boundaries under the State's coastal nonpoint pollution control program, or other ecologically identifiable areas.
(d)
Director approval.
State agencies shall submit their lists and geographic location descriptions developed under this section to the Director for approval as a routine program change under subpart H of 15 CFR part 923. Each State submitting this program change shall include evidence of consultation with States in which the activity will occur, evidence of consultation with relevant Federal agencies, and any agreements with other States and Federal agencies regarding coordination of activities.
(e)
State failure to list interstate activities.
A coastal State that fails to list federal activities subject to interstate review, or to describe the geographic location for these activities, under paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, may not exercise its right to review activities occurring in other States, until the State meets the listing requirements. The listing of activities subject to interstate consistency review, and the description of the geographic location for those listed activities, should ensure that coastal States have the opportunity to review relevant activities occurring in other States. States may amend their lists and geographic location descriptions pursuant to the requirements of this subpart and subpart H of 15 CFR part 923. States which have complied with paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section may also use the procedure at § 930.54 to review unlisted activities. States will have a transition period of 18 months from the date this rule takes effect. In that time a State may review an interstate activity pursuant to § 930.54 of this part. After the transition period States must comply with this subpart in order to review interstate activities.
§ 930.155
Federal and State agency coordination.
(a) Identifying activities subject to the consistency requirement. The provisions of this subpart are neither a substitute for nor eliminate the statutory requirement of federal consistency with the enforceable policies of management programs for all activities affecting any coastal use or resource. Federal agencies shall submit consistency determinations to relevant State agencies for activities having coastal effects, regardless of location, and regardless of whether the activity is listed.
(b)
Notifying affected States.
Federal agencies, applicants or applicant agencies proposing activities listed for interstate consistency review, or determined by the Federal agency, applicant or applicant agency to have an effect on any coastal use or resource, shall notify each affected coastal State of the proposed activity. State agencies may also notify Federal agencies and applicants of listed and unlisted activities subject to State agency review and the requirements of this subpart.
(c)
Notice of intent to review.
Within 30 days from receipt of the consistency determination or certification and necessary data and information, or within 30 days from receipt of notice of a listed federal assistance activity, each State intending to review an activity occurring in another State must notify the applicant or applicant agency (if any), the Federal agency, the State in which the activity will occur (either the State's management program, or if the State does not have a management program, the Governor's office), and the Director, of its intent to review the activity for consistency. The State's notice to the parties must be received by the 30th day after receipt of the consistency determination or certification. If a State fails, within the 30 days, to notify the applicant or applicant agency (if any), the Federal agency, the State in which the activity will occur, and the Director, of its intent to review the activity, then the State waives its right to review the activity for consistency. The waiver does not apply where the State intending to review the activity does not receive notice of the activity.
§ 930.156
Content of a consistency determination or certification and State agency response.
(a) The Federal agency or applicant is encouraged to prepare one determination or certification that will satisfy the requirements of all affected States with approved management programs.
(b) State agency responses shall follow the applicable requirements contained in subparts C, D, E and F of this part.
§ 930.157
Mediation and informal negotiations.
The relevant provisions contained in subpart G of this part are available for resolution of disputes between affected States, relevant Federal agencies, and applicants or applicant agencies The parties to the dispute are also encouraged to use alternative means for resolving their disagreement. OCRM
shall be available to assist the parties in these efforts.
PARTS 932-933 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER C—REGULATIONS OF THE NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
Pt. 946

# PART 946—MODERNIZATION OF THE NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
Sec.
946.1
Purpose.
946.2
Definitions.
946.3
Notification of change of operations and restructuring.
946.4
Menu of services.
946.5
Change in operations—commissioning and decommissioning.
946.6
Change in operations—transferring responsibility and moving field offices.
946.7
Preparation of proposed certification for restructuring.
946.8
Review of proposed certification for restructuring.
946.9
Certification of restructuring.
946.10
Liaison officer.
Appendix A to Part 946—National Weather Service Modernization Criteria
Appendix B to Part 946—Airport Tables

# Authority:
Title VII of Pub. L. 102-567, 106 Stat. 4303 15 U.S.C. 313 note

# Source:
58 FR 64091, Dec. 3, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 946.1
Purpose.
(a) This part sets forth the procedures for certification by the Secretary of Commerce that the closure, consolidation, automation or relocation of any field office of the National Weather Service (NWS) pursuant to the implementation of the Strategic Plan for the Modernization of the NWS will not result in any degradation of weather services. Section 706 of Pub. L. 102-567 requires that no such field office be closed, consolidated, automated, or relocated until such certification is made. This part distinguishes these modernization activities which require certification from those changes in operations at a field office which do not require certification.
(b) This part, including specifically these sections which specify when certifications are required, is intended to promote confidence that public safety is being adequately considered during the modernization process. While some of the terms used in these regulations may be identical to those used by the Office of Personnel Management, the General Services Administration, or by NOAA in personnel regulations, this part does not affect or supersede those regulations. In particular, a determination that the move of a field office is not a “relocation” for purposes of these regulations does not affect an employee's rights to relocation assistance, discontinued service retirement, severance pay, or grade and pay retention.
§ 946.2
Definitions.
Automate (or automation)
means to replace employees performing surface observations at a field office with automated weather service observation equipment. For the purposes of this definition, an employee performing surface observations at a field office is replaced when that office, after installing such equipment, reduces or eliminates its responsibility for taking surface observations and removes the employee from that field office, or formally requests the employee to cease performing all observational responsibilities at that office. Automate does not include temporarily reducing the hours of operation during which a field office is responsible for surface observations or augmenting/backing up an ASOS when such reduction results from an unplanned decrease in staff.
Category 1 radar
means an existing NWS radar which is to be replaced by a NEX-RAD on the same site or on an adjacent site from which the two radars cannot operate concurrently. A Category 1 radar must be dismantled when the existing tower prevents building a replacement NEX-RAD on the same site or operationally demonstrating and commissioning a replacement NEX-RAD on an adjacent site by physically blocking its beam. A Category 1 radar must be turned off when it prevents operationally demonstrating and commissioning a replacement NEX-RAD on an adjacent site by creating substantial electromagnetic interference.
Change operations at a field office
means to transfer service responsibility, commission weather observation systems, decommission a NWS radar, move an entire field office to a new location inside the local commuting and service area, or significantly change the staffing level of a field office except where the staffing change constitutes a consolidation or automation or where there is an unplanned decrease in staff.
Close (or closure)
means to remove all weather services, equipment, and personnel from a filed office. It does not include a consolidation, automation, or relocation or a move of a field office to another location within the current local commuting and service area.
Commission
means to officially charge a new observational technology (e.g, NEXRAD and ASOS) with responsibility for providing weather data within a defined service area or to charge a new weather office support system (e.g, AWIPS) with responsibility for supporting office operations.
Committee
means the Modernization Transition Committee established by sec. 707 of Pub. L. 102-567.
Consolidate (or consolidation)
means to remove some positions from a field office (without closing that office) after those responsibilities have been reduced or eliminated by the commissioning of one or more NEXRADS, the decommissioning of the radar operated by that office, if any, and the combination of that office's responsibilities with those of another field office. Consolidate does not include temporarily reducing the hours during which a field office is responsible for operating a radar when such reduction results from an unplanned decrease in staff.
Decommission (or permanently decommission)
means to permanently withdraw existing official responsibility for providing weather data or weather office support from an existing technology which includes turning off the technology. It does not include temporarily withdrawing responsibility for providing radar data where this action results from:
(1) System failure;
(2) The need to dismantle a Category 1 radar to allow the construction of or the operational demonstration and commissioning of a replacement NEX-RAD; or
(3) The need to turn off a Category 1 radar to allow the operational demonstration and commissioning of a replacement NEX-RAD.
Field office
means a National Weather Service Office (WSO) or a National Weather Service Forecast Office (WSFO).
Inventory of services
means all of those weather services from those listed on the menu of services that are provided to the public by a field office in its service area prior to a transition action.
Local Commuting Area
means the population center (or two or more neighboring ones) served by an existing field office and includes those surrounding localities that can reasonably be considered part of this single area for transportation purposes. The Local Commuting Area for any field office located in a Metropolitan Area defined by the Office of Management and Budget for statistical purposes shall be the Metropolitan Statistical Area or Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area.
Menu of services
means the basic weather services provided by NWS field offices as listed in § 946.4.
National Implementation Plan
means the plan submitted to Congress as part of the budget justification documents for Fiscal Year 1994 and for each subsequent fiscal year until the modernization is complete.
Regional Director
means the Director of one of the six geographical regions of the NWS.
Relocate (or relocation)
means to move an entire field office, including all personnel positions, equipment and service responsibility to a location outside the current local commuting or service area of that field office.
Responsible Meteorologist
means an employee of the NWS in charge of the office that will be responsible for providing weather services to the area affected by a closure, consolidation, automation, or relocation of a field office.
Restructure
means to close, consolidate, automate, or relocate a field office.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce or his or her delegate.
Service area
means the geographical area for which an existing field office provides weather services or conducts observations.
Strategic Plan
means the 10 year strategic plan for the modernization of NWS which was submitted to the Congress by the Secretary on March 10, 1989.
Unplanned decrease in staff
means a temporary reduction in the number of employees available for duty at a field office resulting from employee retirement, resignation, extended sick leave or emergency leave, or voluntary acceptance of training or of a position outside that field office.
Weather service
means a service or product provided to a service area by a field office.
[58 FR 64091, Dec. 3, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 44314, Aug. 29, 1994]
§ 946.3
Notification of changes in operations and restructuring.
(a) Beginning with the Fiscal Year 1994 budget submission to Congress and until the modernization is complete, the NWS will submit to Congress annually a National Implementation Plan. The NWS may amend a Plan prior to the submission of the next Plan to include modifications provided that notification of any additional proposed changes in operations or identification of any additional proposed restructuring actions shall be provided to Congress at least 90 days prior to the date of the action.
(b) The NWS will neither change operations at, nor restructure, any field office after September 30, 1993, pursuant to the implementation of the Strategic Plan unless it has provided notification of the relevant action in the most current edition of the National Implementation Plan, or an amendment thereof, and has complied with all requirements of these regulations.
§ 946.4
Menu of services.
The following are the basic weather services provided by NWS field offices:
(a) Surface Observations
(b) Upper Air Observations
(c) Radar Observations
(d) Public Forecasts, Statements, and Warnings
(e) Aviation Forecasts, Statements, and Warnings
(f) Marine Forecasts, Statements, and Warnings
(g) Hydrologic Forecasts and Warnings
(h) Fire Weather Forecasts and Warnings
(i) Agricultural Forecasts and Advisories
(j) NOAA Weather Radio Broadcasts
(k) Climatological Services
(l) Emergency Management Support
(m) Special Products and Service Programs
§ 946.5
Change in operations—commissioning and decommissioning.
(a) Before commissioning any new NEXRAD or ASOS weather observation system, the NWS shall prepare a Commissioning Report documenting that the system involved will perform to the Government's specifications; the system has been tested on site and performs reliably; satisfactory maintenance support is in place; sufficient staff with adequate training are available to operate the system; technical coordination with weather service users has been completed; and the system satisfactorily supports field office operations.
(b) The Report required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be based on the scientific and technical criteria set forth in the NWS' NEXRAD and ASOS Commissioning Plans, as appropriate, which criteria shall be published in the
Federal Register
as the final commissioning criteria in accordance with sec. 704(b)(1) of the Act. In the case of an ASOS commissioning, the Report shall also document that the NWS has consulted with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and has determined that the weather services provided after commissioning will continue to be in full compliance with the applicable FAA flight aviation rules.
(c) Before decommissioning any NWS radar, the NWS shall prepare a Decommissioning Report documenting that all replacement radars needed to provide equal coverage have been commissioned; confirmation of services with users has been completed; and that the radar being decommissioned is no
longer needed to support field office operations. The Decommissioning Report shall be based on the scientific and technical criteria contained in the NWS' Radar Decommissioning Plan, which criteria shall be published in the
Federal Register
as the final decommissioning criteria in accordance with the requirements of sec. 704(b)(1) of the Act.
(d) If the final commissioning criteria significantly modify the criteria upon which the previous commissioning of a NEXRAD and/or ASOS were based, the NWS shall confirm that the relevant system conforms with the final criteria adopted. The NWS shall not decommission any NWS radar until the final criteria have been adopted.
§ 946.6
Change in operations—transferring responsibility and moving field offices.
(a) After providing any notification required by § 946.3(b), NWS may change operations at a field office to implement the Strategic Plan, including:
(1) Transferring official responsibility for taking radar observations to a NEXRAD Weather Service Forecast Office (NWSFO) or a NEXRAD Weather Service Office (NWSO) that is being established as a future Weather Forecast Office following commissioning of the NEXRAD at the new office;
(2) Transferring official responsibility for taking observations from a Category 1 radar to a backup radar or radars prior to constructing and/or operating a replacement NEXRAD. Before transferring responsibility, the Responsible Meteorologist shall document that technical coordination with users has been completed and that the transition to the replacement NEXRAD can be completed expeditiously;
(3) Transferring its service responsibility for issuing watches, warnings, forecasts and other products to a NWSFO or NWSO;
(4) Significantly reducing its staffing level by transferring or reassigning personnel to support the service responsibilities transferred under paragraph (a)(3) of this section provided that the field office continues to assign the appropriate number of positions established by the NWS Operations Manual to carry out its observation responsibilities; and
(5) Moving an entire field office to a location within the local commuting and service area of that office.
(b) A field office may not significantly reduce its staffing level assigned to support any observation responsibility, including those responsibilities transferred under paragraph (a)(2) of this section and those retained under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, until the Secretary has certified that the automation and/or consolidation will not degrade service in accordance with § 946.7.
§ 946.7
Preparation of proposed certification for restructuring.
(a) Whenever it becomes appropriate to restructure a field office identified in the National Implementation Plan, but prior to taking such action, the Responsible Meteorologist shall make a determination that there will be no degradation of service based on the final criteria published in the
Federal Register
in accordance with sec. 704 of the Act and recommend a proposed certification. The proposed certification may address all related restructuring actions that occur as part of a coordinated step described in the National Implementation Plan.
(b) The proposed certification shall include:
(1) A description of local weather characteristics and weather-related concerns which affect the weather services provided within the service area;
(2) A detailed comparison of the inventory of services provided within the service area prior to such action and the services to be provided after such action;
(3) Any recent or expected modernization of NWS operations which will enhance services to the affected area;
(4) An identification of any area within any state which will not receive NEXRAD coverage at an elevation of 10,000 feet;
(5) Evidence based upon operational demonstration of modernized NWS operations which support a determination that no degradation in service will result;
(6) Any report of the Committee issued under sec. 707(c) of the Act; and
(7) The Responsible Meteorologist's determination that there will be no degradation of service.
(c) If the restructuring proposed to be certified involves the commissioning of a NEXRAD, the Responsible Meteorologist shall also consider the following evidence from operational demonstration of modernized operations in reaching the conclusion that no degradation of service will result:
(1) The Commissioning Report containing the elements described in § 946.5(a);
(2) The Decommissioning Report containing the elements described in § 946.5(c); and
(3) The Confirmation of Services Report prepared by the NWS in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(d) If the restructuring proposed to be certified involves the commissioning of an ASOS unit, the Responsible Meteorologist shall also consider the following evidence from operational demonstration of modernized operations in reaching the conclusion that no degradation of service will result:
(1) The Commissioning Report containing the elements described in § 946.5(a);
(2) The NWS Surface Observation Modernization Report documenting that manual observations being discontinued are no longer needed to provide mission field services; based on the final scientific and technical criteria (including all requirements and procedures) published in the
Federal Register
in accordance with section 704(b)(2) of the act; and
(3) The Confirmation of Services Report prepared by the NWS in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(e) The Confirmation of Services Report required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section shall include a list of those users who have been contacted during the confirmation process, to document that services have not been degraded. These users shall include the appropriate media and emergency managers in the service area and the appropriate federal and state agencies including specifically the FAA if the restructuring involves a field office located at an airport and consultation with the FAA has not been conducted in accordance with § 946.5(b). This Report shall be based on the scientific and technical criteria set forth in the Internal and External Communication and Coordination Plan for the Modernization and Associated Restructuring of the National Weather Service, which criteria shall be included in the final certification criteria published in the
Federal Register
in accordance with sec. 704(b)(2) of the Act.
(f) If the restructuring proposed to be certified involves the relocation of a field office, the Responsible Meteorologist shall also consider the following evidence in reaching the conclusion that no degradation of service will result:
(1) Evidence based upon operational demonstration during earlier modernization actions in which an entire field office was moved from one location to another including specifically the impact of such moves on services;
(2) A checklist of all operational tests and inspections that will be performed at the new location to ensure that the relocated equipment is fully operational;
(3) A list of all users notified prior to the relocation, and a list of the contacts that will be made with the relevant users to confirm operational status after the relocation; and
(4) Comments received from notified users and those received during the public comment period.
§ 946.8
Review of proposed certification for restructuring.
The Responsible Meteorologist shall transmit the proposed certification and the accompanying documentation to the Regional Director for review. The Regional Director may amend or supplement the documentation provided subsequent readers can easily identify his or her amendments or supplements. If the Regional Director agrees with the proposed certification, he or she shall endorse the proposed certification, and transmit it along with all the accompanying documentation to the Secretary. A copy of any proposed certification shall be provided to the Committee upon request of the Committee.
§ 946.9
Certification of restructuring.
(a) The Secretary shall publish each proposed certification in the
Federal Register
at least 60 days prior to certification. If, after consideration of the public comments received, the Secretary agrees that the proposed restructuring will not result in any degradation of service to the service area, he or she shall so certify by submitting a certification report to Congress. Upon transmittal of the certification by the secretary, NWS shall promptly publish the certification in the
Federal Register
stating where copies of the certification and the accompanying documents may be obtained.
(b) The Responsible Meteorologist may restructure only after the certification has been submitted to Congress.
(c) Any field office for which restructuring has been certified under this section shall also be subject to additional certification if that office is closed during stage 2 of the modernization. No field office will close before January 1, 1996.
§ 946.10
Liaison officer.
Prior to restructuring a field office, the Responsible Meteorologist shall designate at least one person in the affected service area to act as a liaison officer for at least a 2-year period whose duties shall be:
(a) Provide timely information regarding the activities of the NWS which may affect service to the community including specifically modernization and restructuring activities; and
(b) Work with area users, including persons associated with general aviation, civil defense, emergency preparedness, and the news media, with respect to the provision of timely weather warnings and forecasts.
Pt. 946, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 946—National Weather Service Modernization Criteria

# I. Modernization Criteria for Actions Not Requiring Certification

# (A) Commissioning of New Weather Observation Systems

# (1) Automated Surface Observation Systems (ASOS)
Purpose:
Successful commissioning for full operational use requires a demonstration, by tests and other means, that the ASOS equipment, as installed in the field office, meets its technical requirements; that the prescribed operating, maintenance, and logistic support elements are in place; that operations have been properly staffed with trained personnel and that the equipment can be operated with all other installed mating elements of the modernized NWS system.

# Note:
It may be necessary to incorporate work-arounds to complete some of the items listed below in a timely and cost-effective manner. A work-around provides for an alternative method of meeting a commissioning criteria through the application of a pre-approved operational procedure implemented on a temporary basis, for example, by human augmentation of the observation for the occurrence of freezing rain, until such time as a freezing rain sensor has been accepted for operational use with ASOS. The ASOS Plan referenced below includes a process for recommending, approving, and documenting work arounds and requires that they be tracked as open items until they can be eliminated by implementation of the originally intended capability.
References:
The criteria and evaluation elements for commissioning are set forth and further detailed in the NWS-Sponsored Automated Surface Observing System (ASOS) Site Component Commissioning Plan (the ASOS Plan), more specifically in Addendum I, Appendix D of the ASOS Site Component Commissioning Evaluation Package (the ASOS Package).
Criteria:
a. ASOS Acceptance Test: The site component acceptance test, which includes objective tests to demonstrate that the ASOS, as installed at the given site, meets its technical specifications, has been successfully completed in accordance with item 1a, p. D-2 of Appendix D of the ASOS Package.
b. Sensor Siting: Sensor sitings provide representative observations in accordance with Appendix C of the ASOS Package, Guidance for Evaluating Representativeness of ASOS Observations and item 1b, p. D-2 of Appendix D of the ASOS Package.
c. Initialization Parameters: Initialization parameters are in agreement with source information provided by the ASOS Program Office, in accordance with item 1c, pp. D-2
D-3 of Appendix D of the ASOS Package.
d. Sensor Performance Verification: Sensor performance has been verified in accordance with the requirements stated in the ASOS Site Technical Manual and item 1d, p. D-3 of the ASOS Package.
e. Field Modification Kits/Firmware Installed: All critical field modification kits and firmware for the site as required by attachments 3a
b (pp. D-45
D-46) or memorandum issued to the regions, have been installed on the ASOS in accordance with item 1e, p. D-4 of Appendix of the ASOS Package.
f. Operations and Maintenance Documentation: A full set of operations and maintenance documentation is available in accordance with items 2a-h, pp. D-5
D-6 of Appendix D of the ASOS Package.
g. Notification of and Technical Coordination with Users: All affected users have been notified of the initial date for ASOS operations and have received a technical coordination package in accordance with item 2i, pp. D-6
D-7 of Appendix D of the ASOS Package.
h. Availability of Trained Operations Personnel: Adequate operations staff are available, training materials are available, and required training has been completed, per section 3.2.3.1 of the ASOS Plan, in accordance with items 3a-c, p. D-8 of Appendix D of the ASOS package.
i. Maintenance Capability: Proper maintenance personnel and support systems and arrangements are available in accordance with items 4a-e, pp. D-9
D-10 of Appendix D of the ASOS Package.
j. Performance of Site Interfaces: The equipment can be operated in all of its required modes and in conjunction with all of its interfacing equipment per the detailed checklists of items 5a-b, pp. D-11
D-19 of Appendix D of the ASOS Package.
k. Support of Associated NWS Forecasting and Warning Services: The equipment provides proper support of NWS forecasting and warning services and archiving, including operation of all specified automatic and manually augmented modes per the checklist, items 6a-e, pp. D-20 to D-29, of Appendix D of the ASOS Package.
l. Service Backup Capabilities: Personnel, equipment, and supporting services are available and capable of providing required backup readings and services in support of operations when primary equipment is inoperable in accordance with items 7a-g, pp. D-30 to D-32, of Appendix D of the ASOS Package.
m. Augmentation Capabilities: Personnel are available and trained to provide augmentation of ASOS observations in accordance with augmentation procedures, items 8a-c, p. D-33 of Appendix D of the ASOS Package.
n. Representativeness of Observations: Observations are representative of the hydrometeorological conditions of the observing location as determined by a period of observation of at least 60 days prior to commissioning in accordance with Appendix C and item 6e, pp. D-27 to D-29 of Appendix D of the ASOS Package.

# (2) WSR-88D Radar System
Purpose:
Successful commissioning for full operational use requires a demonstration, by tests and other means, that the WSR-88D radar system, as installed in the field office, meets its technical requirements; that the prescribed operating, maintenance, and logistic support elements are in place; that operations have been properly staffed with trained personnel; and that the equipment can be operated with all other installed mating elements of the modernized NWS system.

# Note:
It may be necessary to incorporate work-arounds to complete some of the items listed below in a timely and cost-effective manner. A work-around provides for an alternative method of meeting a commissioning criteria through the application for a pre-approved operational procedure implemented on a temporary basis. The WSR-88D Plan referenced below includes a process for recommending, approving, and documenting work arounds and requires that they be tracked as open items until they can be eliminated by implementation of the originally intended capability.
Reference:
The criteria and evaluation elements for commissioning are set forth and further detailed in the NWS-Sponsored WSR-88D Site Component Commissioning Plan (the 88D Plan) and an Attachment to that Plan, called the WSR-88D Site Component Commissioning Evaluation Package (the WSR-88D Package).
Criteria:
a. WSR-88D Radar Acceptance Test: The site component acceptance test, which includes objective tests to demonstrate that the WSR-88D radar, as installed at the given site, meets its technical specifications, has been successfully completed in accordance with items 1a-f, p. A-2 of Appendix A of the WSR-88D Package.
b. Availability of Trained Operations and Maintenance Personnel: Adequate operations and maintenance staffs are available, training materials are available, and required training has been completed in accordance with items 2a-h, pp. A-3
A-4 of Appendix A of the WSR-88D Package.
c. Satisfactory Operation of System Interfaces: The system can be operated in all of its required modes and in conjunction with all of its interfacing equipment in accordance with items 3a-e, p. A-5 of Appendix A of the WSR-88D Package.
d. Satisfactory Support of Associated NWS Forecasting and Warning Services: The system provides proper support of NWS forecasting and warning services, including at least 96 percent availability of the radar coded message for a period of 30 consecutive days prior to commissioning in accordance with items 4a-kk, pp. A-6 to A-17 of Appendix A of the WSR-88D Package.
e. Service Backup Capabilities: Service backup capabilities function properly when the primary system is inoperable in accordance with items 5a-e, p. A-18 of Appendix A of the WSR-88D Package.
f. Documentation for Operations and Maintenance: A full set of operations and maintenance documentation is available in accordance with items 6a-n, pp. A-19 to A-25 of Appendix A of the WSR-88D Package.
g. Spare Parts and Test Equipment: A full complement of spare parts and test equipment is available on site in accordance with items 7a-e, p. A-26, of Appendix A of the WSR-88D Package.

# (B) Decommissioning an Outdated NWS Radar
Purpose:
Successful decommissioning of an old radar requires assurance that the existing radar is no longer needed to support delivery of services and products and local office operations.
References:
The criteria and evaluation elements for decommissioning are set forth and further detailed in the NWS-Sponsored Network and Local Warning Radars (Including Adjunct Equipment) Site Component Decommissioning Plan (the Plan), more specifically in Appendix B to that Plan, called the Site Component Decommissioning Evaluating Package, and in Section 3.3 of the Internal and External Communication and Coordination Plan for the Modernization and Associated Restructuring of the Weather Service.
Criteria:
a. Replacing WSR-88D(s) Commissioning/User Service Confirmation: The replacing WSR-88D(s) have been commissioned and user confirmation of services has been successfully completed,
i.e.,
all valid user complaints related to actual system performance have been satisfactorily resolved, in accordance with items 1a-c, p. B-10 of Appendix B of the Plan.
b. Operation Not Dependent on Existing Radar: The outdated radar is not required for service coverage, in accordance with items 2a-c, p. B-11 of Appendix B of the Plan.
c. Notification of Users: Adequate notification of users has been provided, in accordance with items 3a-f, pp. B-12
B-13 of Appendix B of the Plan.
d. Disposal of Existing Radar: Preparations for disposal of the old existing radar have been completed, in accordance with items 4a-d, pp. B-14
B-15 of Appendix B of the Plan.

# (C) Evaluating Staffing Needs for Field Offices in Affected Areas
References:
The criteria and evaluation elements are set forth and further detailed in the ASOS and WSR-88D Evaluation Packages and in the Human Resources and Position Management Plan for the National Weather Service Modernization and Associated Restructuring (the Human Resources Plan).
Criteria:
1. Availability of Trained Operations and Maintenance Personnel at a NEXRAD Weather Service Forecast Office or NEXRAD Weather Service Office: Adequate operations and maintenance staffs are available to commission a WSR-88D, specifically criterion b. set forth in section I.A.2. of this Appendix which includes meeting the Stage 1 staffing levels set forth in chapter 3 of the Human Resources Plan.
2. Availability of Trained Operations and Maintenance Personnel at any field office receiving an ASOS: Adequate operations and maintenance staff are available to meet the requirements for commissioning an ASOS, specifically criteria h and i set forth in section I.A.1 of this Appendix.

# II. Criteria for Modernization Actions Requiring Certification

# (A) Modernization Criteria Common to all Types of Certifications (Except as Noted)
1. Notification: Advanced notification and the expected date of the proposed certification have been provided in the National Implementation Plan.
2. Local Weather Characteristics and Weather Related Concerns: A description of local weather characteristics and weather related concerns which affect the weather services provided to the affected service area is provided.
3. Comparison of Services: A comparison of services before and after the proposed action demonstrates that all services currently provided to the affected service area will continue to be provided with no degradation of services.
4. Recent or Excepted Modernization of NWS Operations in the Affected Service Area: A description of recent or expected modernization of NWS operations in the affected service area is provided.
5. NEXRAD Network Coverage: NEXRAD network coverage or gaps in coverage at 10,000 feet over the affected service area are identified.
6. Air Safety Appraisal (applies only to relocation and closure of field offices at an airport): Verification that there will be no degradation of service that affects aircraft safety has been made by conducting an air safety appraisal in consultation with the Federal Aviation Administration.
7. Evaluation of Services to In-state Users (applies only to relocation and closure of the only field office in a state): Verification that there will be no degradation of weather services provided to the state has been made by evaluating the effect on weather services provided to in-State users.
8. Liaison Officer: Arrangements have been made to retain a Liaison Officer in the affected service area for at least two years to provide timely information regarding the activities of the NWS which may affect service to the community, including modernization and restructuring; and to work with area weather service users, including persons associated with general aviation, civil defense, emergency preparedness, and the news media, with respect to the provision of timely weather warnings and forecasts.
9. Meteorologist-In-Charge's (MIC) Recommendation to Certify: The MIC of the future WFO that will have responsibility for the affected service area has recommended certification in accordance with 15 CFR 946.7(a).
10. Regional Director's Certification: The cognizant Regional Director has approved the MIC's recommended certification of no degradation of service to the affected service area in accordance with 15 CFR 946.8.

# (B) Modernization Criteria Unique to Consolidation Certifications
1. WSR-88D Commissioning: All necessary WSR-88D radars have been successfully commissioned in accordance with the criteria set forth in section I.A.2. of this Appendix.
2. User Confirmation of Services: All valid user complaints related to actual system performance have been satisfactorily resolved in accordance with section 3.3 of the Internal and External Communication and Coordination Plan for the Modernization and Associated Restructuring of the National Weather Service.
3. Decommissioning of Existing Radar: The existing radar, if any, has been successfully decommissioned in accordance with the criteria set forth in section I.B. of this Appendix.

# (C) Modernization Criteria Unique to Relocation Certifications
1. Approval of Proposed Relocation Checklist: The cognizant regional director has approved a proposed relocation checklist setting forth the necessary elements in the relocation process to assure that all affected users will be given advanced notification of the relocation, that delivery of NWS services and products will not be interrupted during the office relocation, and that the office to be relocated will resume full operation at the new facility expeditiously so as to minimize the service backup period.
Specific Elements:
a. Notification of and Technical Coordination with Users: The proposed relocation checklist provides for the notification of and technical coordination with all affected users.
b. Identification and Preparation of Backup Sites: The proposed relocation checklist identifies the necessary backup sites and the steps necessary to prepare to use backup sites to ensure service coverage during the move and checkout period.
c. Start of Service Backup: The proposed relocation checklist provides for invocation of service backup by designated sites prior to office relocation.
d. Systems, Furniture and Communications: The proposed relocation checklist identifies the steps necessary to move all systems and furniture to the new facility and to install communications at the new facility.
e. Installation and Checkout: The proposed relocation checklist identifies all steps to install and checkout systems and furniture and to connect to communications at the new facility.
f. Validation of Systems Operability and Service Delivery: The proposed relocation checklist provides for validation of system operability and service delivery from the new facility.
2. Publishing of the Proposed Relocation Checklist and Evidence form Completed Moves: The proposed relocation checklist and the evidence from other similar office moves that have been completed, have been published in the
Federal Register
for public comment. The evidence from the other office moves indicates that they have been successfully completed.
3. Resolution of Public Comments Received: All responsive public comments received from publication, in the
Federal Register,
of the checklists and of the evidence from completed moves are satisfactorily answered.

# (D) Modernization Criteria Unique to Automation Certifications
1. Compliance with flight aviation rules (applies on airports only): Consultation with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has verified that the weather services provided after the commissioning of the relevant ASOS unit(s) will be in full compliance with applicable Federal Aviation Regulations promulgated by the FAA.
2. ASOS Commissioning: The relevant ASOS unit(s) have been successfully commissioned in accordance with the criteria set forth in section I.A.1 of Appendix A to the Weather Service Modernization Regulations, 15 CFR part 946.
3. User Confirmation of Services: Any valid user complaints related to actual system performance received since commissioning of the ASOS have been satisfactorily resolved
and the issues addressed in the MIC's recommendation for certification.
4. Aviation Observation Requirement: At sites subject to automation certification, all surface observations and reports required for aviation services can be generated by an ASOS augmented as necessary by non-NWS personnel.
a. The ASOS observation will be augmented/backed-up to the level specified in Appendix B as described in the Summary Chart of the FAA's Weather Observation Service Standards.
b. The transition checklist has been signed by the appropriate Region Systems Operations Division Chief (applies to service level A, B and C airports only).
c. Thunderstorm occurrence is reported in the ASOS observation through the use of a lightning sensor (applies to service level D airports only, excluding Homer, Alaska).
d. Freezing rain occurrence is reported in the ASOS observation through the use of a freezing rain sensor. Among service level D airports, this criterion is not applicable to Ely, Nevada and Lander, Wyoming.
5. Pilot Education and Outreach Completed: The Air Safety Foundation has conducted a pilot education and outreach effort to educate pilots on the use of automated observations and measure their understanding and acceptance of automated observing systems, and the MTC has had an opportunity to review the results of this effort (applies to service level D airports only).
6. General Surface Observation Requirement: The total observations available are adequate to support the required inventory of services to users in the affected area. All necessary hydrometeorological data and information are available through ASOS as augmented in accordance with this section, through those elements reported as supplementary data by the relevant Weather Forecast Office(s), or through other complementary sources. The adequacy of the total surface observation is addressed in the MTC's recommendation for certification.
ER21JY97.000

# (E) Modernization Criteria Unique to Closure Certifications
1. Consolidation Certification: If the field office proposed for closure has or will be consolidated, as defined in § 946.2 of the basic modernization regulations, this action has been completed as evidenced by the approved
certification or can be completed as evidenced by all of the documentation that all of the requirements of sections II.A. and II.B of this Annex have been completed.
2. Automation Certification: If the field office proposed for closure has or will be automated, as defined in § 946.2 of the basic modernization regulations, this action has been completed as evidenced by the approved certification or can be completed as evidenced by documentation that all of the requirements of sections II.A. and II.C. of this Annex has been completed.
3. Remaining Services and/or Observations: All remaining service and/or observational responsibilities, if applicable to the field office proposed for closure, have been transmitted as addressed in the MIC's recommendation for certification.
4. User Confirmation of Services: Any valid user complaints received related to provision of weather services have been satisfactorily resolved and the issues addressed in the MIC's recommendation for certification.
5. Warning and Forecast Verification: Warning and forecast verification statistics, produced in accordance with the Closure Certification Verification Plan, have been utilized in support of the MIC's recommendation for certification.
[59 FR 9923, Mar. 2, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 39865, July 31, 1996; 61 FR 53311, Oct. 11, 1996; 62 FR 38903, July 21, 1997]
Pt. 946, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 946—Airport Tables
“A” Level Service Airports:
*Akron, OH
CAK
*Albany, NY
ALB
*Atlanta, GA
ATL
*Baltimore, MD
BWI
*Boston, MA
BOS
Charlotte, NC
CLT
*Chicago-O'Hare (AV), IL
ORD
Cincinnati, OH
CVG
Columbus, OH
CMH
*Dayton, OH
DAY
*Des Moines, IA
DSM
*Detroit, MI
DTW
*Fairbanks, AK
FAI
*Fresno, CA
FAT
*Greensboro, NC
GSO
*Hartford, CT
BDL
Indianapolis, IN
IND
*Kansas City, MO
MCI
*Lansing, MI
LAN
Las Vegas, NV
LAS
Los Angeles (AV), CA
LAX
*Louisville, KY
SDF
*Milwaukee, WI
MKE
*Minneapolis, MN
MSP
*Newark, NJ
EWR
*Oklahoma City, OK
OKC
Phoenix, AZ
PHX
*Portland, OR
PDX
*Providence, RI
PVD
*Raleigh, NC
RDU
*Richmoind, VA
RIC
*Rochester, NY
ROC
*Rockford, IL
RFD
*San Antonio, TX
SAT
San Diego, CA
SAN
*San Francisco, CA
SFO
*Spokane, WA
GEG
*Syracuse, NY
SYR
Tallahassee, FL
TUL
Tulsa, OK
TUL
“B” Level Service Airports:
*Baton Rouge, LA
BTR
*Billings, MT
BIL
*Charleston, WV
CRW
*Chattanooga, TN
CHA
Colorado Springs, CO
COS
Daytona Beach, FL
DAB
El Paso, TX
ELP
Flint, MI
FNT
Fort Wayne, IN
FWA
Honolulu, HI
HNL
*Huntsville, AL
HSV
*Knoxville, TN
TYS
*Lincoln, NE
LNK
Lubbock, TX
LBB
*Madison, WI
MSN
*Moline, IL
MLI
*Montgomery, AL
MGM
*Muskegon, MI
MKG
*Norfolk, VA
ORF
Peoria, IL
PIA
*Savannah, GA
SAV
*South Bend, IN
SBN
Tucson, AZ
TUS
*West Palm Beach, FL
PBI
*Youngstown, OH
YNG
“C” Level Service Airports:
Abilene, TX
ABI
Allentown, PA
ABE
Asheville, NC
AVL
Athens, GA
AHN
Atlantic City, NJ
ACY
Augusta, GA
AGS
Austin, TX
AUS
Bakersfield, CA
BFL
Bridgeport, CT
BDR
Bristol, TN
TRI
Casper, WY
CPR
Columbia, MO
COU
Columbus, GA
CSG
Dubuque, IA
DBQ
Elkins, WV
EKN
Erie, PA
ERI
Eugene, OR
EUG
Evansville, IN
EVV
Fargo, ND
FAR
Fort Smith, AR
FSM
Grand Island, NE
GRI
Helena, MT
HLN
Huntington, WV
HTS
Huron, SD
HON
Kahului, HI
OGG
Key West, FL
EYW
Lewiston, ID
LWS
Lexington, KY
LEX
Lynchburg, VA
LYH
Macon, GA
MCN
Mansfield, OH
MFD
Meridian, MS
MEI
Olympia, WA
OLM
Port Arthur, TX
BPT
Portland, ME
PWM
Rapid City, SD
RAP
Redding, CA
RDD
Reno, NV
RNO
Roanoke, VA
ROA
Rochester, MN
RST
Salem, OR
SLE
Santa Maria, CA
SMX
Sioux City, IA
SUX
Springfield, IL
SPI
Stockton, CA
SCK
Toledo, OH
TOL
Waco, TX
ACT
Waterloo, IA
ALO
Wilkes-Barre, PA
AVP
Williamsport, PA
IPT
Wilmington, DE
ILG
Worcester, MA
ORH
Yakima, WA
YKM
“D” Level Service Airports:
Alamosa, CO
ALS
Alpena, MI
APN
Astoria, OR
AST
Beckley, WV
BKW
Caribou, ME
CAR
Concordia, KS
CNK
Concord, NH
CON
Ely, NV
ELY
Havre, MT
HVR
Homer, AK
HOM
Houghton Lake, MI
HTL
International Falls, MN
INL
Kalispell, MT
FCA
Lander, WY
LND
Norfolk, NE
OFK
Sault Ste. Marie, MI
SSM
Scottsbluff, NE
BFF
Sheridan, WY
SHR
St. Cloud, MN
STC
Tupelo, MS
TUP
Valentine, NE
VTN
Victoria, TX
VCT
Wichita, Falls, TX
SPS
Williston, ND
ISN
Winnemucca, NV
WMC
* Long-line RVR designated site.
[62 FR 38905, July 21, 1997]

# SUBCHAPTER D—GENERAL REGULATIONS OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SERVICE
Pt. 950

# PART 950—ENVIRONMENTAL DATA AND INFORMATION
Sec.
950.1
Scope and purpose.
950.2
Environmental Data and Information Service (EDIS).
950.3
National Climatic Center (NCC).
950.4
National Oceanographic Data Center (NODC).
950.5
National Geophysical and Solar-Terrestrial Data Center (NGSDC).
950.6
Environmental Science Information Center (ESIC).
950.7
Center for Environmental Assessment Services (CEAS).
950.8
Satellite Data Services Division (SDSD).
950.9
Computerized Environmental Data and Information Retrieval Service.
Appendix A to Part 950—Schedule of User Fees for Access to NOAA Environmental Data

# Authority:
(5 U.S.C. 552, 553). Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1970.

# Source:
44 FR 54468, Sept. 20, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 950.1
Scope and purpose.
This part describes the Environmental Data and Information Service (EDIS), a major program element of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and EDIS management of environmental data and information.
§ 950.2
Environmental Data and Information Service (EDIS).
The Environmental Data and Information Service is the first Federal organization created specifically to manage environmental data and information. EDIS acquires, processes, archives, analyzes, and disseminates worldwide environmental (atmospheric, marine, solar, and solid Earth) data and information for use by commerce, industry, the scientific and engineering communities, and the general public, as well as by Federal, State, and local governments. It also provides experiment design and data management support to large-scale environmental experiments; assesses the impact of environmental fluctuations on food production, energy production and consumption, environmental quality, and other economic systems; and manages or provides functional guidance for NOAA's scientific and technical publication and library activities. In addition, EDIS operates related World Data Center-A subcenters and participates in other international data and information exchange programs. To carry out this mission, EDIS operates a network of specialized service centers and a computerized environmental data and information retrieval service.
§ 950.3
National Climatic Center (NCC).
The National Climatic Center acquires, processes, archives, analyzes, and disseminates climatological data; develops analytical and descriptive products to meet user requirements; and provides facilities for the World Data Center-A (Meteorology). It is the collection center and custodian of all United States weather records, the largest of the EDIS centers, and the largest climatic center in the world.
(a) Climatic data available from NCC include:
(1) Hourly Surface Observations from Land Stations (ceiling, sky cover, visibility, precipitation or other weather phenomena, obstructions to vision, pressure, temperature, dew point, wind direction, wind speed, gustiness).
(2) Three-Hourly and Six-Hourly Surface Observations from Land Stations, Ocean Weather Stations, and Moving Ships (variable data content).
(3) Upper Air Observations (radiosondes, rawinsondes, rocketsondes, low-level soundings, pilot-balloon winds, aircraft reports).
(4) Radar Observations (radar log sheets, radar scope photography).
(5) Selected Maps and Charts (National Meteorological Center products).
(6) Derived and Summary Data (grid points, computer tabulations, digital summary data).
(7) Special Collections (Barbados Oceanographic and Meteorological Experiment meteorological data, Global
Atmospheric Research Program basic data set, solar radiation data, many others).
(b) Queries should be addressed to: National Climatic Center, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Asheville, NC 28801, tel. 704-258-2850, Ext. 683.
§ 950.4
National Oceanographic Data Center (NODC).
The National Oceanographic Data Center acquires, processes, archives, analyzes, and disseminates oceanographic data; develops analytical and descriptive products to meet user requirements; and provides facilities for the World Data Center-A (Oceanography). It was the first NODC established and houses the world's largest usuable collection of marine data.
(a) Oceanographic data available from NODC include:
(1) Mechanical and expendable bathytheremograph data in analog and digital form.
(2) Oceanographic station data for surface and serial depths, giving values of temperature, salinity, oxygen, inorganic phosphate, total phosphorus, nitrite-nitrogen, nitrate-nitrogen, silicate-silicon, and pH.
(3) Continuously recorded salinity-temperature-depth data in digital form.
(4) Surface current information obtained by using drift bottle or calculated from ship set and drift.
(5) Biological data, giving values of plankton standing crop, chlorophyll concentrations, and rates of primary productivity.
(6) Other marine environmental data obtained by diverse techniques, e.g., instrumented buoy data, and current meter data.
(b) Queries should be addressed to: National Oceanographic Data Center, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Washington, DC 20235, tel. 202-634-7500.
§ 950.5
National Geophysical and Solar-Terrestrial Data Center (NGSDC).
The National Geophysical and Solar-Terrestrial Data Center acquires, processes, archives, analyzes, and disseminates solid Earth and marine geophysical data as well as ionospheric, solar, and other space environment data; develops analytical, climatological, and descriptive products to meet user requirements; and provides facilities for World Data Center-A (Solid-Earth Geophysics, Solar Terrestrial Physics, and Glaciology).
(a) Geophysical and solar-terrestrial data available from NGSDC include:
(1)
Marine geology and geophysics.
Bathymetric measurement; seismic reflection profiles; gravimetric measurements; geomagnetic total field measurements; and geological data, including data on heat flow, cores, samples, and sediments.
(2)
Solar-Terrestrial physics.
Ionosphere data, including ionograms, frequency plots, riometer and field-strength strip charts, and tabulations; solar activity data; geomagnetic variation data, including magnetograms; auroral data; cosmic ray data; and airglow data.
(3)
Seismology.
Seismograms; accelerograms; digitized strong-motion accelerograms; earthquake data list (events since January 1900); earthquake data service with updates on a monthly basis.
(4)
Geomagnetic main field.
Magnetic survey data and secular-change data tables.
(b) Queries should be addressed to: National Geophysical and Solar-Terrestrial Data Center, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Boulder, CO 80303, tel. 303-499-1000, ext. 6215.
§ 950.6
Environmental Science Information Center (ESIC).
ESIC is NOAA's information specialist, librarian, and publisher. ESIC coordinates NOAA's library and information services and its participation in the national network of scientific information centers and libraries. Computerized literature searches provide information from over 80 data bases. The complete list of data bases is available on request. All ESIC information facilities provide the normal library tailored information and reference services. As NOAA's publisher of scientific and technical information, ESIC reviews, edits, and processes NOAA manuscripts for publication.
(a) Services available from ESIC include:
(1)
Reference services.
Some services are provided on a cost-recovery basis to non-NOAA individuals.
(2)
Publication copy services.
Copies of NOAA publications are provided on request from qualified users, including governments, universities, non-profit organizations, professional societies, chambers of commerce, public information media, and individuals and organizations having cooperative or exchange agreements with NOAA.
(3)
Bibliographies.
Special bibliographies are prepared on request. When provided to non-NOAA individuals, service is on a full cost-recovery basis.
(4)
Current awareness services.
Periodically provides announcements of titles of newly published NOAA scientific and technical publications.
(5)
Lending services.
Materials are loaned to other libraries and to NOAA employees.
(6) On-site use of library collections.
(7)
Publishing services.
Includes providing refereeing, reviewing, editing, and publishing services for NOAA authors of manuscripts destined for both NOAA and non-NOAA publication series.
(b) Queries should be addressed to: Environmental Science Information Center, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Rockville, MD 20852, tel. 301-443-8137.
§ 950.7
Center for Environmental Assessment Services (CEAS).
EDIS assists National decisionmakers in solving problems by providing data analyses, applications, assessments, and interpretations to meet their particular requirements. Many of these services are provided by the EDIS Center for Environmental Assessment Services (CEAS).
(a) The following are examples of CEAS projects and services:
(1) CEAS prepares data-based studies and weekly assessments of potential effects of climatic fluctuations on National and global grain production.
(2) CEAS provides environmental analyses and assessments to support efficient and effective planning, site selection, design, construction, and operation of supertanker ports and offshore drilling rigs. Such planning depends heavily upon environmental assessments.
(3) During the heating season, CEAS issues monthly and seasonal projections of natural gas demand for multi-State regions of the conterminous United States. Similar projections are made for electricity during the cooling season.
(4) CEAS has developed and makes available when needed a statistical oil spill trajectory risk model based on historical meteorological and oceanographic data.
(5) The center has analyzed the potential ecological effects of the planned disposal of huge volumes of saturated brine into Gulf waters for the National Strategic Petroleum Reserve and may be called on to provide similar services in other subject areas.
(6) CEAS provides experiment design, data analysis, and data management support to project managers and produces merged, validated multidisciplinary data sets for international and national study (such undertakings as the recent key role in the Global Atmospheric Research Program (GARP) experiments).
(7) CEAS provides special data or information as required. Currently the Center is assembling an inventory of cruises and a global oceanographic data base from observations taken during the First GARP Global Experiment (FGGE).
(b) Additional information on these or related services can be obtained by writing: Director, Center for Environmental Assessment Services, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Washington, DC 20235; or by calling (202) 634-7251.
§ 950.8
Satellite Data Services Division (SDSD).
The Satellite Data Services Division of the EDIS National Climatic Center provides environmental and earth resources satellite data to other users once the original collection purposes (
i.e.
, weather forecasting) have been satisfied. The division also provides photographs collected during NASA's SKYLAB missions.
(a) Satellite data available from SDSD include:
(1) Data from the TIROS (Television InfraRed Observational Satellite) series of experimental spacecraft; much of the imagery gathered by spacecraft of the NASA experimental NIMBUS series; full-earth disc photographs from NASA's Applications Technology Satellites (ATS) I and III geostationary research spacecraft; tens of thousands of images from the original ESSA and current NOAA series of Improved TIROS Operational Satellites; and both full-disc and sectorized images from the Synchronous Meteorological Satellites (SMS) 1 and 2, the current operational geostationary spacecraft. In addition to visible light imagery, infrared data are available from the NIMBUS, NOAA, and SMS satellites. Each day, SDSD receives about 239 negatives from the polar-orbiting NOAA spacecraft, more than 235 SMS-1 and 2 negatives, and several special negatives and movie film loops.
(2) Photographs (both color and black-and-white) taken during the three SKYLAB missions (May through June, 1973, July through September, 1973, and November 1973 through February 1974).
(b) Queries should be addressed to: Satellite Data Services Division, World Weather Building, Room 606, Washington, DC 20233, tel. 301-763-8111.
§ 950.9
Computerized Environmental Data and Information Retrieval Service.
The Environmental Data Index (ENDEX) provides rapid, automated referral to multidiscipline environmental data files of NOAA, other Federal agencies, state and local governments, and universities, research institutes, and private industry. A computerized, information retrieval service provides a parallel subject-author-abstract referral service. A telephone call to any EDIS data or information center or NOAA library will allow a user access to these services.
Pt. 950, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 950—Schedule of User Fees for Access to NOAA Environmental Data
Name of product/data/publication/information/service
NOAA National Center for Environmental Information
Current fee
New fee
Department of Commerce Certification
$153.00
$168.00
General Certification
133.00
146.00
Paper Copy
10.00
11.00
Data Poster
15.00
15.00
Shipping Service
10.00
12.00
Rush order fee
65.00
73.00
Super Rush Order Fee
109.00
124.00
Foreign Handling Fee
47.00
55.00
NEXRAD Doppler radar Color Prints
27.00
29.00
Paper Copy from Electronic Media
10.00
11.00
Offline In-Situ Digital Data
113.00
125.00
Satellite Image Product
75.00
82.00
Offline Satellite, Radar, and Model Digital Data (average unit size is 1 terabyte)
455.00
612.00
Conventional CD-ROM/DVD
94.00
104.00
Specialized CD-ROM/DVD
204.00
226.00
CD-ROM/DVD Copy, Offline
76.00
84.00
CD-ROM/DVD Copy, Online Store
34.00
39.00
Order Handling/Quality Check
23.00
26.00
Non-Digital Order Consultation
13.00
14.00
Digital Order Consultation
31.00
34.00
Single Orbit OLS
Subset
19.00
20.00
Single Orbit OLS
Subset, Additional Orbits
7.00
7.00
Global Nighttime Lights Monthly Composite—one satellite
9,508.00
9,988.00
High Definition Geomagnetic Model
24,129.00
26,714.00
High Definition Geomagnetic Model—Real Time (HDGM-RT)
30,915.00
34,793.00
Expedited Shipping Service
New product
29.00
Research Data Series CD-ROM/DVD
20
(*)
* Indicates a product no longer offered.
[88 FR 56466, Aug. 18, 2023]
Pt. 960

# PART 960—LICENSING OF PRIVATE REMOTE SENSING SPACE SYSTEMS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
960.1
Purpose.
960.2
Jurisdiction.
960.3
Applicability to existing licenses.
960.4
Definitions.

# Subpart B—License Application Submission and Categorization
960.5
Application submission.
960.6
Application categorization.

# Subpart C—License Application Review and License Conditions
960.7
License grant or denial.
960.8
Standard license conditions for all tiers.
960.9
Additional standard license conditions for Tier 2 systems.
960.10
Additional standard and temporary license conditions for Tier 3 systems.
960.11
No additional conditions.
960.12
Applicant-requested waiver before license issuance.
960.13
Licensee-requested modification after license issuance.
960.14
Routine compliance and monitoring.
960.15
Term of license.

# Subpart D—Prohibitions and Enforcement
960.16
Prohibitions.
960.17
Investigations and enforcement.

# Subpart E—Appeals Regarding Licensing Decisions
960.18
Grounds for adjudication by the Secretary.
960.19
Administrative appeal procedures.
Appendix A to Part 960—Application Information Required
Appendix B to Part 960—Application Submission Instructions
Appendix C to Part 960—License Template
Appendix D to Part 960—Memorandum of Understanding

# Authority:
51 U.S.C. 60124.

# Source:
85 FR 30806, May 20, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 960.1
Purpose.
(a) The regulations in this part implement the Secretary's authority to license the operation of private remote sensing space systems under the Land Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992, as amended, codified at 51 U.S.C. 60101
et seq.,
and are intended to promote continued U.S. private sector innovation and leadership in the global remote sensing industry.
(b) In carrying out this part, the Secretary takes into account the following considerations:
(1) Technological changes in remote sensing;
(2) Non-technological changes in the remote sensing space industry, such as to business models and practices;
(3) The relative burden to licensees and benefits to national security and international policies of license conditions;
(4) Changes in the methods to mitigate risks to national security and international policies;
(5) International obligations of the United States;
(6) The availability of data from sources in other nations;
(7) The remote sensing regulatory environment in other nations; and
(8) The potential for overlapping regulatory burdens imposed by other U.S. Government agencies.
§ 960.2
Jurisdiction.
(a) The regulations in this part set forth the requirements for the operation of private remote sensing space systems within the United States or by a U.S. person.
(b) Instruments used primarily for mission assurance or other technical purposes, including but not limited to navigation, attitude control, monitoring spacecraft health, separation events, or payload deployments, such as traditional star trackers, sun sensors, and horizon sensors, shall not be subject to this part.
(c) In the case of a system that is used for remote sensing and other purposes, as determined by the Secretary, the scope of the license issued under this part will not extend to the operation of instruments that do not support remote sensing.
(d) The Secretary does not authorize the use of spectrum for radio communications by a private remote sensing space system.
§ 960.3
Applicability to existing licenses.
(a) After reviewing each license existing prior to July 20, 2020, on July 20, 2020, the Secretary will either:
(1) Replace the existing license with one developed in accordance with this part, retaining any applicable waivers and modifications; or
(2) If the Secretary determines that an existing licensee no longer requires a license under this part the Secretary will notify the existing licensee that the license is terminated.
(b) The replacement license or termination determination will be effective 30 days after delivery by the Secretary to existing licensees. Existing licensees who object to their existing license being replaced or terminated must notify the Secretary in writing within those 30 days, and specify their objection in the notification.
§ 960.4
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following terms have the following meanings:
Act
means the Land Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992, as amended, codified at 51 U.S.C. 60101,
et seq.
Anomaly
means an unexpected event or abnormal characteristic affecting the operations of a system that could indicate a significant technical malfunction or security threat. Anomalies include any significant deviation from the orbit and data collection characteristics of the system.
Appellant
means a person to whom the Secretary has certified an appeal request.
Applicant
means a person who submits an application to operate a private remote sensing space system.
Application
means a document submitted by a person to the Secretary that contains all the information described in appendix A of this part.
Available
means readily and consistently obtainable by an entity or individual other than the U.S. Government or a foreign government.
Ground sample distance
or
GSD
refers to the common measurement for describing the spatial resolution of unenhanced data created from most remote sensing instruments, typically measured in meters. A resolution “finer than” X meters GSD means the resolution is a number lower than X. For example, 5 meters GSD is finer than 10 meters GSD.
In writing
or
written
means written communication, physically or electronically signed (if applicable), transmitted via email, forms submitted on the Secretary's website, or traditional mail.
License
means a license granted by the Secretary under the Act.
Licensee
means a person to whom the Secretary has granted a license under the Act.
Material fact
means a fact an applicant provides in the application, or a fact in Parts C or D of a license.
Memorandum of Understanding
or
MOU
means the April 25, 2017 version of the “Memorandum of Understanding Among the Departments of Commerce, State, Defense, and Interior, and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Concerning the Licensing and Operations of Private Remote Sensing Satellite Systems,” which is included as appendix D of this part. In the event that any provisions of the MOU conflict with this part, this part shall govern.
Modification
means any change in the text of a license after issuance.
Operate
means to have decision-making authority over the functioning of a remote sensing instrument. If there are multiple entities involved, the entity with the ultimate ability to decide what unenhanced data to collect with the instrument and to execute that decision, directly or through a legal arrangement with a third party such as a ground station or platform owner, is considered to be operating that system.
Person
or
private sector party
means any entity or individual other than agencies or instrumentalities of the U.S. Government.
Private remote sensing space system
or
system
means an instrument that is capable of conducting remote sensing and which is not owned by an agency or instrumentality of the U.S. Government. A system must contain a remote sensing instrument and all additional components that support operating the remote sensing instrument, receipt of unenhanced data, and data preprocessing, regardless of whether
the component is owned or managed by the applicant or licensee, or by a third party through a legal arrangement with the applicant or licensee.
Remote sensing
means the collection of unenhanced data by an instrument in orbit of the Earth which can be processed into imagery of surface features of the Earth.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce, or his or her designee.
Significant or substantial foreign agreement
means a contract or legal arrangement with a foreign national, entity, or consortium involving foreign nations or entities, only if executing such contract or arrangement would require a license modification under § 960.13.
Subsidiary or affiliate
means a person who directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by or is under common control with, the applicant or licensee.
Substantially the same
means that one item is a market substitute for another, taking into account all applicable factors. When comparing data, factors include but are not limited to the data's spatial resolution, spectral bandwidth, number of imaging bands, temporal resolution, persistence of imaging, local time of imaging, geographic or other restrictions imposed by foreign governments, and all applicable technical system factors listed in the application in appendix A of this part.
Unenhanced data
means the output from a remote sensing instrument, including imagery products, which is either unprocessed or preprocessed. Preprocessing includes rectification of system and sensor distortions in data as it is received directly from the instrument in preparation for delivery to a user, registration of such data with respect to features of the Earth, and calibration of spectral response with respect to such data, but does not include conclusions, manipulations, or calculations derived from such data, or a combination of such data with other data.
U.S. person
means:
(1) Any individual who is a citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States; and
(2) Any corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, or other entity organized or existing under the laws of the United States or any State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
Waiver
means any change from the standard license text in § 960.8, § 960.9, or § 960.10, which change is included in a license upon license issuance, in response to a request by the applicant pursuant to § 960.12.

# Subpart B—License Application Submission and Categorization
§ 960.5
Application submission.
(a) Before submitting an application, a person may consult informally with the Secretary to discuss matters under this part, including whether a license is likely to be required for a system.
(b) A person may submit an application for a license in accordance with the specific instructions found in appendix B of this part. The application must contain fully accurate and responsive information, as described in appendix A of this part. Responses an applicant provides to each prompt in the application constitute material facts.
(c) Within seven days of the submission, the Secretary shall determine, after consultation with the Secretaries of Defense and State, whether the submission is a complete application meeting the requirements of appendix A of this part. If the submission is a complete application, the Secretary shall immediately notify the applicant in writing. If the submission is not a complete application, the Secretary shall inform the applicant in writing of what additional information or clarification is required to complete the application.
(d) If any information the applicant submitted becomes inaccurate or incomplete at any time after submission to the Secretary but before license grant or denial, the applicant must
contact the Secretary and submit correct and updated information as instructed by the Secretary. The Secretary will determine whether the change is significant. If the Secretary determines that the change is significant, the Secretary will notify the applicant within seven days of receipt of the correct and updated information that the revision constitutes a new application submission under paragraph (b) of this section, and that the previous application is deemed to have been withdrawn.
(e) Upon request by the applicant, the Secretary shall provide an update on the status of their application review.
§ 960.6
Application categorization.
(a) Within seven days of the Secretary's notification to the applicant under § 960.5(c) that the application is complete, the Secretary shall determine, after consultation with the Secretaries of Defense and State as appropriate, the category for the system as follows:
(1) If the application proposes a system with the capability to collect unenhanced data substantially the same as unenhanced data already available from entities or individuals not licensed under this part, such as foreign entities, the Secretary shall categorize the application as Tier 1;
(2) If the application proposes a system with the capability to collect unenhanced data substantially the same as unenhanced data already available, but only from entities or individuals licensed under this part, the Secretary shall categorize the application as Tier 2; and
(3) If the application proposes a system with the capability to collect unenhanced data not substantially the same as unenhanced data already available from any domestic or foreign entity or individual, the Secretary shall categorize the application as Tier 3.
(b) If the Secretary of Defense or State disagrees with the Secretary's determination in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary of Defense or State may notify the Secretary and request the Secretary's reconsideration. Such a request for reconsideration may not be delegated below the Assistant Secretary level. If the Secretary of Defense or State disagrees with the Secretary's reconsideration decision, the Secretary of Defense or State may appeal that tier categorization pursuant to the interagency dispute resolution procedures in Section IV(B) of the MOU, but only at the Advisory Committee on Private Remote Sensing Space Systems level or higher. The Secretary shall categorize the system in accordance with the decision resulting from such MOU procedures.
(c) The system shall remain in the tier assigned to it under paragraph (a) in this section until such time as the Secretary determines, after consultation with the Secretaries of Defense and State as appropriate, that the system belongs in a lower-numbered tier due to the advancement of non-U.S. commercial remote sensing capabilities or due to other facts, or until the Secretary grants the licensee's request for a license modification that results in re-categorization under § 960.13. When the Secretary determines that a lower-numbered tier is appropriate due to reasons other than a modification under § 960.13, the Secretary will notify the applicant or licensee in writing that the system falls under a lower-numbered tier than the one previously assigned under this section. Upon receiving that notification, the applicant or licensee will be responsible for complying only with the license conditions applicable to the new tier.

# Subpart C—Application Review and License Conditions
§ 960.7
License grant or denial.
(a) Based on the Secretary's review of the application, the Secretary must determine whether the applicant will comply with the requirements of the Act, this part, and the license. The Secretary will presume that the applicant will comply, unless the Secretary has specific, credible evidence to the contrary. If the Secretary determines that the applicant will comply, the Secretary shall grant the license.
(b) The Secretary shall make the determination in paragraph (a) of this section within 60 days of the notification under § 960.5(c), and shall notify
the applicant in writing whether the license is granted or denied.
(c) If the Secretary has not notified the applicant whether the license is granted or denied within 60 days, the applicant may submit a request that the license be granted. Within three days of this request, the Secretary shall grant the license, unless the Secretary determines with specific, credible evidence that the applicant will not comply with the requirements of the Act, this part, or the license, in which case the Secretary will deny the license, or the Secretary and the applicant mutually agree to extend this review period.
§ 960.8
Standard license conditions for all tiers.
All licenses granted under this part shall specify that the licensee shall:
(a) Comply with the Act, this part, the license, applicable domestic legal obligations, and the international obligations of the United States;
(b) Operate the system in such manner as to preserve the national security of the United States and to observe international obligations and policies, as articulated in the other conditions included in this license;
(c) Upon request, offer to the government of any country (including the United States) unenhanced data collected by the system concerning the territory under the jurisdiction of such government without delay and on reasonable terms and conditions, unless doing so would be prohibited by law or license conditions;
(d) Upon termination of operations under the license, make disposition of any satellites in space in a manner satisfactory to the President;
(e) Notify the Secretary in writing of each of the following events, no later than seven days after the event:
(1) The launch and deployment of each system component, to include confirmation that the component matches the orbital parameters and data collection characteristics of the system, as described in Part D of the license;
(2) Each disposal of an on-orbit component of the system;
(3) The detection of an anomaly; and
(4) The licensee's financial insolvency or dissolution;
(f) Request and receive approval for a license modification before taking any action that would change a material fact in the license;
(g) Certify that all material facts in the license remain accurate pursuant to the procedures in § 960.14 no later than October 15th of each year;
(h) Cooperate with compliance, monitoring, and enforcement authorities described in the Act and this part, and permit the Secretary to access, at all reasonable times and with no shorter notice than 48 hours, any component of the system for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the Act, this part, and the license; and
(i) Refrain from disseminating unenhanced data, or processed data or products derived from the licensee's system, of the State of Israel at a resolution finer than the resolution most recently specified by the Secretary in the
Federal Register
as being available from commercial sources.
§ 960.9
Additional standard license conditions for Tier 2 systems.
If the Secretary has categorized the system as Tier 2 under § 960.6, the license shall specify that the licensee shall comply with the conditions listed in § 960.8 and further shall comply with the following conditions until the Secretary notifies the licensee that the system belongs in a lower-numbered tier:
(a) Comply with limited-operations directives issued by the Secretary, in accordance with a determination made by the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of State pursuant to the procedures in Section IV(D) of the MOU, that require licensees to temporarily limit data collection and/or dissemination during periods of increased concerns for national security and where necessary to meet international obligation or foreign policy interests; and:
(1) Be able to comply with limited-operations directives at all times. This includes:
(i) The ability to implement National Institute of Standards and Technology-approved encryption, in accordance with the manufacturer's security policy, wherein the key length is at least
256 bits, for communications to and from the on-orbit components of the system related to tracking, telemetry, and control and for transmissions throughout the system of the data specified in the limited-operations directive; and
(ii) Implementing measures, consistent with industry best practice for entities of similar size and business operations, that prevent unauthorized access to the system and identify any unauthorized access in the event of a limited-operations directive;
(2) Provide and continually update the Secretary with a point of contact and an alternate point of contact for limited-operations directives; and
(3) During any such limited-operations directive, permit the Secretary to immediately access any component of the system for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the limited-operations directive, the Act, this part, and the license.
(b) Conduct resolved imaging of other artificial resident space objects (ARSO) orbiting the Earth only with the written consent of the registered owner of the ARSO to be imaged and with notification to the Secretary at least five days prior to imaging. For purposes of this paragraph (b), “resolved imaging” means the imaging of another ARSO that results in data depicting the ARSO with a resolution of 3 x 3 pixels or greater.
§ 960.10
Additional standard and temporary license conditions for Tier 3 systems.
(a) If the Secretary has categorized the system as Tier 3 under § 960.6, the license shall specify that the licensee shall comply with the conditions listed in § 960.8 and further shall comply with the following conditions until the Secretary notifies the licensee that the system belongs in a lower-numbered tier for which the following conditions are not required:
(1) Comply with limited-operations directives issued by the Secretary, in accordance with a determination made by the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of State pursuant to the procedures in Section IV(D) of the MOU, that require licensees to temporarily limit data collection and/or dissemination during periods of increased concerns for national security and where necessary to meet international obligations or foreign policy interests; and:
(i) Be able to comply with limited-operations directives at all times. This includes:
(A) The ability to implement National Institute of Standards and Technology-approved encryption, in accordance with the manufacturer's security policy, wherein the key length is at least 256 bits, for communications to and from the on-orbit components of the system related to tracking, telemetry, and control and for transmissions throughout the system of the data specified in the limited-operations directive; and
(B) Implementing measures, consistent with industry best practice for entities of similar size and business operations, that prevent unauthorized access to the system and identify any unauthorized access in the event of a limited-operations directive;
(ii) Provide and continually update the Secretary with a point of contact and an alternate point of contact for limited-operations directives; and
(iii) During any such limited-operations directive, permit the Secretary to immediately access any component of the system for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the limited-operations directive, the Act, this part, and the license.
(2) Conduct resolved imaging of other artificial resident space objects (ARSO) orbiting the Earth only with the written consent of the registered owner of the ARSO to be imaged and with notification to the Secretary at least five days prior to imaging, or as may otherwise be provided in a temporary license condition developed under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), “resolved imaging” means the imaging of another ARSO that results in data depicting the ARSO with a resolution of 3 x 3 pixels or greater.
(3) Comply with any temporary license conditions developed in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section until their specified expiration date, including any extensions of the expiration date.
(b) To determine whether additional temporary license conditions are necessary, the Secretary shall notify the Secretaries of Defense and State of any system categorized as Tier 3 under § 960.6. The Secretaries of Defense and State shall determine whether any temporary license conditions are necessary (in addition to the standard license conditions in § 960.8) to meet national security concerns or international obligations and policies of the United States regarding that system. Within 21 days of receiving the notification, the Secretary of Defense or State shall notify the Secretary of any such conditions and the length of time such conditions should remain in place, which shall not exceed one year from the earlier of either when the licensee first delivers unenhanced data suitable for evaluating the system's capabilities to the Secretary (under reasonable terms and conditions or other mutually agreed arrangement with the Secretary of Defense or State), or when the Secretary of Defense or State first obtains comparably suitable data from another source, unless the length of such condition is extended in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) The Secretary shall review the notification from the Secretary of Defense or State under paragraph (b) of this section and aim to craft the least restrictive temporary license condition(s) possible, before the expiration of the 60-day application review period under § 960.7(b). In crafting such conditions the Secretary shall consult, as appropriate, with the Secretaries of Defense and State and the applicant or licensee, to determine whether the proposed condition would be consistent with applicable laws. In making this determination, the Secretary shall consider whether:
(1) The risk addressed by the proposed condition is specific and compelling;
(2) The proposed condition would be effective against the risk;
(3) The proposed condition addresses only the data proposed to be collected that are not available from any domestic or foreign source;
(4) The U.S. Government cannot currently mitigate the risk without the proposed condition;
(5) The U.S. Government cannot address the risk by some less restrictive means than the proposed condition; and
(6) The applicant or licensee can mitigate the risk by taking alternative action.
(d) When considering the factors under paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section, the Secretary shall accept as final the determinations made by the Secretary of Defense or State as appropriate, in such Secretary's notification to the Secretary of the need for such conditions. If the Secretary determines that a condition proposed by the Secretary of Defense or State would be consistent with applicable law, the Secretary shall include such condition in the license, absent any elevation of a dispute under paragraph (f) of this section.
(e) The Secretary will notify the Secretaries of Defense and State 90 days before the expiration of a temporary condition imposed under this section. If, within 30 days after such notification, either the Secretary of Defense or State notifies the Secretary that an extension is needed, the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Defense or State about the ongoing need for the temporary condition. The Secretary may extend the expiration date of the temporary condition for a maximum of one year, and may extend the condition no more than two times unless requested by the Secretary of Defense or State. The authority to request such additional extensions shall not be delegated by the Secretary of Defense or State. Therefore, absent a request specifically from the Secretary of Defense or State, any temporary condition may exist for no more than a total of three years. The Secretary shall grant an extension if the Secretary determines that:
(1) The Secretary requesting the extension has shown that the considerations in paragraph (c) of this section justify an extension; and
(2) The Secretary has notified the affected licensee no less than 60 days before the expiration of the temporary condition that an extension is being sought.
(f) If, at any point during the procedures in this section, the Secretary,
the Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary of State objects to any determination, they may elevate the objection pursuant to the interagency dispute resolution procedures in Section IV(B) of the MOU.
§ 960.11
No additional conditions.
No other conditions shall be included in a license granted under this part, or imposed in such a license after the license has been issued, except in accordance with the provisions of § 960.13 or § 960.17.
§ 960.12
Applicant-requested waiver before license issuance.
As part of the application, the applicant may request that any condition listed in § 960.8, § 960.9, or § 960.10 be waived or adjusted. The Secretary may approve the request to waive or adjust any such condition if the Secretary determines, after consultation with the Secretaries of Defense and State as appropriate, that the Secretary may waive or adjust the condition without violating the Act or other law, and:
(a) The requirement is not applicable due to the nature of the applicant or the proposed system;
(b) The applicant will achieve the goal in a different way; or
(c) There is other good cause to waive or adjust the condition.
§ 960.13
Licensee-requested modification after license issuance.
(a) The licensee may request in writing that the Secretary modify the license after the license is issued. Such requests should include the reason for the request and relevant supporting documentation.
(b) If the Secretary determines that the requested modification of a license would result in its re-categorization from Tier 1 to Tier 2 under § 960.6, the Secretary shall notify the licensee that approval would require issuance of the conditions in § 960.9, and provide the licensee an opportunity to withdraw or revise the request.
(c) If the Secretary determines that the requested modification of a license would result in its re-categorization from Tier 1 or 2 to Tier 3 under § 960.6, the Secretary shall consult with the Secretaries of Defense or State, as appropriate, to determine whether approval of the request would require additional temporary conditions in accordance with the procedures in § 960.10. If so, the Secretary shall notify the licensee that approval would require such additional temporary conditions, and provide the licensee an opportunity to withdraw or revise the request.
(d) The Secretary shall approve or deny a modification request after consultation with the Secretaries of Defense and State as appropriate, and shall inform the licensee of the approval or denial within 60 days of the request, unless the Secretary and the applicant mutually agree to extend this review period.
§ 960.14
Routine compliance and monitoring.
(a) Annually, by the date specified in the license, the licensee will certify in writing to the Secretary that each material fact in the license remains accurate.
(b) If any material fact in the license is no longer accurate at the time the certification is due, the licensee must:
(1) Provide all accurate material facts;
(2) Explain the reason for any discrepancies between the terms in the license and the accurate material fact; and
(3) Seek guidance from the Secretary on how to correct any errors, which may include requesting a license modification.
§ 960.15
Term of license.
(a) The license term begins when the Secretary transmits the signed license to the licensee, regardless of the operational status of the system.
(b) The license is valid until the Secretary confirms in writing that the license is terminated, because the Secretary has determined that one of the following has occurred:
(1) The licensee has successfully disposed of, or has taken all actions necessary to successfully dispose of, all on-orbit components of the system, and is in compliance with all other requirements of the Act, this part, and the license;
(2) The licensee never had system components on orbit and has requested to end the license term;
(3) The license is terminated pursuant to § 960.17; or
(4) The licensee has executed one of the following transfers, subsequent to the Secretary's approval of such transfer:
(i) Ownership of the system, or the operations thereof, to an agency or instrumentality of the U.S. Government; or
(ii) Operations to a person who is not a U.S. person and who will not operate the system from the United States.

# Subpart D—Prohibitions and Enforcement
§ 960.16
Prohibitions.
Any person who operates a system from the United States and any person who is a U.S. person shall not, directly or through a subsidiary or affiliate:
(a) Operate a system without a current, valid license for that system;
(b) Violate the Act, this part, or any license condition;
(c) Submit false information, interfere with, mislead, obstruct, or otherwise frustrate the Secretary's actions and responsibilities under this part in any form at any time, including in the application, during application review, during the license term, in any compliance and monitoring activities, or in enforcement activities; or
(d) Fail to obtain approval for a license modification before taking any action that would change a material fact in the license.
§ 960.17
Investigations and enforcement.
(a) The Secretary may investigate, provide penalties for noncompliance, and prevent future noncompliance, by using the authorities specified at 51 U.S.C. 60123(a).
(b) When the Secretary undertakes administrative enforcement proceedings as authorized by 51 U.S.C. 60123(a)(3) and (4), the parties will follow the procedures provided at 15 CFR part 904.

# Subpart E—Appeals Regarding Licensing Decisions
§ 960.18
Grounds for adjudication by the Secretary.
(a) In accordance with the procedures in this subpart, a person may appeal the following adverse actions for adjudication by the Secretary:
(1) The denial of a license;
(2) The categorization of a system in a tier;
(3) The failure to make a final determination on a license grant or denial or a licensee's modification request within the timelines provided in this part;
(4) The imposition of a license condition;
(5) The denial of a licensee-requested license modification; and
(6) The replacement of an existing license with a license granted under § 960.3(a)(1) or termination of an existing license under § 960.3(a)(2).
(b) The only acceptable grounds for appeal of the actions in paragraph (a) of this section are as follows:
(1) The Secretary's action was arbitrary, capricious, or contrary to law; or
(2) The action was based on a clear factual error.
(c) No appeal is allowed to the extent that there is involved the conduct of military or foreign affairs functions.
§ 960.19
Administrative appeal procedures.
(a) A person wishing to appeal an action specified at § 960.18(a) may do so within 21 days of the action by submitting a written request to the Secretary.
(b) The request must include a detailed explanation of the reasons for the appeal, citing one of the grounds specified in § 960.18(b).
(c) Upon receipt of a request under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary shall review the request to certify that it meets the requirements of this subpart and chapter 7 of title 5 of the United States Code. If it does, the Secretary shall coordinate with the appellant to schedule a hearing before a hearing officer designated by the Secretary. If the Secretary does not certify the request, the Secretary shall
notify the person in writing that no appeal is allowed, and this notification shall constitute a final agency action.
(d) The hearing shall be held in a timely manner. It shall provide the appellant and the Secretary an opportunity to present evidence and arguments.
(e) Hearings may be closed to the public, and other actions taken as the Secretary deems necessary, to prevent the disclosure of any information required by law to be protected from disclosure.
(f) At the close of the hearing, the hearing officer shall recommend a decision to the Secretary addressing all factual and legal arguments.
(g) Based on the record of the hearing and the recommendation of the hearing officer, and after consultation, as appropriate, with the Secretaries of Defense and State in decisions implicating national security and international obligations and policy, respectively, the Secretary shall make a decision adopting, rejecting, or modifying the recommendation of the hearing officer. This decision constitutes a final agency action, and is subject to judicial review under chapter 7 of title 5 of the United States Code.
Pt. 960, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 960—Application Information Required
To apply for a license to operate a remote sensing space system under 51 U.S.C. 60101,
et seq.
and this part, you must provide:
1. Material Facts: Fully accurate and responsive information to the following prompts under “Description of Applicant (Operator)” and “Description of System.” If a question is not applicable, write “N/A” and explain, if necessary.
2. Affirmation: Confirm by indicating below that there will be, at all times, measures in place to ensure positive control of any spacecraft in the system that have propulsion, if applicable to your system. Such measures include encryption of telemetry, command, and control communications or alternative measures consistent with industry best practice.
3. Your response to each prompt below constitutes a material fact. If any information you submit becomes inaccurate or incomplete before a license grant or denial, you must promptly contact the Secretary and submit correct and updated information as instructed by the Secretary.

# Part A: Description of Applicant (Operator)
1. General Applicant Information
a. Name of Applicant (entity or individual):
b. Location and address of Applicant:
c. Applicant contact information (for example, general corporate or university contact information):
d. Contact information for a specific individual to serve as the point of contact with Commerce:
e. Contact information for a specific individual to serve as the point of contact with Commerce for limited-operations directives, if different than main point of contact, in the event that the applicant will receive a license in Tier 2 or Tier 3:
f. Place of incorporation and, if incorporated outside the United States, an acknowledgement that you will operate your system within the United States and are therefore subject to the Secretary's jurisdiction under this part:
2. Ownership interests in the Applicant:
a. If there is majority U.S. ownership: Report any domestic entity or individual with an ownership interest in the Applicant totaling at least 50 percent:
b. If there is not majority U.S. ownership: Report all foreign entities or individuals whose ownership interest in the Applicant is at least 10 percent:
c. Report any ownership interest in the Applicant by any foreign entity or individual on the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security's Denied Persons List or Entity List or on the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Person List:
3. Identity of any subsidiaries and affiliates playing a role in the operation of the System, including a brief description of that role:

# Part B: Description of System
1. General System Information
a. Name of system:
b. Brief mission description:
2. Remote Sensing Instrument(s) parameters
a. Sensor type (Electro Optical, Multi-Spectral (MSI), Hyperspectral (HSI), Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR), Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR), Thermal Infrared (TIR), etc.):
b. Imaging/frame rate in Hertz; pulse repetition frequency for SAR or LIDAR:
c. Spatial resolution in meters (show calculation for the anticipated finest ground spatial distance (GSD), impulse response (IPR), or other relevant appropriate unit of resolution):
d. Spectral range in nanometers:
e. Collection volume in area per unit time per spacecraft: Provide an estimate of the maximum number of square kilometers of which the system can provide data/imagery per hour or per minute. If this is a fast-framing system, consider each recorded frame as a separate image collected:
f. Ability of the remote sensing instrument to slew, point, or digitally look off-axis from the x, y, and z axes of travel:
3. If any entity or individual other than the Applicant will own, control, or manage any
remote sensing instrument
in the System:
a. Identity and contact information of that entity or individual:
b. Relationship to Applicant (
i.e.,
operating under Applicant's instructions under a contract):
4. Spacecraft Upon Which the Remote Sensing Instrument(s) is (are) Carried
a. Description:
b. Estimated launch date(s) in calendar quarter:
c. Number of spacecraft (system total and maximum in-orbit at one time):
d. For each spacecraft, provide the following (or if an entire constellation will have substantially the same orbital characteristics, provide these values for the entire constellation and note whether or not all spacecraft will be evenly spaced)
i. Altitude range in kilometers:
ii. Inclination range in degrees:
iii. Period (time of a single orbit):
iv. Longitude of the ascending node:
v. Eccentricity:
vi. Argument of perigee:
vii. Propulsion (yes/no). (If “yes,” you must complete the affirmation in the beginning of this application):
viii. Ability of the spacecraft to slew, point, or digitally look off-axis from the x, y, and z axes of travel:
5. If any entity or individual other than the Applicant will own, control, or manage any
spacecraft
in the System
a. Identity and contact information of that entity or individual:
b. Whether that entity or individual is a U.S. person:
c. Relationship to Applicant (
i.e.,
operating under Applicant's instructions under a contract):
6. Ground Components
a. Location of Mission Control Center(s) with the ability to operate the system, including where commands are generated:
b. Location of other Ground Station components of the system, meaning facilities that communicate commands to the instrument or receive unenhanced data from it, and facilities that conduct data preprocessing:
c. If any entity or individual other than the Applicant will own, control, or manage any
mission control center(s)
with the ability to operate the System
i. Identity and contact information of that entity or individual:
ii. Relationship to Applicant (
i.e.,
operating under Applicant's instructions under a contract):
7. Information Applicable to Multi-Spectral Imaging (MSI) and/or Hyper-Spectral Imaging (HSI). Applicants must complete this section only if the response in Part B section 2.a. is “MSI” and/or “HSI.”
a. Number of spectral bands:
b. Individual spectral bandwidths (to include range of the upper and lower ends of each spectral band in nanometers):
8. Noise Equivalent Target (NET). Applicants must complete this section only if the response in Part B 2.c. is 5 meters or less, and the answer in Part B section 2.a. is neither “SAR” nor “LIDAR.” NET is the primary parameter used by the U.S. Government to describe an Electro Optical sensor's light sensitivity performance for a target at the same distance from the sensor as is specified as the minimum operating altitude in Part B section 4.d.i. If NET cannot be calculated, simply report the expected minimum detectable ground target radiance in watts:
9. Information Applicable to Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) if used for remote sensing. Responses should include the calculations used to derive the reported parameters. Applicants must complete this section only if the response in Part B section 2.a. is “LIDAR.”
a. Type (linear scanning or flash LIDAR (Geiger)):
b. Laser wavelength and pulse frequency:
c. Laser pulse width:
d. Spectral linewidth:
e. Z/Elevation accuracy in meters:
10. Information Applicable to Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR). Applicants must complete this section only if the response in Part B section 2.a. is “SAR.”
a. Azimuth resolution (ground plane):
b. Range resolution (ground plane):
c. SAR Signal-To-Noise Ratio (SNR):
d. Polarization Capability (
i.e.
dual polarization, quad polarization):
e. Complex data: Preservation of phase history data in standard format? (yes/no):
f. Center frequency:
g. Squint and Graze angles (include maximum and minimum), or other parameters that determine the size and shape of the area of regard of the sensor collection footprint at the ground:
11. Information Applicable to Thermal Infrared (TIR). TIR is defined as collecting in the spectral range of 3.0-5.0 and/or 8.0-12.0-micrometers. Applicants must complete this section only if the response in Part B section 2.a. is “TIR.”
a. Estimated relative thermometric accuracy in degrees Kelvin (± × degrees of actual):
b. Noise Equivalent Differential Temperature (NEDT), or if NEDT cannot be calculated, simply provide the expected temperature sensitivity in terms of minimum resolvable temperature difference in degrees
1
:
1
NEDT (noise equivalent differential temperature) is the key figure of merit which is used to qualify midwave (MWIR) and longwave (LWIR) infrared cameras. It is a signal-to-noise figure which represents
the temperature difference which would produce a signal equal to the camera's temporal noise.
It therefore represents approximately the minimum temperature difference which the camera can resolve. It is calculated by dividing the temporal noise by the response per degree (responsivity) and is usually expressed in units of milliKelvins. The value is a function of the camera's f/number, its integration time, and the temperature at which the measurement is made.

# Part C: Requests for Standard License Condition Waivers or Adjustments
Standard license conditions are listed at §§ 960.8. 960.9, and 960.10 for Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 systems, respectively. If requesting that any of these be waived or adjusted, please identify the specific standard license condition and explain why one of the following circumstances applies:
1. The requirement is not applicable due to the nature of the Applicant or the proposed system;
2. The Applicant will achieve the goal in a different way; or
3. There is other good cause to waive or adjust the condition.
Optional:
You may submit evidence of the availability of unenhanced data that is substantially the same as unenhanced data you propose to produce with your system. The Secretary will take any such evidence into account, in addition to other evidence of availability, when determining the appropriate tier for your system under § 960.6.
Pt. 960, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 960—Application Submission Instructions
A person may apply to operate a private remote sensing space system by submitting the information to the Secretary as described in appendix A of this part. This information can be submitted in any one of the following three ways:
1. Complete the fillable form at the Secretary's designated website, presently at
www.nesdis.noaa.gov/crsra.
2. Respond to the prompts in appendix A of this part and email your responses to
crsra@noaa.gov.
3. Respond to the prompts in appendix A of this part and mail your responses to: Commercial Remote Sensing Regulatory Affairs, 1335 East-West Highway SSMC-1/G-101, Silver Spring, MD 20910.
Pt. 960, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 960—License Template

# Part A: Determination and License Grant
1. The Secretary determines that [licensee name], as described in Part C, will comply with the requirements of the Act, the regulations at this part, and the conditions in this license.
2. Accordingly, the Secretary hereby grants [licensee name] (hereinafter “Licensee”), as described in Part C, this license to operate [system name] (hereinafter “the System”), as described in Part D, subject to the terms and conditions of this license. This license is valid until its term ends in accordance with § 960.15. The Licensee must request and receive approval for a license modification before taking any action that would contradict a material fact listed in Part C or D of this license.
3. The Secretary makes this determination, and grants this license, under the Secretary's authority in 51 U.S.C. 60123 and regulations at this part. This license does not authorize the System's use of spectrum for radio communications or the conduct of any non-remote sensing operations that are proposed to be undertaken by the Licensee. This license is not alienable and creates no property right in the Licensee.

# Part B: License Conditions
The Licensee (Operator) must, at all times:
[Depending upon the categorization of the application as Tier 1, 2, or 3, Commerce will insert the applicable standard license conditions, found at § 960.8, § 960.9, and/or § 960.10, and, for a Tier 3 license, any applicable temporary conditions resulting from the process in § 960.10, in this part of the license.]

# Part C: Description of Licensee
Every term below constitutes a material fact. You must request and receive approval of a license modification before taking any action that would contradict a material fact.
1. General Licensee Information
a. Name of Licensee (entity or individual):
b. Location and address of Licensee:
c. Licensee contact information (for example, general corporate or university contact information):
d. Contact information for a specific individual to serve as the point of contact with Commerce:
e. If Tier 2 or Tier 3, contact information for a specific individual to serve as the point of contact with Commerce for limited-operations directives, if different than main point of contact:
f. Place of incorporation and, if incorporated outside the United States, confirmation that the Licensee acknowledged as part of the application that the Licensee will operate its system within the United States and is therefore subject to the Secretary's jurisdiction under this part:
2. Identity of any subsidiaries and affiliates playing a role in the operation of the System, including a brief description of that role:

# Part D: Description of System
1. General System Information
a. Name of system:
b. Brief mission description:
2. Remote Sensing Instrument(s) parameters
a. Sensor type (Electro Optical, Multi-Spectral (MSI), Hyperspectral (HSI), Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR), Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR), Thermal Infrared (TIR), etc.):
b. Imaging/frame rate in Hertz; pulse repetition frequency for SAR; or number of looks for LIDAR:
c. Spatial resolution in meters:
d. Spectral range in nanometers:
e. Collection volume in area per unit time per spacecraft: An estimate of the maximum number of square kilometers of which the system can provide data/imagery per hour or per minute:
f. Ability of the remote sensing instrument to slew, point, or digitally look off-axis from the x, y, and z axes of travel:
3. If any entity or individual other than the Licensee will own, control, or manage any
remote sensing instrument
in the System:
a. Identity and contact information of that entity or individual:
b. Relationship to Licensee (
i.e.,
operating under Licensee's instructions under a contract):
4. Spacecraft Upon Which the Remote Sensing Instrument(s) is (are) Carried
a. Description:
b. Estimated launch date(s) in calendar quarter:
c. Number of spacecraft (system total and maximum in-orbit at one time):
d. For each spacecraft:
i. Altitude range in kilometers:
ii. Inclination range in degrees:
iii. Period (time of a single orbit):
iv. Longitude of the ascending node:
v. Eccentricity:
vi. Argument of perigee:
vii. Propulsion (yes/no):
viii. Ability of the spacecraft to slew, point, or digitally look off-axis from the x, y, and z axes of travel:
5. If any entity or individual other than the Licensee will own, control, or manage any
spacecraft
in the System
a. Identity and contact information of that entity or individual:
b. Whether that entity or individual is a U.S. person:
c. Relationship to Licensee (
i.e.,
operating under Licensee's instructions under a contract):
6. Ground Components
a. Location of Mission Control Center(s) with the ability to operate the system, including where commands are generated:
b. Location of other Ground Station components of the system, meaning facilities that communicate commands to the instrument or receive unenhanced data from it, and facilities that conduct data preprocessing:
c. If any entity or individual other than the Licensee will own, control, or manage any
mission control center(s)
with the ability to operate the System
i. Identity and contact information of that entity or individual:
ii. Relationship to Licensee (
i.e.,
operating under Licensee's instructions under a contract):
7. Information Applicable to Multi-Spectral Imaging (MSI) and/or Hyper-Spectral Imaging (HSI).
a. Number of spectral bands:
b. Individual spectral bandwidths (to include range of the upper and lower ends of each spectral band in nanometers):
Pt. 960, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 960—Memorandum of Understanding
Memorandum of Understanding Among the Departments of Commerce, State, Defense, and Interior, and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Concerning the Licensing and Operations of Private Remote Sensing Satellite Systems. April 25, 2017.

# I. Authorities and Roles
This Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is undertaken pursuant to the National and Commercial Space Programs Act, 51 U.S.C, 60101
et seq.
(“the Act”), 15 CFR part 960, National Security Presidential Directive 27 (NSPD-27), and Presidential Policy Directive-4 PPD-4) (“applicable directives”), or to any renewal of, or successor to, the Act and the applicable directives.
The principal Parties to this MOU are the Department of Commerce (DOC), Department of State (DOS), Department of Defense (DOD), and Department of the Interior (DOI). The Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) and the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) provide supporting advice pertaining to their areas of expertise. The Secretary of commerce is responsible for administering the licensing of private remote sensing satellite systems pursuant to the Act and applicable directives, and fulfills this responsibility through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). For remote sensing issues, the Act also grants the
authority to the Secretary of State to determine conditions necessary to meet international obligations and foreign policies, and to the Secretary of Defense to determine conditions necessary to meet the national security concerns raised by any remote sensing license application submitted pursuant to the Act and applicable directives, or to any amendment, renewal, or successor thereto. In addition, pursuant to this MOU, NOAA shall also consult with the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) for the views of the Intelligence Community (IC) and with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for the views of the DOD joint operational community.

# II. Purpose
The purpose of this MOU is to establish the interagency consultation process for adjudicating remote sensing licensing actions, and the consultation process for the interruption of normal commercial operations pursuant to the Act and applicable directives.

# III. Policy
In consultation with affected departments and agencies, including the DNI and JCS, the Secretary of Commerce will impose constraints on private remote sensing systems when necessary to meet the international obligations, foreign policy concerns, and/or national security concerns of the United States, and shall accord with the determinations of the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense, and with applicable laws and directives. Procedures for implementing this policy are established below, with each Party to this MOU separately establishing and documenting its internal timelines and decision authorities below the Cabinet level.

# IV. Procedures for Department/Agency Review

# A. Consultation During Review of Licensing Actions
Pursuant to the Act and applicable directives, or to any renewal thereof or successor thereto, the Secretary of Commerce shall review any application and make a determination within 120 days of receipt of such application. If final action has not occurred within such time, then the Secretary shall inform the applicant of any pending issues and of actions required to resolve them. The DOC will provide copies of requests for licensing actions to DOS, DOD, DOI, ODNl, and JCS within 3 working days. Each of these entities will inform DOC, through NOAA, of the office of primary responsibility, including primary and backup points of contact, for license action coordination.
(1) DOC will defer its decision on licensing requests until the other reviewing agencies have had a reasonable time to review them, as provided in this section. Within 10 working days of receipt, if DOS, DOD, DOI, ODNI, or JCS wants more information or time to review, then it shall notify, in writing, DOC/NOAA (a) of any additional information that it believes is necessary to properly evaluate the licensing action, or (b) of the additional time, not to exceed 10 working days, necessary to complete the review. This notification shall state the specific reasons why the additional information is sought, or why more time is needed.
(2) After receiving a complete license package, including any additional information that was requested as described above, DOS, DOD, DOI, ODNI and JCS will provide their final recommendations on the license package within 30 days, or otherwise may request from DOC/NOAA additional time necessary to provide a recommendation. If DOS determines that imposition of conditions on the actions being reviewed is necessary to meet the international obligations and foreign policies of the United States, or DOD determines that imposition of conditions are necessary to address the national security concerns of the United States, the MOU Party identifying the concern will promptly notify, in writing, DOC/NOAA and those departments and agencies responsible for the management of operational land imaging space capabilities of the United States. Such notification shall: (a) Describe the specific national security interests, or the specific international obligations or foreign policies at risk, if the applicant's system is approved as proposed; (b) set forth the specific basis for the conclusion that operation of the applicant's system as proposed will not preserve the identified national security interests or the identified international obligations or foreign policies; and (c) either specify the additional conditions that will be necessary to preserve the relevant U.S. interests, or set forth in detail why denial is required to preserve such interests. All notifications under this paragraph must be in writing.

# B. Interagency Dispute Resolution for Licensing Actions
(1) Committees. The following committees are established, described here from the lowest level to the highest, to adjudicate disagreements concerning proposed commercial remote sensing system licenses.
(a) Operating Committee on Private Remote Sensing Space Systems. An Operating Committee on Private Remote Sensing Space Systems (RSOC) is established. The Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and NOAA Administrator shall appoint its Chair. Its other principal members shall be representatives of DOS, DOD, and DOI, or their subordinate agencies, who along with their subject matter experts, can
speak on behalf of their department or agency. Representatives of the ODNI and the JCS shall participate as supporting members to provide independent advice pertaining to their areas of expertise. The RSOC may invite representatives of United States Government departments or agencies that are not normally represented in the RSOC to participate in the activities of that Committee when matters of interest to such departments or agencies are under consideration.
(b) Advisory Committee on Private Remote Sensing Space Systems. An Advisory Committee on Private Remote Sensing Space Systems (ACPRS) is established and shall have as its principal members the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Environmental Observation and Prediction, who shall be Chair of the Committee, and Assistant Secretary representatives of DOS, DOD, and DOI. Appointed representatives of ODNI and JCS shall participate as supporting members to provide independent advice pertaining to their areas of expertise. Regardless of the department or agency representative's rank and position, such representative shall speak at the ACPRS on behalf of his/her department or agency. The ACPRS may invite Assistant Secretary level representation of United States Government departments or agencies that are not represented in the ACPRS to participate in the activities of that Committee when matters of interest to such departments or agencies are under consideration.
(c) Review Board for Private Remote Sensing Space Systems. The Board shall have, as its principal members, the Under Secretary of commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, who shall be Chair of the Board, and Under Secretary or equivalent representatives of DOS, DOD, and DOI. The Director of National Intelligence and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall be represented at an appropriate level as supporting members to provide independent advice pertaining to their areas of expertise. The Board may invite the representatives of United States Government departments or agencies that are not represented on the Board, to participate in the activities of the Board when matters of interest to such departments or agencies are under consideration.
(2) Resolution Procedures.
(a) If, following the various intra-departmental review processes, the principal members of the RSOC do not agree on approving a license or on necessary conditions that would allow for its approval, then the RSOC shall meet to review the license application. The RSOC shall work to resolve differences in the recommendations with the goal of approving licenses with the least restrictive conditions needed to meet the international obligations, foreign policies, or national security concerns of the United States. If the issues cannot be resolved, then the Chair of the RSOC shall prepare a proposed license that reflects the Committee's views as closely as possible, and provide it to the principal members of the RSOC for approval. The proposed license prepared by the RSOC chair shall contain the conditions determined necessary by DOS or DOD. Principal members have 5 working days to object to the proposed license and seek a decision at a higher level. In the absence of a timely escalation, the license proposed by the RSOC Chair will be issued.
(b) If any of the principal Parties disagrees with the proposed license provided by the RSOC Chair, they may escalate the matter to the ACPRS for resolution, Principal Parties must escalate the matter within 5 working days of such a decision. Escalations must be in writing from the principal ACPRS member, and must cite the specific national security, foreign policy, or international obligation concern. Upon receipt of a request to escalate, DOC will suspend any further action on the license action until ACPRS resolution. The ACPRS shall meet to review all departments' information and recommendations, and shall work to resolve interagency disagreements. Following this meeting, the Chair of the ACPRS shall, within 11 working days from the date of receiving notice of escalation, provide the reviewing departments a proposed license that contains the conditions determined by DOS or DOD. Within 5 working days of receipt of the proposed license, an ACPRS principal member may object to the prepared license and seek to escalate the matter to the Review Board. In the absence of an escalation within 5 working days, the license prepared by the ACPRS Chair will be issued.
(c) If any of the principal Parties disagrees with the license prepared by the ACPRS Chair, it may escalate the matter to the Review Board for resolution. Principal Parties must escalate the matter within 5 working days of such a decision. Escalations must be in writing from the principal Review Board member, and must cite the specific national security, foreign policy, or international obligation concern. Upon receipt of a request to escalate, DOC will suspend any further action on the license action until Review Board resolution. The Review Board shall meet to review information and recommendations that are provided by the ACPRS, and such other private remote sensing matters as appropriate. The Chair of the Board shall provide reviewing departments and agencies a proposed license within 11 working days from the date of receiving notice of escalation. The proposed license prepared by the Review Board chair shall contain the conditions determined necessary by DOS or DOD. If no principal Parties object to the proposed license within 5 working days, it will be issued.
(d) If, within 5 working days of receipt of the draft license, a principal Party disagrees with any conditions imposed on the license, that Party's Secretary will promptly notify the Secretary of Commerce and the other principal Parties in writing of such disagreement and the reasons therefor, and a copy will be provided to the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology.
(e) Upon notification of such a disagreement, DOC will suspend further action on the license that would be inconsistent with the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Defense determination. If the Secretary of Commerce believes the limits defined by another Secretary are inappropriate, then the Secretary of Commerce or Deputy Secretary shall consult with his or her counterpart in the relevant department within 10 working days regarding unresolved issues. If the relevant Secretaries are unable to resolve any issues, the Secretary of Commerce will notify the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, who, in coordination with the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, will seek to achieve consensus among departments and agencies, or failing that, by referral to the President. All efforts will be taken to resolve the dispute within 3 weeks of its submission to the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology.

# C. Interagency Dispute Resolution Concerning Other Commercial Remote Sensing Matters
Nothing in this MOU precludes any Party to this MOU from addressing through other appropriate channels, consistent with the Act and applicable directives, any matter regarding commercial remote sensing unrelated to (1) adjudicating remote sensing licensing actions, or (2) the interruption of normal commercial operations. Such matters may be raised using standard coordination processes, including by referral to the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, who, in coordination with the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, will seek to achieve consensus among the departments and agencies, or failing that, by referral to the President, when appropriate.

# D. Consultation During Review of Interruption of Normal Commercial Operations
(1) This section establishes the process to limit the licensee's data collection and/or distribution where necessary to meet international obligations or foreign policy interests, as determined by the Secretary of State, or during periods of increased concern for national security, as determined by the Secretary of Defense in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. DOC will provide DOS, DOD, ODNI, and JCS copies of licensee correspondence and documents that describe how the licensee will comply with such interruptions of its commercial operations.
(2) Conditions should be imposed for the smallest area and for the shortest period necessary to protect the international obligations and foreign policies or national security concerns at issue. Alternatives to prohibitions on collection and/or distribution shall be considered as “modified operations,” such as delaying or restricting the transmission or distribution of data, restricting disseminated data quality, restricting the field of view of the system, obfuscation, encryption of the data, or other means to control the use of the data, provided the licensee has provisions to implement such measures.
(3) Except where urgency precludes it, DOS, DOD, DOC, ODNI and JCS will consult to attempt to come to an agreement concerning appropriate conditions to be imposed on the licensee in accordance with determinations made by DOS or DOD. Consultations shall be managed so that, in the event an agreement cannot be reached at the staff level, sufficient time will remain to allow the Secretary of Commerce to consult personally with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, or the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as appropriate, prior to the issuance of a determination by the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of Defense, in accordance with (4) below. That function shall not be delegated below the Secretary or acting Secretary.
(4) After such consultations, or when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Defense, specifically determines that urgency precludes consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of State shall determine the conditions necessary to meet international obligations and foreign policy concerns, and the Secretary of Defense shall determine the conditions necessary to meet national security concerns. This function shall not be delegated below the Secretary or acting Secretary.
(5) The Secretary of State or the Secretary of Defense will provide to the Secretary of Commerce a determination regarding the conditions required to be imposed on the licensees. The determination will describe the international obligations, specific foreign policy, or national security interest at risk. Upon receipt of the determination, DOC shall immediately notify the licensees of the imposition of limiting conditions on commercial operations. Copies of the determination and any implementing DOC action will be provided promptly to the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and
the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology.
(6) If the Secretary of Commerce believes the conditions determined by another Secretary are inappropriate, he or she will, simultaneous with notification to, and imposition of such conditions on, the licensee, so notify the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Defense, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology. The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, in coordination with the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, may initiate as soon as possible a Principals-level consultative process to achieve a consensus or, failing that, refer the matter the President for decision. All efforts will be taken to resolve the disagreement within 7 working days of its submission to the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology.

# E. Coordination Before Release of Information Provided or Generated by Other United States Government Departments or Agencies
Before releasing any information provided or generated by another department or agency to a licensee or potential licensee, to the public, or to an administrative law judge, the agency proposing the release must consult with the agency that provided or generated the information. The purpose of such consultations will be to review the propriety of any proposed release of information that may be privileged or restricted because it is classified, pre-decisional, deliberative, proprietary, or protected for other reasons. No information shall be released without the approval of the department or agency that provided or generated it unless required by law.

# F. No Legal Rights
No legal rights or remedies, or legally enforceable causes of action, are created or intended to be created by this MOU.
Pt. 970

# PART 970—DEEP SEABED MINING REGULATIONS FOR EXPLORATION LICENSES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
970.100
Purpose.
970.101
Definitions.
970.102
Nature of licenses.
970.103
Prohibited activities and restrictions.

# Subpart B—Applications
970.200
General.

# Contents
970.201
Statement of financial resources.
970.202
Statement of technological experience and capabilities.
970.203
Exploration plan.
970.204
Environmental and use conflict analysis.
970.205
Vessel safety.
970.206
Statement of ownership.
970.207
Antitrust information.
970.208
Fee.

# Procedures
970.209
Substantial compliance with application requirements.
970.210
Reasonable time for full compliance.
970.211
Consultation and cooperation with Federal agencies.
970.212
Public notice, hearing and comment.
970.213
Amendment to an application.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Applications Based on Exploration Commenced Before June 28, 1980; Resolution of Conflicts Among Overlapping Applications; Applications by New Entrants
970.300
Purposes and definitions.
970.301
Requirements for applications based on pre-enactment exploration.
970.302
Procedures and criteria for resolving conflicts.
970.303
Procedures for new entrants.
970.304
Action on portions of applications or amendments not in conflict.

# Subpart D—Certification of Applications
970.400
General.
970.401
Financial responsibility.
970.402
Technological capability.
970.403
Previous license and permit obligations.
970.404
Adequate exploration plan.
970.405
Appropriate exploration site size and location.
970.406
Fee payment.
970.407
Denial of certification.
970.408
Notice of certification.

# Subpart E—Issuance/Transfer/Terms, Conditions and Restrictions
970.500
General.

# Issuance/Transfer; Modification/Revision; Suspension/Revocation
970.501
Proposal to issue or transfer and of terms, conditions and restrictions.
970.502
Consultation and cooperation with Federal agencies.
970.503
Freedom of the high seas.
970.504
International obligations of the United States.
970.505
Breach of international peace and security involving armed conflict.
970.506
Environmental effects.
970.507
Safety at sea.
970.508
Denial of issuance or transfer.
970.509
Notice of issuance or transfer.
970.510
Objections to terms, conditions and restrictions.
970.511
Suspension or modification of activities; suspension or revocation of licenses.
970.512
Modification of terms, conditions and restrictions.
970.513
Revision of a license.
970.514
Scale requiring application procedures.
970.515
Duration of a license.
970.516
Approval of license transfers.

# Terms, Conditions, and Restrictions
970.517
Diligence requirements.
970.518
Environmental protection requirements.
970.519
Resource conservation requirements.
970.520
Freedom of the high seas requirements.
970.521
Safety at sea requirements.
970.522
Monitoring requirements.
970.523
Special terms, conditions, and restrictions.
970.524
Other Federal requirements.

# Subpart F—Resource Development Concepts
970.600
General.
970.601
Logical mining unit.
970.602
Diligent exploration.
970.603
Conservation of resources.

# Subpart G—Environmental Effects
970.700
General.
970.701
Significant adverse environmental effects.
970.702
Monitoring and mitigation of environmental effects.

# Subpart H—Safety of Life and Property at Sea
970.800
General.
970.801
Criteria for safety of life and property at sea.

# Subpart I—Miscellaneous
970.900
Other applicable regulations.
Subparts J-W [Reserved]

# Subpart X—Pre-enactment Exploration
970.2401
Definitions.
970.2402
Notice of pre-enactment exploration.

# Subpart Y—Pre-license Exploration
970.2501
Notice of pre-license exploration voyages.
970.2502
Post voyage report.
970.2503
Suspension of exploration activities.

# Subpart Z—Miscellaneous
970.2601
Additional information.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
46 FR 45896, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 970.100
Purpose.
(a)
General.
The purpose of this part is to implement those responsibilities and authorities of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), pursuant to Public Law 96-283, the Deep Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act (the Act), to issue to eligible United States citizens licenses for the exploration for deep seabed hard minerals.
(b)
Purposes of the Act.
In preparing these regulations NOAA has been mindful of the purposes of the Act, as set forth in section 2(b) thereof. These include:
(1) Encouraging the successful conclusion of a comprehensive Law of the Sea Treaty, which will give legal definition to the principle that the hard mineral resources of the deep seabed are the common heritage of mankind and which will assure, among other things, nondiscriminatory access to such resources for all nations;
(2) Establishing, pending the ratification by, and entering into force with respect to, the United States of such a treaty, an interim program to regulate the exploration for and commercial recovery of hard mineral resources of the deep seabed by United States citizens;
(3) Accelerating the program of environmental assessment of exploration for and commercial recovery of hard mineral resources of the deep seabed and assuring that such exploration and recovery activities are conducted in a manner which will encourage the conservation of such resources, protect the quality of the environment, and promote the safety of life and property at sea;
(4) Encouraging the continued development of technology necessary to recover the hard mineral resources of the deep seabed; and
(5) Pending the ratification by, and entry into force with respect to, the United States of a Law of the Sea Treaty, providing for the establishment of an international revenue-sharing fund the proceeds of which will be used for sharing with the international community pursuant to such treaty.
(c)
Regulatory approach.
(1) These regulations incorporate NOAA's recognition that the deep seabed mining industry is still evolving and that more information must be developed to form the basis for future decisions by industry and by NOAA in its implementation of the Act. They also recognize the need for flexibility in order to promote the development of deep seabed mining technology, and the usefulness of allowing initiative by miners to develop mining techniques and systems in a manner compatible with the requirements of the Act and regulations. In this regard, the regulations reflect an approach, pursuant to the Act, whereby their provisions ultimately will be addressed and evaluated on the basis of exploration plans submitted by applicants.
(2) In addition, these regulations reflect NOAA's recognition that the difference in scale and effects between exploration for and commercial recovery of hard mineral resources normally requires that they be distinguished and addressed separately. This distinction is also based upon the evolutionary stage of the seabed mining industry referenced above. Thus, NOAA will issue separate regulations pertaining to commercial recovery, in part 971 of this chapter.
[46 FR 45896, Sept. 15, 1981; 47 FR 5966, Feb. 9, 1982]
§ 970.101
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term:
(a)
Act
means the Deep Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act (Pub. L. 96-283; 94 Stat. 553; 30 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.
);
(b)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or a designee;
(c)
Applicant
means an applicant for an exploration license pursuant to the Act and this part;
(d)
Affiliate
means any person:
(1) In which the applicant or licensee owns or controls more than 5% interest;
(2) Which owns or controls more than 5% interest in the applicant or licensee; or
(3) Which is under common ownership or control with the applicant or licensee.
(e)
Commercial recovery
means:
(1) Any activity engaged in at sea to recover any hard mineral resource at a substantial rate for the primary purpose of marketing or commercially using such resource to earn a net profit, whether or not such net profit is actually earned;
(2) If such recovered hard mineral resource will be processed at sea, such processing; and
(3) If the waste of such activity to recover any hard mineral resource, or of such processing at sea, will be disposed of at sea, such disposal;
(f)
Continental Shelf
means:
(1) The seabed and subsoil of the submarine areas adjacent to the coast, but outside the area of the territorial sea, to a depth of 200 meters or, beyond that limit, to where the depth of the superjacent waters admits of the exploitation of the natural resources of such submarine area; and
(2) The seabed and subsoil of similar submarine areas adjacent to the coast of islands;
(g)
Controlling interest,
for purposes of paragraph (t)(3) of this section, means a direct or indirect legal or beneficial interest in or influence over another person arising through ownership of capital stock, interlocking directorates or officers, contractual relations, or other similar means, which substantially affect the independent business behavior of such person;
(h)
Deep seabed
means the seabed, and the subsoil thereof to a depth of ten meters, lying seaward of and outside:
(1) The Continental Shelf of any nation; and
(2) Any area of national resource jurisdiction of any foreign nation, if such area extends beyond the Continental
Shelf of such nation and such jurisdiction is recognized by the United States;
(i)
Exploration
means:
(1) Any at-sea observation and evaluation activity which has, as its objective, the establishment and documentation of:
(i) The nature, shape, concentration, location, and tenor of a hard mineral resource; and
(ii) The environmental, technical, and other appropriate factors which must be taken into account to achieve commercial recovery; and
(2) The taking from the deep seabed of such quantities of any hard mineral resource as are necessary for the design, fabrication and testing of equipment which is intended to be used in the commercial recovery and processing of such resource;
(j)
Hard mineral resource
means any deposit or accretion on, or just below, the surface of the deep seabed of nodules which include one or more minerals, at least one of which contains manganese, nickel, cobalt, or copper;
(k)
International agreement
means a comprehensive agreement concluded through negotiations at the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, relating to (among other matters) the exploration for and commercial recovery of hard mineral resources and the establishment of an international regime for the regulation thereof;
(l)
Licensee
means the holder of a license issued under this part to engage in exploration;
(m)
New entrant
means any applicant, with respect to:
(1) Any application which has not been accorded a pre-enactment explorer priority of right under § 970.301; or
(2) Any amendment which has not been accorded a pre-enactment explorer priority of right under § 970.302.
(n)
NOAA
means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
(o)
Permittee
means the holder of permit issued under NOAA regulations to engage in commercial recovery;
(p)
Person
means any United States citizen, any individual, and any corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, or other entity organized or existing under the laws of any nation;
(q)
Pre-enactment explorer
means a person who was engaged in exploration prior to the date of enactment of the Act (June 28, 1980);
(r)
Reciprocating state
means any foreign nation designated as such by the Administrator under section 118 of the Act;
(s)
United States
means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, and any other Commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States; and
(t)
United States citizen
means
(1) Any individual who is a citizen of the United States;
(2) Any corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, or other entity organized or existing under the laws of any of the United States; and
(3) Any corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, or other entity (whether organized or existing under the laws of any of the United States or a foreign nation) if the controlling interest in such entity is held by an individual or entity described in paragraph (t)(1) or (t)(2) of this section.
[46 FR 45896, Sept. 15, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 5967, Feb. 9, 1982]
§ 970.102
Nature of licenses.
(a) A license issued under this part will authorize the holder thereof to engage in exploration within a specific portion of the sea floor consistent with the provisions of the Act, this part, and the specific terms, conditions and restrictions applied to the license by the Administrator.
(b) Any license issued under this part will be exclusive with respect to the holder thereof as against any other United States citizen or any citizen, national or governmental agency of, or any legal entity organized or existing under the laws of, any reciprocating state.
(c) A valid existing license will entitle the holder, if otherwise eligible under the provisions of the Act and implementing regulations, to a permit for commercial recovery from an area selected within the same area of the sea floor. Such a permit will recognize the
right of the holder to recover hard mineral resources, and to own, transport, use, and sell hard mineral resources recovered, under the permit and in accordance with the requirements of the Act.
§ 970.103
Prohibited activities and restrictions.
(a)
Prohibited activities and exceptions.
(1) Except as authorized under subpart C of this part, no United States citizen may engage in any exploration or commercial recovery unless authorized to do so under:
(i) A license or a permit issued pursuant to the Act and implementing regulations;
(ii) A license, permit, or equivalent authorization issued by a reciprocating state; or
(iii) An international agreement which is in force with respect to the United States.
(2) The prohibitions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section will not apply to any of the following activities:
(i) Scientific research, including that concerning hard mineral resources;
(ii) Mapping, or the taking of any geophysical, geochemical, oceanographic, or atmospheric measurements or random bottom samplings of the deep seabed, if such taking does not significantly alter the surface or subsurface of the deep seabed or significantly affect the environment;
(iii) The design, construction, or testing of equipment and facilities which will or may be used for exploration or commercial recovery, if such design, construction or testing is conducted on shore, or does not involve the recovery of any but incidental hard mineral resources;
(iv) The furnishing of machinery, products, supplies, services, or materials for any exploration or commercial recovery conducted under a license or permit issued under the Act and implementing regulations, a license or permit or equivalent authorization issued by a reciprocating state, or under an international agreement; and
(v) Activities, other than exploration or commercial recovery activities, of the Federal Government.
(3) No United States citizen may interfere or participate in interference with any activity conducted by any licensee or permittee which is authorized to be undertaken under a license or permit issued by the Administrator to a licensee or permittee under the Act or with any activity conducted by the holder of, and authorized to be undertaken under, a license or permit or equivalent authorization issued by a reciprocating state for the exploration or commercial recovery of hard mineral resources. For purposes of this section, interference includes physical interference with activities authorized by the Act, this part, and a license issued pursuant thereto; the filing of specious claims in the United States or any other nation; and any other activity designed to harass deep seabed mining activities authorized by law. Interference does not include the exercise of any rights granted to United States citizens by the Constitution of the United States, any Federal or State law, treaty, or agreement or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto.
(4) United States citizens must exercise their rights on the high seas with reasonable regard for the interests of other states in their exercise of the freedoms of the high seas.
(b)
Restrictions on issuance of licenses or permits.
The Administrator will not issue:
(1) Any license or permit after the date on which an international agreement is ratified by and enters into force with respect to the United States, except to the extent that issuance of such license or permit is not inconsistent with such agreement;
(2) Any license or permit the exploration plan or recovery plan of which, submitted pursuant to the Act and implementing regulations, would apply to an area to which applies, or would conflict with:
(i) Any exploration plan or recovery plan submitted with any pending application to which priority of right for issuance applies under this part;
(ii) Any exploration plan or recovery plan associated with any existing license or permit; or
(iii) Any equivalent authorization which has been issued, or for which formal notice of application has been submitted, by a reciprocating state prior
to the filing date of any relevant application for licenses or permits pursuant to the Act and implementing regulations;
(3) A permit authorizing commercial recovery within any area of the deep seabed in which exploration is authorized under a valid existing license if such permit is issued to a person other than the licensee for such area;
(4) Any exploration license before July 1, 1981, or any permit which authorizes commercial recovery to commence before January 1, 1988;
(5) Any license or permit the exploration plan or recovery plan for which applies to any area of the deep seabed if, within the 3-year period before the date of application for such license or permit:
(i) The applicant therefor surrendered or relinquished such area under an exploration plan or recovery plan associated with a previous license or permit issued to such applicant; or
(ii) A license or permit previously issued to the applicant had an exploration plan or recovery plan which applied to such area and such license or permit was revoked under section 106 of the Act; or
(6) A license or permit, or approve the transfer of a license or permit, except to a United States citizen.

# Subpart B—Applications

# Source:
46 FR 45898, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 970.200
General.
(a)
Who may apply; how.
Any United States citizen may apply to the Administrator for issuance or transfer of an exploration license. Applications must be submitted in the form and manner prescribed in this subpart.
(b)
Place, form and copies.
Applications for the issuance or transfer of exploration licenses must be submitted in writing, verified and signed by an authorized officer or other authorized representative of the applicant, in 30 copies, to the following address: Office of Ocean Minerals and Energy, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, suite 410, Page 1 Building, 2001 Wisconsin Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20235. The Administrator may waive, in whole or in part, at his discretion, the requirement that 30 copies of an application be filed with NOAA.
(c)
Use of application information.
The contents of an application, as set forth below, must provide NOAA with the information necessary to make determinations required by the Act and this part pertaining to the issuance or transfer of an exploration license. Thus, each portion of the application should identify the requirement in this part to which it responds. In addition, the information will be used by NOAA in its function under the Act of consultation and cooperation with other Federal agencies or departments in relation to their programs and authorities, in order to reduce the number of separate actions required to satisfy Federal agencies' responsibilities.
(d)
Pre-application consultation.
To assist in the development of adequate applications and assure that applicants understand how to respond to the provisions of this subpart, NOAA will be available for pre-application consultations with potential applicants. This includes consultation on the procedures in subpart C. In appropriate circumstances, NOAA will provide written confirmation to the applicant of any oral guidance resulting from such consultations.
(e)
Priority of right.
(1) Priority of right for issuance of licenses to pre-enactment explorers will be established pursuant to subpart C of this part.
(2) Priority of right for issuance of licenses to new entrants will be established on the basis of the chronological order in which license applications, which are in substantial compliance with the requirements established under this subpart, pursuant to § 970.209, are filed with the Administrator.
(3) Applications must be received by the Office of Ocean Minerals and Energy on behalf of the Administrator before a priority can be established.
(4) Upon (i) a determination that:
(A) An application is not in substantial compliance in accordance with § 970.209 or subpart C, as applicable;
(B) An application has not been brought into substantial compliance in
accordance with § 970.210 or subpart C, as applicable;
(C) A license has been relinquished or surrendered in accordance with § 970.903; or
(ii) A decision to:
(A) Deny certification of a license pursuant to § 970.407; or
(B) Deny issuance of a license pursuant to § 970.508,
and after the exhaustion of any administrative or judicial review of such determination or decision, the priority of right for issuance of a license will lapse.
(f)
Request for confidential treatment of information.
If an applicant wishes to have any information in his application treated as confidential, he must so indicate pursuant to 15 CFR 971.802.
[46 FR 45898, Sept. 15, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 5968, Feb. 9, 1982; 54 FR 547, Jan. 6, 1989]

# Contents
§ 970.201
Statement of financial resources.
(a)
General.
The application must contain information sufficient to demonstrate to the Administrator the financial resources of the applicant to carry out, in accordance with this part, the exploration program set forth in the applicant's exploration plan. The information must show that the applicant is reasonably capable of committing or raising sufficient resources to cover the estimated costs of the exploration program. The information must be sufficient for the Administrator to make a determination on the applicant's financial responsibility pursuant to § 970.401.
(b)
Contents.
In particular, the information on financial resources must include:
(1) A description of how the applicant intends to finance the exploration program;
(2) The estimated cost of the exploration program;
(3) With respect to the applicant and those entities upon which the applicant will rely to finance his exploration activities, the most recent audited financial statement (for publicly-held companies, the most recent annual report and Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission will suffice in this regard); and
(4) The credit rating and bond rating of the applicant, and such financing entities, to the extent they are relevant.
§ 970.202
Statement of technological experience and capabilities.
(a)
General.
The application must contain information sufficient to demonstrate to the Administrator the technological capability of the applicant to carry out, in accordance with the regulations contained in this part, the exploration program set out in the applicant's exploration plan. It must contain sufficient information for the Administrator to make a determination on the applicant's technological capability pursuant to § 970.402.
(b)
Contents.
In particular, the information submitted pursuant to this section must demonstrate knowledge and skills which the applicant either possesses or to which he can demonstrate access. The information must include:
(1) A description of the exploration equipment to be used by the applicant in carrying out the exploration program;
(2) A description of the environmental monitoring equipment to be used by the applicant in monitoring the environmental effects of the exploration program; and
(3) The experience on which the applicant will rely in using this or similar equipment.
§ 970.203
Exploration plan.
(a)
General.
Each application must include an exploration plan which describes the applicant's projected exploration activities during the period to be covered by the proposed license. Generally, the exploration plan must demonstrate to a reasonable extent that the applicant's efforts, by the end of the 10-year license period, will likely lead to the ability to apply for and obtain a permit for commercial recovery. In particular, the plan must include sufficient information for the Administrator, pursuant to this part, to make the necessary determinations pertaining to the certification and issuance or transfer of a license and to the development and enforcement of
the terms, conditions and restrictions for a license.
(b)
Contents.
The exploration plan must contain the following information. In presenting this information, the plan should incorporate the applicant's proposed individual approach, including a general description of how projected participation by other entities will relate to the following elements, if appropriate. The plan must present:
(1) The activities proposed to be carried out during the period of the license;
(2) A description of the area to be explored, including its delineation according to § 970.601;
(3) The intended exploration schedule which must be responsive to the diligence requirements in § 970.602. Taking into account that different applicants may have different concepts and chronologies with respect to the types of activities described, the schedule should include an approximate projection for the exploration activities planned. Although the details in each schedule may vary to reflect the applicant's particular approach, it should address in some respect approximately when each of the following types of activities is projected to occur.
(i) Conducting survey cruises to determine the location and abundance of nodules as well as the sea floor configuration, ocean currents and other physical characteristics of potential commercial recovery sites;
(ii) Assaying nodules to determine their metal contents;
(iii) Designing and testing system components onshore and at sea;
(iv) Designing and testing mining systems which simulate commercial recovery;
(v) Designing and testing processing systems to prove concepts and designing and testing systems which simulate commercial processing;
(vi) Evaluating the continued feasibility of commercial scale operations based on technical, economic, legal, political and environmental considerations; and
(vii) Applying for a commercial recovery permit and, to the extent known, other permits needed to construct and operate commercial scale facilities (if application for such permits is planned prior to obtaining a commercial recovery permit);
(4) A description of the methods to be used to determine the location, abundance, and quality (
i.e.
, assay) of nodules, and to measure physical conditions in the area which will affect nodule recovery system design and operations (e.g., seafloor topography, seafloor geotechnic properties, and currents);
(5) A general description of the developing recovery and processing technology related to the proposed license, and of any planned or ongoing testing and evaluation of such technology. To the extent possible at the time of application, this description should address such factors as nodule collection technique, seafloor sediment rejection subsystem, mineship nodule separation scheme, pumping method, anticipated equipment test areas, and details on the testing plan;
(6) An estimated schedule of expenditures, which must be responsive to the diligence requirements as discussed in § 970.602;
(7) Measures to protect the environment and to monitor the effectiveness of environmental safeguards and monitoring systems for commercial recovery. These measures must take into account the provisions in §§ 970.506, 970.518, 970.522 and subpart G of this part; and
(8) A description of any relevant activity that the applicant has completed prior to the submission of the application.
§ 970.204
Environmental and use conflict analysis.
(a)
Environmental information.
To enable NOAA to implement better its responsibility under section 109(d) of the Act to develop an environmental impact statement (EIS) on the issuance of an exploration license, the application must include information for use in preparing NOAA's EIS on the environmental impacts of the activities proposed by the applicant. The applicant must present physical, chemical and biological information for the exploration area. This information should include relevant environmental information, if any, obtained during past
exploration activities, but need not duplicate information obtained during NOAA's DOMES Project. Planned activities in the area, including the testing of integrated mining systems which simulate commercial recovery, also must be described. NOAA will need information with the application on location and boundaries of the proposed exploration area, and plans for delineation of features of the exploration area including baseline data or plans for acquiring them. The applicant may at his option delay submission of baseline and equipment data and system test plans. However, applicants so electing should plan to submit this latter information at least one year prior to the initial test, to allow time for the supplement to the site-specific EIS, if one is required, to be prepared by NOAA, circulated, reviewed and filed with EPA. The submission of this information with the application is strongly encouraged, however, to minimize the possibility that a supplement will be required. If such latter information is submitted subsequent to the original application such tests may not be undertaken in the absence of concurrence by NOAA (which, if applicable, will be required in a term, condition, or restriction in the license). NOAA has developed a technical guidance document which will provide assistance for the agency and the applicant, in consultation, to identify the details on information needed in each case. NOAA may refer to such information for purposes of other determinations under the Act as well. NOAA also will seek to facilitate other Federal and, as necessary, state decisions on exploration activities by functioning as lead agency for the EIS on the application and related actions by other agencies, including those pertaining to any onshore impacts which may result from the proposed exploration activities.
(b)
Use conflict information.
To assist the Administrator in making determinations relating to potential use conflicts between the proposed exploration and other activities in the exploration area, pursuant to §§ 970.503, 970.505, and 970.520, the application must include information known to the applicant with respect to such other activities.
§ 970.205
Vessel safety.
In order to provide a basis for the necessary determinations with respect to the safety of life and property at sea, pursuant to §§ 970.507, 970.521 and subpart H of this part, the application must contain the following information, except for those vessels under 300 gross tons which are engaged in oceanographic research if they are used in exploration.
(a)
U.S. flag vessel.
The application must contain a demonstration or affirmation that any United States flag vessel utilized in exploration activities will possess a current valid Coast Guard Certificate of Inspection (COI). To the extent that the applicant knows which United States flag vessel he will be using, the application must include a copy of the COI.
(b)
Foreign flag vessel.
The application must also contain information on any foreign flag vessels to be used in exploration activities, which responds to the following requirements. To the extent that the applicant knows which foreign flag vessel he will be using, the application must include evidence of the following:
(1) That any foreign flag vessel whose flag state is party to the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 (SOLAS 74) possesses current valid SOLAS 74 certificates;
(2) That any foreign flag vessel whose flag state is not party to SOLAS 74 but is party to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1960 (SOLAS 60) possesses current valid SOLAS 60 certificates; and
(3) That any foreign flag vessel whose flag state is not a party to either SOLAS 74 or SOLAS 60 meets all applicable structural and safety requirements contained in the published rules of a member of the International Association of Classification Societies (IACS).
(c)
Supplemental certificates.
If the applicant does not know at the time of submitting an application which vessels he will be using, he must submit the applicable certification for each vessel before the cruise on which it will be used.
§ 970.206
Statement of ownership.
The application must include sufficient information to demonstrate that the applicant is a United States citizen, as required by § 970.103(b)(6), and as defined in § 970.101(t). In particular, the application must include:
(a) Name, address, and telephone number of the United States citizen responsible for exploration operations to whom notices and orders are to be delivered; and
(b) A description of the citizen or citizens engaging in such exploration, including:
(1) Whether the citizen is a natural person, partnership, corporation, joint venture, or other form of association;
(2) The state of incorporation or state in which the partnership or other business entity is registered;
(3) The name of registered agent or equivalent representative and places of business;
(4) Certification of essential and nonproprietary provisions in articles of incorporation, charter or articles of association; and
(5) The name of each member of the association, partnership, or joint venture, including information about the participation of each partner and joint venturer and/or ownership of stock.
§ 970.207
Antitrust information.
(a)
General.
Section 103(d) of the Act specifically provides for antitrust review of applications by the Attorney General of the United States and the Federal Trade Commission.
(b)
Contents.
In order to provide information for this antitrust review, the application must contain the following:
(1) A copy of each agreement between any parties to any joint venture which is applying for a license, provided that said agreement relates to deep seabed hard mineral resource exploration or mining;
(2) The identity of any affiliate of any person applying for a license; and
(3) For each applicant, its affiliate, or parent or subsidiary of an affiliate which is engaged in production in, or the purchase or sale in or to, the United States of copper, nickel, cobalt or manganese minerals or any metals refined from these minerals:
(i) The annual tons and dollar value of any of these minerals and metals so purchased, sold or produced for the two preceding years;
(ii) Copies of the annual report, balance sheet and income statement for the two preceding years; and
(iii) Copies of each document submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
§ 970.208
Fee.
(a)
General.
Section 104 of the Act provides that no application for the issuance or transfer of an exploration license will be certified unless the applicant pays to NOAA a reasonable administrative fee, which must reflect the reasonable administrative costs incurred in reviewing and processing the application.
(b)
Amount.
In order to meet this requirement, the application must include a fee payment of $100,000, payable to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce. If costs incurred by NOAA in reviewing and processing an application are significantly less than or in excess of the original fee, the agency subsequently will determine those differences in costs and adjust the fee accordingly. If the costs are significantly less, NOAA will refund the difference. If they are significantly greater, the applicant will be required to submit the additional payment prior to issue or transfer of the license. In the case of an application for transfer of a license to an entity which has previously been found qualified for a license, the Administrator may, on the basis of pre-application consultations pursuant to § 970.200(d), reduce the fee in advance by an appropriate amount which reflects costs avoided by reliance on previous findings made in relation to the proposed transferee. If an applicant elects to pursue the ‘banking’ option under § 970.601(d), and exercises that option by submitting two applications, only one application fee needs to be submitted with respect to each use of the ‘banking’ option.
[46 FR 45898, Sept. 15, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 5966, 5968, Feb. 9, 1982]

# Procedures
§ 970.209
Substantial compliance with application requirements.
(a) Priority of right for the issuance of licenses to new entrants will be established on the basis of the chronological order in which license applications which are in substantial compliance with the requirements established under this subpart are filed with the Administrator pursuant to § 970.200.
(b) In order for an application to be in substantial compliance with the requirements of this subpart, it must include information specifically identifiable with and materially responsive to each requirement contained in §§ 970.201 through 970.208. A determination on substantial compliance relates only to whether the application contains the required information, and does not constitute a determination on certification of the application, or on issuance or transfer of a license.
(c) The Administrator will make a determination as to whether the application is in substantial compliance. Within 30 days after receipt of an application and the opening of coordinates describing the application area, he will issue written notice to the applicant regarding such determination. The notice will identify, if applicable, in what respects the application is not in either full or substantial compliance. If the application is in substantial but not full compliance, the notice will specify the information which the applicant must submit in order to bring it into full compliance, and why the additional information is necessary.
[46 FR 45898, Sept. 15, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 11513, Mar. 17, 1982]
§ 970.210
Reasonable time for full compliance.
Priority of right will not be lost in case of any application filed which is in substantial but not full compliance, as specified in § 970.209, if the Administrator determines that the applicant, within 60 days after issuance to the applicant by the Administrator of written notice that the application is in substantial but not full compliance, has brought the application into full compliance with the requirements of §§ 970.201 through 970.208.
[46 FR 45898, Sept. 15, 1981; 47 FR 5966, Feb. 9, 1982]
§ 970.211
Consultation and cooperation with Federal agencies.
(a) Promptly after his receipt of an application and the opening of coordinates describing the application area, the Administrator will distribute a copy of the application to each other Federal agency or department which, pursuant to section 103(e) of the Act, has identified programs or activities within its statutory responsibilities which would be affected by the activities proposed in the application (
i.e.
, the Departments of State, Transportation, Justice, Interior, Defense, Treasury and Labor, as well as the Environmental Protection Agency, Federal Trade Commission, Small Business Administration and National Science Foundation). Based on its legal responsibilities and authorities, each such agency or department may, not later than 60 days after it receives a copy of the application which is in full compliance with this subpart, recommend certification of the application, issuance or transfer of the license, or denial of such certification, issuance or transfer. The advice or recommendation by the Attorney General or Federal Trade Commission on antitrust review, pursuant to § 970.207, must be submitted within 90 days after their receipt of a copy of the application which is in full compliance with this subpart. NOAA will use the benefits of this process of consultation and cooperation to facilitate necessary Federal decisions on the proposed exploration activities, pursuant to the mandate of section 103(e) of the Act to reduce the number of separate actions required to satisfy Federal agencies' statutory responsibilities.
(b) In any case in which a Federal agency or department recommends a denial, it will set forth in detail the manner in which the application does not comply with any law or regulation within its area of responsibility and will indicate how the application may be amended, or how terms, conditions or restrictions might be added to the license to assure compliance with such law or regulation.
(c) A recommendation from another Federal agency or department for denying or amending an application will not affect its having been in substantial compliance with the requirements of this subpart, pursuant to § 970.209, for purposes of establishing priority of right. However, pursuant to section 103(e) of the Act, NOAA will cooperate with such agencies and with the applicant with the goal of resolving the concerns raised and satisfying the statutory responsibilities of these agencies.
[46 FR 45898, Sept. 15, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 11513, Mar. 17, 1982]
§ 970.212
Public notice, hearing and comment.
(a)
Notice and comments.
The Administrator will publish in the
Federal Register,
for each application for an exploration license, notice that such application has been received. Subject to 15 CFR 971.802, interested persons will be permitted to examine the materials relevant to such application. Interested persons will have at least 60 days after publication of such notice to submit written comments to the Administrator.
(b)
Hearings.
(1) After preparation of the draft EIS on an application pursuant to section 109(d) of the Act, the Administrator shall hold a public hearing on the application and the draft EIS in an appropriate location, and may employ such additional methods as he deems appropriate to inform interested persons about each application and to invite their comments thereon.
(2) If the Administrator determines there exists one or more specific and material factual issues which require resolution by formal processes, at least one formal hearing will be held in the District of Columbia metropolitan area in accordance with the provisions of subpart I of 15 CFR part 971. The record developed in any such formal hearing will be part of the basis of the Administrator's decisions on an application.
(c) Hearings held pursuant to this section and other procedures will be consolidated insofar as practicable with hearings held and procedures employed by other agencies.
[46 FR 45898, Sept. 15, 1981, as amended at 54 FR 547, Jan. 6, 1989]
§ 970.213
Amendment to an application.
After an application has been submitted to the Administrator, but before a determination is made on the issuance or transfer of a license, the applicant must submit an amendment to the application if required by a significant change in the circumstances represented in the original application and affecting the requirements of this subpart. Applicants should consult with NOAA to determine if changes in circumstances are sufficiently significant to require submission of an amendment. The application, as amended, would then serve as the basis for determinations by the Administrator under this part. For each amendment judged by the Administrator to be significant, he will provide a copy of such amendment to each other Federal agency and department which received a copy of the original application, and also will provide for public notice, hearing and comment on the amendment pursuant to § 970.212. Such amendment, however, will not affect the priority of right established by the filing of the original application. After the issuance of or transfer of a license, any revision by the licensee will be made pursuant to § 970.513.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Applications Based on Exploration Commenced Before June 28, 1980; Resolution of Conflicts Among Overlapping Applications; Applications by New Entrants

# Source:
47 FR 24948, July 8, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 970.300
Purposes and definitions.
(a) This subpart sets forth the procedures which the Administrator will apply to applications filed with NOAA covering areas of the deep seabed where the applicants have engaged in exploration prior to June 28, 1980, and to the resolution of conflicts arising out of such applications. This subpart also establishes the date on which NOAA will begin to accept applications or amendments filed by new entrants, and certain other procedures for new entrants.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart the term:
(1)
Amendment
means an amendment to an application which changes the area applied for;
(2)
Application
means an application for an exploration license which is filed pursuant to the Act and this subpart;
(3)
Conflict
means the existence of more than one application or amendment with the same priority of right:
(i) Which are filed with the Administrator or with the Administrator and a reciprocating state; and
(ii) In which the deep seabed areas applied for overlap in whole or part, to the extent of the overlap;
(4)
Original conflict
means a conflict solely between or among applications;
(5)
New conflict
means a conflict between or among amendments filed after July 22, 1982, and on or before October 15, 1982;
(6)
Domestic conflict
means a conflict solely between or among applications or amendments which have been filed with the Administrator.
(7)
International conflict
means a conflict arising between or among applications or amendments filed with the Administrator and a reciprocating state.
§ 970.301
Requirements for applications based on pre-enactment exploration.
(a) Pursuant to section 101(b) of the Act, any United States citizen who was engaged in exploration before the effective date of the Act (June 28, 1980) qualifies as a pre-enactment explorer and may continue to engage in such exploration without a license:
(1) If such citizen applies under this part for a license with respect to such exploration within the time period specified in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(2) Until such license is issued to such citizen or a final administrative or judicial determination is made affirming the denial of certification of the application for, or issuance of, such license.
(b) Any application for a license based upon pre-enactment exploration must be filed, at the address specified in § 970.200(b), no later than 5:00 p.m. EST on March 12, 1982 (or such later date and time as the Administrator may announce by regulation). All such applications filed at or before that time will be deemed to be filed on such closing date.
(c) Applications not filed in accordance with this section will not be considered to be based on pre-enactment exploration, and may be filed only as new entrant applications under § 970.303.
(d) To receive a pre-enactment explore priority of right for issuance of a license, and application must be, when filed, in substantial compliance with requirements described in § 970.209(b). An application which is in substantial but not full compliance will not lose its priority of right if it is brought into full compliance according to § 970.210.
(e) Any application based on pre-enactment exploration must be for a reasonably compact area with respect to which the applicant is a pre-enactment explorer, and, notwithstanding any part of § 970.601 which indicates otherwise, such area must be bounded by a single continuous boundary.
(f) The coordinates and any chart of the logical mining unit applied for in an application based on a pre-enactment exploration must be submitted in a separate, sealed envelope.
(g) On or before March 12, 1982, the applicants must indicate to the Administrator, other than in the sealed portion of the application:
(1) The size of the area applied for;
(2) Whether the applicant or any person on the applicant's behalf has applied, or intends to apply, for the same area or substantially the same area to one or more nations, and the number of such other applications; and
(3) Whether the other applicant is pursuing the “banking” option under § 970.601(d), and the number of applications filed, or to be filed, in pursuit of the “banking” option.
§ 970.302
Procedures and criteria for resolving conflicts.
(a)
General.
This section governs the resolution of all conflicts between or among applications or amendments having pre-enactment explorer priority of right.
(b)
Identification of applicants.
On June 21, 1982, the Administrator will
meet with representatives of reciprocating states to identify their respective pre-enactment explorer applicants, and will identify the coordinates of the application areas applied for by such applicants.
(c)
Initial processing.
On or before July 13, 1982, the Administrator will determine whether each domestic application is entitled to a priority of right based on pre-enactment exploration in accordance with § 970.301.
(d)
Identification of conflicts.
On July 14, 1982, the Administrator will meet with representatives of reciprocating states to exchange lists of applications accorded pre-enactment explorer priorities of right, and will identify any conflicts existing among such applications.
(e)
Notification to applicants of conflicts.
If the Administrator identifies a conflict, he will send, no later than July 22, 1982, written notice of the conflict to each domestic applicant involved in the conflict. The notice will:
(1) Identify each applicant involved in the conflict in question:
(2) Identify the coordinates of the portions of the application areas which are in conflict;
(3) Indicate that the applicant may request from the Administrator the coordinates of the application areas from any other applications filed with the Administrator or with a reciprocating state (such coordinates will be provided subject to appropriate confidentiality arrangements);
(4) State whether;
(i) Each domestic application involved in the conflict is in substantial or, if known, full compliance with the requirements described in § 970.209(b); and
(ii) Each foreign application involved in the conflict meets, if known, the legal requirements of the reciprocating state in which it is filed;
(5) Notify each domestic applicant involved in a conflict that he may, after July 22, 1982, and on or before November 16, 1982, resolve the conflict voluntarily according to paragraph (f) of this section, and that on or after November 17, 1982, any unresolved conflict shall be resolved in accordance with paragraph (j) or (k) of this section, as applicable; and
(6) In the case of an international conflict, include a copy of any applicable conflict resolution procedures in force between the United States and its reciprocating states pursuant to section 118 of the Act.
(f)
Voluntary resolution of conflicts.
Each U.S. applicant involved in a conflict may resolve the conflict after July 22, 1982, and on or before November 16, 1982, by:
(1) Unilaterally, or by agreement with each other applicant involved in the conflict, filing an amendment to the application eliminating the conflict; or
(2) Agreeing in writing with the other applicant(s) involved in the conflict to submit it to an agreed binding conflict resolution procedure.
(g)
Amendments.
(1) Amendments must be filed in accordance with the requirements for applications described in § 970.200.
(2) The Administrator will:
(i) Accept no amendment prior to July 23, 1982;
(ii) Accord pre-enactment explorer priority of right only to amendments which:
(A) Pertain to areas with respect to which the applicant has engaged in pre-enactment exploration;
(B) Resolve an existing conflict with respect to that application;
(C) Do not apply for an area included in an application filed pursuant to § 970.301 which is accorded pre-enactment explorer priority of right or an application identified pursuant to § 970.302(b) which has been filed with a reciprocating state; and
(D) Are filed on or before October 15, 1982; and
(iii) Accord amendments which meet the requirements of this paragraph (g) the same priority of right as the applications to which they pertain.
(3) The area applied for in an amendment need not be adjacent to the area applied for in the original application.
(4) Amendments not accorded pre-enactment explorer priority of right may be filed as new entrant amendments under § 970.303.
(h)
Notification of amendments and new conflicts.
The Administrator will:
(1) No later than October 25, 1982, notify each reciprocating state of any
amendment accorded pre-enactment explorer priority of right pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section and, in cooperation with such states, identify any new conflicts;
(2) No later than October 27, 1982, notify each domestic applicant who is involved in a new conflict. The notice will:
(i) Identify each applicant with whom each new conflict has arisen;
(ii) Identify the coordinates of each area in which the applicant is involved in a new conflict;
(iii) Indicate that the applicant may request from the Administrator the coordinates of each area included in an amendment accorded pre-enactment explorer priority of right pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, or for which notice has been received from a reciprocating state (such coordinates will be provided subject to appropriate confidentiality arrangements);
(iv) Notify the applicant that he may, on or before November 16, 1982, resolve the conflict voluntarily according to paragraph (f) of this section, and that on or after November 17, 1982, any unresolved conflict shall be resolved in accordance with paragraph (j) or (k) of this section, as applicable; and
(v) In the case of an international conflict, include a copy of any applicable conflict resolution procedures in force between the United States and its reciprocating states pursuant to section 118 of the Act.
(i)
Government assistance in resolving international conflicts.
If, by October 26 1982, the applicants have not resolved, or agreed in writing to a specified binding procedure to resolve, an original international conflict, or new international conflict, the Administrator, the Secretary of State of the United States, and appropriate officials of the government of the reciprocating state to which the other applicant involved in the conflict applied will use their good offices to assist the applicants to resolve the conflict. After November 16, 1982, any unresolved international conflicts will be resolved in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section.
(j)
Unresolved domestic conflict
—(1)
Procedure.
(i) In the case of an original domestic conflict or a new domestic conflict, the applicants will be allowed until April 15, 1983, to resolve the conflict or agree in writing to submit the conflict to a specified binding conflict resolution procedure. If, by April 15, 1983, all applicants involved in an original or new domestic conflict have not resolved that conflict, or agreed in writing to submit the conflict to a specified binding conflict resolution procedure, the conflict will be resolved in a formal hearing held in accordance with subpart I of 15 CFR part 971, except that:
(A) The General Counsel of NOAA will not, as a matter of right, be a party to the hearing; however, the General Counsel may be admitted to the hearing by the administrative law judge as a party or as an interested person pursuant to 15 CFR 971.901 (f)(2) or (f)(3); and
(B) The administrative law judge will take such actions as he deems necessary and appropriate to conclude the hearing and transmit a recommended decision to the Administrator in an expeditious manner.
(ii) Notwithstanding the above, at any time on or after November 17, 1982, and on or before April 14, 1983, the applicants involved in the conflict may, by agreement, request the Administrator to resolve the conflict in a formal hearing as described above.
(2)
Decision principles for NOAA formal conflict resolution.
(i) The Administrator shall determine which applicant involved in a conflict between or among pre-enactment explorer applications or amendments shall be awarded all or part of each area in conflict.
(ii) The determination of the Administrator shall be based on the application of principles of equity which take into consideration, with respect to each applicant involved in the conflict, the following factors:
(A) The continuity and extent of activities relevant to each area in conflict and the application area of which it is a part;
(B) The date on which each applicant involved in the conflict, or predecessor in interest or component organization thereof, commenced activities at sea in the application area;
(C) The financial cost of activities relevant to each area in conflict and to
the application area of which it is a part, measured in constant dollars;
(D) The time when the activities were carried out, and the quality of the activities; and
(E) Such additional factors as the Administrator determines to be relevant, but excluding consideration of the future work plans of the applicants involved in any conflict.
(iii) For the purposes of this paragraph (j) of this section, the word
activities
means the undertakings, commitments of resources investigations, findings, research, engineering development and other activities relevant to the identification, discovery, and systematic analysis and evaluation of hard mineral resources and to the determination of the technical and economic feasibility of commercial recovery.
(iv) When considering the factors specified in paragraph (j)(2)(ii) of this section, the Administrator shall hear, and shall (except for purposes of apportionment pursuant to paragraph (j)(2)(v) of this section) limit his consideration to, all evidence based on the activities specified in paragraph (j)(2)(ii) of this section which were conducted on or before January 1, 1982,
Provided, however,
That an applicant must prove at-sea activities in the area in conflict prior to June 28, 1980, as a pre-condition to presentation of further evidence to the Administrator regarding activities in the area in conflict.
(v) In making his determination, the Administrator may award the entire area in conflict to one applicant involved in the conflict, or he may apportion the area among any or all of the applicants involved in the conflict. If, after applying the principles of equity, the Administrator determines that the area in conflict should be apportioned, the Administrator shall (to the maximum extent practicable consistent with the Administrator's application of the principles of equity) apportion the area in a manner designed to satisfy the plan of work set forth in the application of each applicant which is awarded part of the area.
(vi) Each applicant involved in the conflict must file an amendment to its application if necessary to implement the determination made by the Administrator.
(k)
Unresolved international conflicts.
(1) If, by November 17, 1982, all applicants involved in an original or new international conflict have not resolved that conflict, or agreed in writing to submit the conflict to a specified binding conflict resolution procedure, the applicants shall proceed in accordance with the conflict resolution procedures agreed to between the United States and its reciprocating states pursuant to section 118 of the Act.
(2) Each applicant whose application is involved in an international conflict shall be responsible for actions required in the conduct of the conflict resolution procedures, including bearing a proportional cost of implementing the procedures, representing himself in any proceedings, and assisting in the selection of arbitrators if necessary.
(l)
Continued opportunity for voluntary resolutions.
Each applicant may resolve any conflict by voluntary procedures at any time while that conflict persists.
(m)
Effect on priorities of new entrants.
(1) A pre-enactment explorer is entitled to a priority of right over a new entrant for any area in which the pre-enactment explorer has engaged in exploration prior to June 28, 1980 if, with respect to that area, the pre-enactment explorer files an application in accordance with this part on or after January 25, 1982 and on or before the closing date for pre-enactment explorer applications established under § 970.301(b).
(2) Any amendment which is filed by a pre-enactment explorer on or before October 15, 1982, relates back to the date of filing of the original application and shall give the pre-enactment explorer priority of right over all new entrants if the amendment is accorded a pre-enactment explorer priority of right under paragraph (g) of this section.
[47 FR 24948, July 8, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 548, Jan. 6, 1989]
§ 970.303
Procedures for new entrants.
(a)
Filing of new entrant applications or amendments; priority of right.
New entrant applications or amendments must be filed in accordance with
§ 970.200. A new entrant may file an application or amendment only at or after 1500 hours G.m.t. (11:00 a.m. EDT) January 3, 1983. All applications or amendments filed at that time shall be deemed to be filed simultaneously, and, if in accordance with § 970.209, shall have priority of right over any application or amendment filed subsequently. Priority of right for any application or amendment filed after that time will be established as described in § 970.209.
(b)
Conflicts.
(1) If a domestic conflict exists between or among new entrant applications or amendments, the applicants involved in the conflict shall resolve it.
(2) If an international conflict exists between or among new entrant applications or amendments, the conflict shall be resolved in accordance with applicable conflict resolution procedures agreed to between the United States and its reciprocating States pursuant to section 118 of the Act. The Administrator will provide each domestic applicant involved in an international conflict a copy of any such procedures in force when the Administrator issues notice to the applicant that an international conflict exists. Each applicant whose application is involved in an international conflict shall be responsible for actions required in the conduct of the conflict resolution procedures, including bearing a proportional cost of implementing the procedures, representing himself in any proceedings, and assisting in the selection of arbitrators if necessary.
§ 970.304
Action on portions of applications or amendments not in conflict.
If an applicant so requests, the Administrator will proceed in accordance with this part to review that portion of an area included in an application or amendment that is not involved in a conflict. However, the Administrator will proceed with such review only if the applicant advises the Administrator in writing that the applicant will continue to seek a license for the proposed exploration activities in the portion of the application area that is not in conflict. To the extent practicable, the deadlines for certification of an application or amendment and issuance of a license provided in §§ 970.400 and 970.500, respectively, will run from the date of filing of the original application.

# Subpart D—Certification of Applications

# Source:
46 FR 45902, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 970.400
General.
(a) Certification is an intermediate step between receipt of an application for issuance or transfer of a license and its actual issuance or transfer. It is a determination which focuses on the eligibility of the applicant.
(b) Before the Administrator may certify an application for issuance or transfer of a license, he must determine that issuance of the license would not violate any of the restrictions in § 970.103(b). He also must make written determinations with respect to the requirements set forth in §§ 970.401 through 970.406. This will be done after consultation with other departments and agencies pursuant to § 970.211.
(c) To the maximum extent possible, the Administrator will endeavor to complete certification of an application within 100 days after submission of an application which is in full compliance with subpart B of this part. If final certification or denial of certification has not occurred within 100 days after such submission of the application, the Administrator will inform the applicant in writing of the pending unresolved issues, the agency's efforts to resolve them, and an estimate of the time required to do so.
§ 970.401
Financial responsibility.
(a) Before the Administrator may certify an application for an exploration license he must find that the applicant has demonstrated that, upon issuance or transfer of the license, the applicant will be financially responsible to meet all obligations which he may require to engage in the exploration proposed in the application.
(b) In order for the Administrator to make this determination, the applicant must show to the Administrator's satisfaction that he is reasonably capable
of committing or raising sufficient resources to carry out, in accordance with the provisions contained in this part, the exploration program set forth in his exploration plan.
§ 970.402
Technological capability.
(a) Before the Administrator may certify an application for an exploration license, he must find that the applicant has demonstrated that, upon issuance or transfer of the license, the applicant will possess, or have access to or a reasonable expectation of obtaining, the technological capability to engage in the proposed exploration.
(b) In order for the Administrator to make this determination, the applicant must demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the applicant will possess or have access to, at the time of issuance or transfer of the license, the technology and expertise, as needed, to carry out the exploration program set forth in his exploration plan.
§ 970.403
Previous license and permit obligations.
In order to certify an application, the Administrator must find that the applicant has satisfactorily fulfilled all past obligations under any license or permit previously issued or transferred to the applicant under the Act.
§ 970.404
Adequate exploration plan.
Before he may certify an application, the Administrator must find that the proposed exploration plan of the applicant meets the requirements of § 970.203.
§ 970.405
Appropriate exploration site size and location.
Before the Administrator may certify an application, he must approve the size and location of the exploration area selected by the applicant. The Administrator will approve the size and location of the area unless he determines that the area is not a logical mining unit pursuant to § 970.601.
§ 970.406
Fee payment.
Before the Administrator may certify an application, he must find that the applicant has paid the license fee as specified in § 970.208.
§ 970.407
Denial of certification.
(a) The Administrator may deny certification of an application if he finds that the requirements of this subpart have not been met. If, in the course of reviewing an application for certification, the Administrator becomes aware of the fact that one or more of the requirements for issuance or transfer under §§ 970.503 through 970.507 will not be met, he may also deny certification of the application.
(b) When the Administrator proposes to deny certification he will send to the applicant, and publish in the
Federal Register,
written notice of intention to deny certification. Such notice will include:
(1) The basis upon which the Administrator proposes to deny certification; and
(2) If the basis for the proposed denial is a deficiency which the Administrator believes the applicant can correct:
(i) The action believed necessary to correct the deficiency; and
(ii) The time within which any correctable deficiency must be corrected (the period of time may not exceed 180 days except as specified by the Administrator for good cause).
(c) The Administrator will deny certification:
(1) On the 30th day after the date the notice is sent to the applicant, under paragraph (b) of this section, unless before such 30th day the applicant files with the Administrator a written request for an administrative review of the proposed denial; or
(2) On the last day of the period established under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section in which the applicant must correct a deficiency, if such deficiency has not been corrected before such day and an administrative review requested pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section is not pending or in progress.
(d) If a timely request for administrative review of the proposed denial is made by the applicant under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Administrator will promptly begin a formal hearing in accordance with Subpart I of 15 CFR part 971. If the proposed denial is the result of a correctable deficiency, the
administrative review will proceed concurrently with any attempts to correct the deficiency, unless the parties agree otherwise or the administrative law judge orders differently.
(e) If the Administrator denies certification, he will send to the applicant written notice of the denial, including the reasons therefor.
(f) Any final determination by the Administrator granting or denying certification is subject to judicial review as provided in Chapter 7 of Title 5, United States Code.
[46 FR 45902, Sept. 15, 1981, as amended at 54 FR 547, Jan. 6, 1989]
§ 970.408
Notice of certification.
Upon making a final determination to certify an application for an exploration license, the Administrator will promptly send written notice of his determination to the applicant.

# Subpart E—Issuance/Transfer/Terms, Conditions and Restrictions

# Source:
46 FR 45903, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 970.500
General.
(a)
Proposal.
After certification of an application pursuant to Subpart D of this part, the Administrator will proceed with a proposal to issue or transfer a license for the exploration activities described in the application.
(b)(1)
Terms, conditions and restrictions.
Within 180 days (or such longer period as the Administrator may establish for good cause shown in writing) after certification, the Administrator will propose terms and conditions for, and restrictions on, the proposed exploration which are consistent with the provisions of the Act and this part as set forth in §§ 970.517 through 970.524. Proposed and final terms, conditions and restrictions will be uniform in all licenses, except to the extent that differing physical and environmental conditions require the establishment of special terms, conditions and restrictions for the conservation of natural resources, protection of the environment, or the safety of life and property at sea. The Administrator will propose these in writing to the applicant. Also, public notice thereof will be provided pursuant to § 970.501, and they will be included with the draft of the EIS on the issuance of a license which is required by section 109(d) of the Act.
(2) If the Administrator does not propose terms, conditions and restrictions within 180 days after certification, he will notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for the delay and will indicate the approximate date on which the proposed terms, conditions and restrictions will be completed.
(c)
Findings.
Before issuing or transferring an exploration license, the Administrator must make written findings in accordance with the requirements of §§ 970.503 through 970.507. These findings will be made after considering all information submitted with respect to the application and proposed issuance or transfer. He will make a final determination on issuance or transfer of a license, and will publish a final EIS on that action, within 180 days (or such longer period of time as he may establish for good cause shown in writing) following the date on which proposed terms, conditions and restrictions, and the draft EIS, are published.

# Issuance/Transfer; Modification/Revision; Suspension/Revocation
§ 970.501
Proposal to issue or transfer and of terms, conditions and restrictions.
(a)
Notice and comment.
The Administrator will publish in the
Federal Register
notice of each proposal to issue or transfer, and of terms and conditions for, and restrictions on, an exploration license. Subject to 15 CFR 971.802, interested persons will be permitted to examine the materials relevant to such proposals. Interested persons will have at least 60 days after publication of such notice to submit written comments to the Administrator.
(b)
Hearings.
(1) The Administrator will hold a public hearing in an appropriate location and may employ such additional methods as he deems appropriate to inform interested persons about each proposal and to invite their comments thereon.
(2) If the Administrator determines there exists one or more specific and
material factual issues which require resolution by formal processes, at least one formal hearing will be held in the District of Columbia metropolitan area in accordance with the provisions of subpart I of 15 CFR part 971. The record developed in any such formal hearing will be part of the basis for the Administrator's decisions on issuance or transfer of, and of terms, conditions and restrictions for the license.
(c) Hearings held pursuant to this section will be consolidated insofar as
practicable with hearings held by other agencies.
[46 FR 45903, Sept. 15, 1981, as amended at 54 FR 548, Jan. 6, 1989]
§ 970.502
Consultation and cooperation with Federal agencies.
Prior to the issuance or transfer of an exploration license, the Administrator will continue the consultation and cooperation with other Federal agencies which were initiated pursuant to § 970.211. This consultation will be to assure compliance with, among other statutes, the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, as amended, and the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act. He also will consult, prior to any issuance, transfer, modification or renewal of a license, with any affected Regional Fishery Management Council established pursuant to section 302 of the Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 1852) if the activities undertaken pursuant to such license could adversely affect any fishery within the Fishery Conservation Zone, or any anadromous species or Continental Shelf fishery resource subject to the exclusive management authority of the United States beyond such zone.
§ 970.503
Freedom of the high seas.
(a) Before issuing or transferring an exploration license, the Administrator must find that the exploration proposed in the application will not unreasonably interfere with the exercise of the freedoms of the high seas by other nations, as recognized under general principles of international law.
(b) In making this finding, the Administrator will recognize that exploration for hard mineral resources of the deep seabed is a freedom of the high seas. In the exercise of this right, each licensee must act with reasonable regard for the interests of other nations in their exercise of the freedoms of the high seas.
(c)(1) In the event of a conflict between the exploration program of an applicant or licensee and a competing use of the high seas by another nation or its nationals, the Administrator, in consultation and cooperation with the Department of State and other interested agencies, will enter into negotiations with that nation to resolve the conflict. To the maximum extent possible the Administrator will endeavor to resolve the conflict in a manner that will allow both uses to take place in a manner in which neither will unreasonably interfere with the other.
(2) If both uses cannot be conducted harmoniously in the area subject to the exploration plan, the Administrator will decide whether to issue or transfer the license.
§ 970.504
International obligations of the United States.
Before issuing or transferring an exploration license, the Administrator must find that the exploration proposed in the application will not conflict with any international obligation of the United States established by any treaty or international convention in force with respect to the United States.
§ 970.505
Breach of international peace and security involving armed conflict.
Before issuing or transferring an exploration license, the Administrator must find that the exploration proposed in the application will not create a situation which may reasonably be expected to lead to a breach of international peace and security involving armed conflict.
§ 970.506
Environmental effects.
Before issuing or transferring an exploration license, the Administrator must find that the exploration proposed in the application cannot reasonably be expected to result in a significant adverse effect on the quality of the environment, taking into account the analyses and information in any
applicable EIS prepared pursuant to section 109(c) or 109(d) of the Act. This finding also will be based upon the considerations and approach in § 970.701.
§ 970.507
Safety at sea.
Before issuing or transferring an exploration license, the Administrator must find that the exploration proposed in the application will not pose an inordinate threat to the safety of life and property at sea. This finding will be based on the requirements reflected in §§ 970.205 and 970.801.
§ 970.508
Denial of issuance or transfer.
(a) The Administrator may deny issuance or transfer of a license if he finds that the applicant or the proposed exploration activities do not meet the requirements of this part for the issuance or transfer of a license.
(b) When the Administrator proposes to deny issuance or transfer, he will send to the applicant, and publish in the
Federal Register,
written notice of such intention to deny issuance or transfer. Such notice will include:
(1) The basis upon which the Administrator proposes to deny issuance or transfer; and
(2) If the basis for the proposed denial is a deficiency which the Administrator believes the applicant can correct:
(i) The action believed necessary to correct the deficiency; and
(ii) The time within which any correctable deficiency must be corrected (the period of time may not exceed 180 days except as specified by the Administrator for good cause).
The
Federal Register
notice will not include the coordinates of the proposed exploration area.
(c) The Administrator will deny issuance or transfer:
(1) On the 30th day after the date the notice is sent to the applicant under paragraph (b) of this section, unless before such 30th day the applicant files with the Administrator a written request for an administrative review of the proposed denial; or
(2) On the last day of the period established under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section in which the applicant must correct a deficiency, if such deficiency has not been corrected before such day and an administrative review requested pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section is not pending or in progress.
(d) If a timely request for administrative review of the proposed denial is made by the applicant under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Administrator will promptly begin a formal hearing in accordance with subpart I of 15 CFR part 971. If the proposed denial is the result of a correctable deficiency, the administrative review will proceed concurrently with any attempt to correct the deficiency, unless the parties agree otherwise or the administrative law judge orders differently.
(e) If the Administrator denies issuance or transfer, he will send to the applicant written notice of the denial, including the reasons therefor.
(f) Any final determination by the Administrator granting or denying issuance of a license is subject to judicial review as provided in chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code.
[46 FR 45903, Sept. 15, 1981, as amended at 54 FR 548, Jan. 6, 1989]
§ 970.509
Notice of issuance or transfer.
If the Administrator finds that the requirements of this part have been met, he will issue or transfer the license along with the appropriate terms, conditions and restrictions. Notification thereof will be made in writing to the applicant and in the
Federal Register.
§ 970.510
Objections to terms, conditions and restrictions.
(a) The licensee may file a notice of objection to any term, condition or restriction in the license. The licensee may object on the grounds that any term, condition or restriction is inconsistent with the Act or this part, or on any other grounds which may be raised under applicable provisions of law. If the licensee does not file notice of an objection within the 60-day period immediately following the licensee's receipt of the notice of issuance or transfer under § 970.509, he will be deemed conclusively to have accepted the terms, conditions and restrictions in the license.
(b) Any notice of objection filed under paragraph (a) of this section must be in writing, must contain the precise legal basis for the objection, and must provide information relevant to any underlying factual issues deemed by the licensee as necessary to the Administrator's decision upon the objection.
(c) Within 90 days after receipt of the notice of objection, the Administrator will act on the objection and publish in the
Federal Register,
as well as provide to the licensee, written notice of his decision.
(d) If, after the Administrator takes final action on an objection, the licensee demonstrates that a dispute remains on a material issue of fact, the Administrator will provide for a formal hearing which will proceed in accordance with subpart I of 15 CFR part 971.
(e) Any final determination by the Administrator on an objection to terms, conditions or restrictions in a license after the formal hearing provided in paragraph (d) of this section is subject to judicial review as provided in chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code.
[46 FR 45903, Sept. 15, 1981, as amended at 54 FR 548, Jan. 6, 1989]
§ 970.511
Suspension or modification of activities; suspension or revocation of licenses.
(a) The Administrator may:
(1) In addition to, or in lieu of, the imposition of any civil penalty under subpart J of 15 CFR part 971, or in addition to the imposition of any fine under subpart J, suspend or revoke any license issued under this part, or suspend or modify any particular activities under such a license, if the licensee substantially fails to comply with any provision of the Act, this part, or any term, condition or restriction of the license; and
(2) Suspend or modify particular activities under any license, if the President determines that such suspension or modification is necessary:
(i) To avoid any conflict with any international obligation of the United States established by any treaty or convention in force with respect to the United States; or
(ii) To avoid any situation which may reasonably be expected to lead to a breach of international peace and security involving armed conflict.
(b) Any action taken by the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) will proceed pursuant to the procedures in 15 CFR 971.1003. Any action taken in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) will proceed pursuant to paragraphs (c) through (i) of this section, other than paragraph (h)(2).
(c) Prior to taking any action specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section the Administrator will publish in the
Federal Register,
and send to the licensee, written notice of the proposed action. The notice will include:
(1) The basis of the proposed action; and
(2) If the basis for the proposed action is a deficiency which the Administrator believes the licensee can correct:
(i) The action believed necessary to correct the deficiency; and
(ii) The time within which any correctable deficiency must be corrected (this period of time may not exceed 180 days except as specified by the Administrator for good cause).
(d) The Administrator will take the proposed action:
(1) On the 30th day after the date the notice is sent to the licensee, under paragraph (c) of this section, unless before such 30th day the licensee files with the Administrator a written request for an administrative review of the proposed action; or
(2) On the last day of the period established under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section in which the licensee must correct the deficiency, if such deficiency has not been corrected before such day and an administrative review requested pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section is not pending or in progress.
(e) If a timely request for administrative review of the proposed action is made by the licensee under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Administrator will promptly begin a formal hearing in accordance with subpart I of 15 CFR part 971. If the proposed action is the result of a correctable deficiency, the administrative review will proceed concurrently with any attempt to correct
the deficiency, unless the parties agree otherwise or the administrative law judge orders differently.
(f) The Administrator will serve on the licensee, and publish in the
Federal Register,
written notice of the action taken including the reasons therefor.
(g) Any final determination by the Administrator to take the proposed action is subject to judicial review as provided in chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code.
(h) The issuance of any notice of proposed action under this section will not affect the continuation of exploration activities by a licensee, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i) The provisions of paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (h) of this section will not apply when:
(1) The President determines by Executive Order that an immediate suspension of a license, or immediate suspension or modification of particular activities under such license, is necessary for the reasons set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; or
(2) The Administrator determines that immediate suspension of such a license, or immediate suspension or modification of particular activities under a license, is necessary to prevent a significant adverse effect on the environment or to preserve the safety of life or property at sea, and the Administrator issues an emergency order in accordance with § 971.1003(d)(4).
(j) The Administrator will immediately rescind the emergency order as soon as he has determined that the cause for the order has been removed.
[46 FR 45903, Sept. 15, 1981, as amended at 54 FR 548, Jan. 6, 1989]
§ 970.512
Modification of terms, conditions and restrictions.
(a) After issuance or transfer of any license, the Administrator, after consultation with interested agencies and the licensee, may modify any term, condition, or restriction in such license for the following purposes:
(1) To avoid unreasonable interference with the interests of other nations in their exercise of the freedoms of the high seas, as recognized under general principles of international law. This determination will take into account the provisions of § 970.503;
(2) If relevant data and other information (including, but not limited to, data resulting from exploration activities under the license) indicate that modification is required to protect the quality of the environment or to promote the safety of life and property at sea;
(3) To avoid a conflict with any international obligation of the United States, established by any treaty or convention in force with respect to the United States, as determined in writing by the President; or
(4) To avoid any situation which may reasonably be expected to lead to a breach of international peace and security involving armed conflict, as determined in writing by the President.
(b) The procedures for objection to the modification of a term, condition or restriction will be the same as those for objection to an original term, condition or restriction under § 970.510, except that the period for filing notice of objection will run from the receipt of notice of proposed modification. Public notice of proposed modifications under this section will be made according to § 970.514. On or before the date of publication of public notice, written notice will be provided to the licensee.
[46 FR 45903, Sept. 15, 1981; 47 FR 5966, Feb. 9, 1982]
§ 970.513
Revision of a license.
(a) During the term of an exploration license, the licensee may submit to the Administrator an application for a revision of the license or the exploration plan associated with it. NOAA recognizes that changes in circumstances encountered, and in information and technology developed, by the licensee during exploration may require such revisions. In some cases it may even be advisable to recognize at the time of filing the original license application that although the essential information for issuing or transferring a license as specified in §§ 970.201 through 920.208 must be included in such application, some details may have to be provided in the future in the form of a revision. In such instances, the Administrator may issue or transfer a license
which would authorize exploration activities and plans only to the extent described in the application.
(b) The Administrator will approve such application for a revision upon a finding in writing that the revision will comply with the requirements of the Act and this part.
(c) A change which would require an application to and approval by the Administrator as a revision is a major change in one or more of:
(1) The bases for certifying the original application pursuant to §§ 970.401 through 970.406;
(2) The bases for issuing or transferring the license pursuant to §§ 970.503 through 970.507; or
(3) The terms, conditions and restrictions issued for the license pursuant to §§ 970.517 through 970.524.
A major change is one which is of such significance so as to raise a question as to:
(i) The applicant's ability to meet the requirements of the sections cited in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section; or
(ii) The sufficiency of the terms, conditions and restrictions to accomplish their intended purpose.
§ 970.514
Scale requiring application procedures.
(a) A proposal by the Administrator to modify a term, condition or restriction in a license pursuant to § 970.512, or an application by a licensee for revision of a license or exploration plan pursuant to § 970.513, is significant, and the full application requirements and procedures will apply, if it would result in other than an incidental:
(1) Increase in the size of the exploration area; or
(2) Change in the location of the area.
An incidental increase or change is that which equals two percent or less of the original exploration area, so long as such adjustment is contiguous to the licensed area.
(b) All proposed modifications or revisions other than described in paragraph (a) of this section will be acted on after a notice thereof is published by the Administrator in the
Federal Register,
with a 60-day opportunity for public comment. On a case-by-case basis, the Administrator will determine if other procedures, such as a public hearing in a potentially affected area, are warranted. Notice of the Administrator's decision on the proposed modification will be provided to the licensee in writing and published in the
Federal Register.
§ 970.515
Duration of a license.
(a) Each exploration license will be issued for a period of 10 years.
(b) If the licensee has substantially complied with the license and its associated exploration plan and requests an extension of the license, the Administrator will extend the license on terms, conditions and restrictions consistent with the Act and this part for a period of not more than 5 years.
In determining substantial compliance for purposes of this section, the Administrator may make allowance for deviation from the exploration plan for good cause, such as significantly changed market conditions. However, a request for extension must be accompanied by an amended exploration plan to govern the activities by the licensee during the extended period.
(c) Successive extensions may be requested, and will be granted by the Administrator, based on the criteria, and for the length of time, specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 970.516
Approval of license transfers.
(a) The Administrator may transfer a license after a written request by the licensee. After a licensee submits such a request to the Administrator, the proposed transferee will be deemed an applicant for an exploration license, and will be subject to the requirements and procedures of this part.
(b) The Administrator will transfer a license if the proposed transferee and exploration activities meet the requirements of the Act and this part, and if the proposed transfer is in the public interest. The Administrator will presume that the transfer is in the public interest if it meets the requirements of the Act and this part. In case of mere change in the form or ownership of a licensee, the Administrator may waive relevant determinations for requirements for which no changes have occurred since the preceding application.

# Terms, Conditions, and Restrictions
§ 970.517
Diligence requirements.
The terms, conditions and restrictions in each exploration license must include provisions to assure diligent development. The Administrator will establish these pursuant to § 970.602.
§ 970.518
Environmental protection requirements.
(a) Each exploration license must contain such terms, conditions and restrictions, established by the Administrator, which prescribe actions the licensee must take in the conduct of exploration activities to assure protection of the environment. The Administrator will establish these pursuant to § 970.702.
(b) Before establishing the terms, conditions and restrictions pertaining to environmental protection, the Administrator will consult with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating. He also will take into account and give due consideration to the information contained in the final EIS prepared with respect to that proposed license.
§ 970.519
Resource conservation requirements.
For the purpose of conservation of natural resources, each license issued under this part will contain, as needed, terms, conditions and restrictions which have due regard for the prevention of waste and the future opportunity for the commercial recovery of the unrecovered balance of the hard mineral resources in the license area. The Administrator will establish these pursuant to § 970.603.
§ 970.520
Freedom of the high seas requirements.
Each license issued under this part must include such restrictions as may be necessary and appropriate to ensure that the exploration activities do not unreasonably interfere with the interests of other nations in their exercise of the freedoms of the high seas, as recognized under general principles of international law, such as fishing, navigation, submarine pipeline and cable laying, and scientific research. The Administrator will consider the provisions in § 970.503 in establishing these restrictions.
§ 970.521
Safety at sea requirements.
The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, in consultation with the Administrator, will require in any license issued under this part, in conformity with principles of international law, that vessels documented under the laws of the United States and used in activities authorized under the license comply with conditions regarding the design, construction, alteration, repair, equipment, operation, manning and maintenance relating to vessel and crew safety and the promotion of safety of life and property at sea. These requirements will be established with reference to subpart H of this part.
§ 970.522
Monitoring requirements.
Each exploration license must require the licensee:
(a) To allow the Administrator to place appropriate Federal officers or employees as observers aboard vessels used by the licensee in exploration activities to:
(1) Monitor such activities at such time, and to such extent, as the Administrator deems reasonable and necessary to assess the effectiveness of the terms, conditions, and restrictions of the license; and
(2) Report to the Administrator whenever such officers or employees have reason to believe there is a failure to comply with such terms, conditions, and restrictions;
(b) To cooperate with such officers and employees in the performance of monitoring functions; and
(c) To monitor the environmental effects of the exploration activities in accordance with a monitoring plan approved and issued by the Administrator as license terms, conditions and restrictions, and to submit such information as the Administrator finds to be necessary and appropriate to assess environmental impacts and to develop and evaluate possible methods of mitigating adverse environmental effects. This environmental monitoring plan
and reporting will respond to the concerns and procedures discussed in Subpart G of this part.
§ 970.523
Special terms, conditions, and restrictions.
Although the general criteria and standards to be used in establishing terms, conditions, and restrictions for a license are set forth in this part, as referenced in §§ 970.517 through 970.522, the Administrator may impose special terms, conditions, and restrictions for the conservation of natural resources, protection of the environment, or the safety of life and property at sea when required by differing physical and environmental conditions.
§ 970.524
Other Federal requirements.
Pursuant to § 970.211, another Federal agency, upon review of an exploration license application submitted under this part, may indicate how terms, conditions, and restrictions might be added to the license, to assure compliance with any law or regulation within that agency's area of responsibility. In response to the intent, reflected in section 103(e) of the Act, to reduce the number of separate actions to satisfy the statutory responsibilities of these agencies, the Administrator may include such terms, conditions, and restrictions in a license.

# Subpart F—Resource Development Concepts

# Source:
46 FR 45907, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 970.600
General.
Several provisions in the Act relate to appropriate mining techniques or mining efficiency. These raise what could be characterized as resource development issues. In particular, under section 103(a)(2)(D) of the Act, the applicant will select the size and location of the area of an exploration plan, which will be approved unless the Administrator finds that the area is not a “logical mining unit.” Also, pursuant to section 108 of the Act the applicant's exploration plan and the terms, conditions and restrictions of each license must be designed to ensure diligent development. In addition, for the purpose of conservation of natural resources, section 110 of the Act provides that each license is to contain, but only as needed, terms, conditions, and restrictions which have due regard for the prevention of waste and the future opportunity for the commercial recovery of the unrecovered balance of the resources.
§ 970.601
Logical mining unit.
(a) In the case of an exploration license, a logical mining unit is an area of the deep seabed which can be explored under the license, and within the 10-year license period, in an efficient, economical and orderly manner with due regard for conservation and protection of the environment, taking into consideration the resource data, other relevant physical and environmental characteristics, and the state of the technology of the applicant as set forth in the exploration plan. In addition, it must be of sufficient size to allow for intensive exploration.
(b) Approval by the Administrator of a proposed exploration logical mining unit will be based on a case-by-case review of each application. In order to provide a proper basis for this evaluation, the applicant's exploration plan should describe the seabed topography, the location of mineral deposits and the nature of planned equipment and operations. Also, the exploration plan must show the relationship between the area to be explored and the applicant's plans for commercial recovery volume, to the extent projected in the exploration plan.
(c) In delineating an exploration area, the applicant need not include unmineable areas. Thus, the area need not consist of contiguous segments, as long as each segment would be efficiently mineable and the total proposed area constitutes a logical mining unit. In describing the area, the applicant must present the geodetic coordinates of the points defining the boundaries, referred to the World Geodetic System (WGS) Datum. A boundary between points must be a geodesic. If grid coordinates are desired, the Universal Transverse Mercator Grid System must be used.
(d) At the applicant's option, for the purpose of satisfying a possible obligation under a future Law of the Sea Treaty, the applicant may propose an exploration area which includes two exploration logical mining units. The applicant should specify in the application if this “banking” option is chosen, and any applicant choosing this option and filing an application based on pre-enactment exploration under § 970.301 shall so notify the Administrator in accordance with § 970.301(g).
(e) Applicants are advised that NOAA will not accept an application or issue a license for an exploration area larger than 150,000 square kilometers unless the applicant can demonstrate the necessity of a larger area based on factors such as topography, nodule abundance, distribution and ore grade. If the applicant elects to pursue the “banking” option described in paragraph (d) of this section, and wishes to apply for an exploration area larger than 150,000 square kilometers, the applicant must file a second application with respect to at least the area in excess of 150,000 square kilometers, unless the applicant justifies such excess area as part of a single application under the preceding sentence.
[46 FR 45907, Sept. 15, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 5968, Feb. 9, 1982]
§ 970.602
Diligent exploration.
(a) Each licensee must pursue diligently the activities described in his approved exploration plan. This requirement applies to the full scope of the plan, including environmental safeguards and monitoring systems. To help assure this diligence, terms, conditions and restrictions which the Administrator issues with a license will require such periodic reasonable expenditures for exploration by the licensee as the Administrator may establish, taking into account the size of the area of the deep seabed to which the exploration plan applies and the amount of funds which is estimated by the Administrator to be required during exploration for commercial recovery of hard mineral resources to begin within the time limit established by the Administrator. However, such required expenditures will not be established at a level which would discourage exploration by persons with less costly technology than is prevalently in use.
(b) In order to fulfill the diligence requirement, the applicant first must propose to the Administrator an estimated schedule of activities and expenditures pursuant to § 970.203(b) (3) and (6). The schedule must show, and the Administrator must be able to make a reasonable determination, that the applicant can complete his exploration activities within the term of the license. In this regard, there must be a reasonable relationship between the size of the exploration area and the financial and technological resources reflected in the application. Also, the exploration must clearly point toward developing the ability, by the end of the 10-year license period, to apply for and obtain a permit for commercial recovery.
(c) Ultimately, the diligence requirement will involve a retrospective determination by the Administrator, based on the licensee's reasonable conformance to the approved exploration plan. Such determination, however, will take into account the need for some degree of flexibility in an exploration plan. It also will include consideration of the needs and stage of development of each licensee, again based on the approved exploration plan. In addition, the determination will take account of legitimate periods of time when there is no or very low expenditure, and will allow for a certain degree of flexibility for changes encountered by the licensee in such factors as its resource knowledge and financial considerations.
(d) In order for the Administrator to make determinations on a licensee's adherence to the diligence requirements, the licensee must submit a report annually reflecting his conformance to the schedule of activities and expenditures contained in the license. In case of any changes requiring a revision to an approved license and exploration plan, the licensee must advise the Administrator in accordance with § 970.513.
§ 970.603
Conservation of resources.
(a) With respect to the exploration phase of seabed mining, the requirement for the conservation of natural resources, encompassing due regard for the prevention of waste and the future opportunity for the commercial recovery of the unrecovered balance of the hard mineral resources in the area to which the license applies, may not be particularly relevant. Thus, since the Act requires such terms, conditions and restrictions only as needed, exploration licenses will require such provisions only as the Administrator deems necessary.
(b) NOAA views license phase mining system tests as an opportunity to examine, with industry, the conservation implications of any mining patterns used. Thus, in order to develop information needed for future decisions during commercial recovery, NOAA will include with a license a requirement for the submission of collector track and nodule production data. Only if information submitted reflects that the integrated system tests are resulting in undue waste or threatening the future opportunity for commercial recovery of the unrecovered balance of hard mineral resources will the Administrator modify the terms, conditions or restrictions pertaining to the conservation of natural resources, in order to address such problems.
(c) If the Administrator so modifies such terms, conditions and restrictions relating to conservation of resources, he will employ a balancing process in the consideration of the state of the technology being developed, the processing system utilized and the value and potential use of any waste, the environmental effects of the exploration activities, economic and resource data, and the national need for hard mineral resources.

# Subpart G—Environmental Effects

# Source:
46 FR 45908, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 970.700
General.
Congress, in authorizing the exploration for hard mineral resources under the Act, also enacted provisions relating to the protection of the marine environment from the effects of exploration activities. For example, before the Administrator may issue a license, pursuant to section 105(a)(4) of the Act he must find that the exploration proposed in an application cannot reasonably be expected to result in a significant adverse effect on the quality of the environment. Also, the Act requires in section 109(b) that each license issued by the Administrator must contain such terms, conditions and restrictions which prescribe the actions the licensee must take in the conduct of exploration activities to assure protection of the environment. Furthermore, the Act in section 105(c)(1)(B) provides for the modification by the Administrator of any term, condition or restriction if relevant data and other information indicates that modification is required to protect the quality of the environment. In addition, section 114 of the Act specifies that each license issued under the Act must require the licensee to monitor the environmental effects of the exploration activities in accordance with guidelines issued by the Administrator, and to submit such information as the Administrator finds to be necessary and appropriate to assess environmental impacts and to develop and evaluate possible methods of mitigating adverse environmental effects.
§ 970.701
Significant adverse environmental effects.
(a)
Activities with no significant impact.
NOAA believes that exploration activities of the type listed below are very similar or identical to activities considered in section 6(c)(3) of NOAA Directives Manual 02-10, and therefore have no potential for significant environmental impact, and will require no further environmental assessment.
(1) Gravity and magnetometric observations and measurements;
(2) Bottom and sub-bottom acoustic profiling or imaging without the use of explosives;
(3) Mineral sampling of a limited nature such as those using either core, grab or basket samplers;
(4) Water and biotic sampling, if the sampling does not adversely affect shellfish beds, marine mammals, or an
endangered species, or if permitted by the National Marine Fisheries Service or another Federal agency;
(5) Meteorological observations and measurements, including the setting of instruments;
(6) Hydrographic and oceanographic observations and measurements, including the setting of instruments;
(7) Sampling by box core, small diameter core or grab sampler, to determine seabed geological or geotechnical properties;
(8) Television and still photographic observation and measurements;
(9) Shipboard mineral assaying and analysis; and
(10) Positioning systems, including bottom transponders and surface and subsurface buoys filed in
Notices to Mariners.
(b)
Activities with potential impact.
(1) NOAA research has identified at-sea testing of recovery equipment and the operation of processing test facilities as activities which have some potential for significant environmental impacts during exploration. However, the research has revealed that only the following limited effects are expected to have potential for significant adverse environmental impact.
(2) The programmatic EIS's documents three at-sea effects of deep seabed mining which cumulatively during commercial recovery have the potential for significant effect. These three effects also occur during mining system tests that may be conducted under a license, but are expected to be insignificant. These include the following:
(i)
Destruction of benthos in and near the collector track.
Present information reflects that the impact from this effect during mining tests under exploration licenses will be extremely small.
(ii)
Blanketing of benthic fauna and dilution of food supply away from mine site subareas.
The settling of fine sediments disturbed by tests under a license of scale-model mining systems which simulate commercial recovery could adversely affect benthic fauna by blanketing, diluation of their food supply, or both. Because of the anticipated slow settling rate of the sediments, the affected area could be quite large. However, research results are insufficient to conclude that this will indeed be a problem.
(iii)
Surface plume effect on fish larvae.
The impact of demonstration-scale mining tests during exploration is expected to be insignificant.
(3) If processing facilities in the United States are planned to be used for testing during exploration, NOAA also will assess their impacts in the site-specific EIS developed for each license.
(c)
NOAA approach.
In making determinations on significant adverse environmental effects, the Administrator will draw on the above conclusions and other findings in NOAA's programmatic environmental statement and site-specific statements issued in accordance with the Act. He will issue licenses with terms, conditions and restrictions containing, as appropriate, environmental protection or mitigation requirements (pursuant to § 970.518) and monitoring requirements (pursuant to § 970.522). The focus of NOAA's environmental efforts will be on environmental research and on monitoring during mining tests to acquire more information on the environmental effects of deep seabed mining. If these efforts reveal that modification is required to protect the quality of the environment, NOAA then may modify terms, conditions and restrictions pursuant to § 970.512.
§ 970.702
Monitoring and mitigation of environmental effects.
(a)
Monitoring.
If an application is determined to be otherwise acceptable, the Administrator will specify an environmental monitoring plan as part of the terms, conditions and restrictions developed for each license. The plan will be based on the monotoring plan proposed by the applicant and reviewed by NOAA for completeness, accuracy and statistical reliability. This monitoring strategy will be devised to insure that the exploration activities do not deviate significantly from the approved exploration plan and to determine if the assessment of the plan's acceptability was sound. The monitoring plan, among other things, will include monitoring environmental parameters relating to verficiation of NOAA's findings concerning potential impacts, but
relating mainly to the three unresolved concerns with the potential for significant environmental effect, as identified in § 970.701(b)(2). NOAA has developed a technical guidance document, which includes parameters pertaining to the upper and lower water column and operational aspects, which document will provide assistance in developing monitoring plans in consultation with applicants.
(b)
Mitigation.
Monitoring and continued research may develop information on future needs for mitigating environmental effects. If such needs are identified, terms, conditions and restrictions can be modified appropriately.

# Subpart H—Safety of Life and Property at Sea
§ 970.800
General.
The Act contains requirements, in the context of several decisions, that relate to assuring the safety of life and property at sea. For instance, before the Administrator may issue a license, section 105(a)(5) of the Act requires that he find that the proposed exploration will not pose an inordinate threat to the safety of life and property at sea. Also, under section 112(a) of the Act the Coast Guard, in consultation with NOAA, must require in any license or permit issued under the Act, in conformity with principles of international law, that vessels documented in the United States and used in activities authorized under the license comply with conditions regarding the design, construction, alteration, repair, equipment, operation, manning and maintenance relating to vessel and crew safety and the safety of life and property at sea. In addition, under section 105(c)(1)(B) of the Act, the Administrator may modify terms, conditions and restrictions for a license if required to promote the safety of life and property at sea.
[46 FR 45909, Sept. 15, 1981]
§ 970.801
Criteria for safety of life and property at sea.
Response to the safety at sea requirements in essence will involve vessel inspection requirements. These inspection requirements may be identified by reference to present laws and regulations. The primary inspection statutes pertaining to United States flag vessels are: 46 U.S.C. 86 (Loadlines); 46 U.S.C. 395 (Inspection of seagoing barges over 100 gross tons); 46 U.S.C. 367 (Inspection of sea-going motor vessels over 300 gross tons); and 46 U.S.C. 404 (Inspection of vessels above 15 gross tons carrying freight for hire). All United States flag vessels will be required to meet existing regulatory requirements applicable to such vessels. This includes the requirement for a current valid Coast Guard Certificate of Inspection, as specified in § 970.205. Being United States flag, these vessels will be under United States jurisdiction on the high seas and subject to domestic enforcement procedures. With respect to foreign flag vessels, the SOLAS 74 or SOLAS 60 certificate requirements or alternative IACS requirements, as specified in § 970.205, apply.
[46 FR 45909, Sept. 15, 1981]

# Subpart I—Miscellaneous
§ 970.900
Other applicable regulations.
The regulations in subparts H, I and J of 15 CFR part 971 are consolidated regulations and are applicable both to licenses under this part and to permits under 15 CFR part 971. The regulations in subparts H, I and J of part 971 govern records to be maintained and information to be submitted by licensees and permittees, public disclosure of documents received by NOAA, relinquishment and surrender of licenses and permits, amendment of regulations, competition of time, uniform hearing procedures, and enforcement under the Act.
[54 FR 548, Jan. 6, 1989]
Subparts J-W [Reserved]

# Subpart X—Pre-enactment Exploration
§ 970.2401
Definitions.
(a)
Engage in exploration
means:
(1) To cause or authorize exploration to occur, including but not limited to a person's actions as a sponsor, principal, or purchaser of exploration services; or
(2) To conduct exploration on behalf of a person described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) [Reserved]
[45 FR 76662, Nov. 20, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 5966, Feb. 9, 1982]
§ 970.2402
Notice of pre-enactment exploration.
(a)
General.
NOAA encourages any United States citizen who engaged in exploration for deep seabed hard mineral resources before June 28, 1980, to file not later than February 1, 1981, a written notice with the Administrator, in care of: The Director, Office of Ocean Minerals and Energy, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, Page Building 1, Suite 410, 2001 Wisconsin Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20235. Such notice shall not constitute an application for a license or permit and shall not confer or confirm any priority of right to any site.
(b)
Content of pre-enactment exploration Notice.
If a notice of exploration commenced prior to June 28, 1980, is filed pursuant to paragraph (a) it should be in writing and include the following:
(1) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the United States citizens responsible for exploration operations to whom notices and orders are to be delivered;
(2) A description of the citizen or citizens engaging in such exploration including:
(i) Whether the citizen is a natural person, partnership, corporation, joint venture, or other form of association;
(ii) The state of incorporation of state in which the partnership or other business entity is registered;
(iii) The name of registered agent and places of business;
(iv) Certification of essential and non-proprietary provisions in articles of incorporation, charter, or articles of association; and
(v) Membership of the association, partnership, or joint venture, including information about the participation of partners and joint venturers, and/or ownership of stock.
(3) A general description of the exploration activities conducted prior to June 28, 1980, including:
(i) The approximate date that the citizen, or predecessor in interest, commenced exploration activities;
(ii) A general estimate of expenditures made on the exploration program prior to June 28, 1980;
(iii) A statement of whether the citizen intends to file an application for an exploration license pursuant to section 101(b)(1)(A) of the Act after NOAA issues regulations implementing section 103(a) of the Act; and
(iv) A statement of whether the citizen intends to continue to engage in exploration as allowed by section 101(b) of the Act, pending a final determination on his application for an exploration license.
(c)
Exclusion of location information.
The information submitted in the notice of pre-enactment exploration required by this section shall
not
include the location of past or future exploration or prospective mine sites.
[45 FR 76662, Nov. 20, 1980]

# Subpart Y—Pre-license Exploration

# Source:
45 FR 76662, Nov. 20, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 970.2501
Notice of pre-license exploration voyages.
(a)
General.
Any United States citizen who schedules an exploration voyage to begin after November 20, 1980 shall file written notice with the Administrator which sets out:
(1) The name, address and telephone number of the citizen;
(2) The anticipated date of commencement of the voyage and its planned duration;
(3) The exploration activities to be carried out on the voyage, including a general description of the equipment and methods to be used, and an estimate of the anticipated extent of seabed disturbance and effluent discharge; and
(4) If the U.S. citizen has not filed a notice of pre-enactment exploration in accordance with § 970.2402, the information specified in § 970.2402(b).
(b)
When and where to file Notice of future exploration
—(1)
When.
(i) Except as allowed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the notice required by paragraph
(a) of this section must be filed not later than 45 days prior to the date on which the exploration voyage is scheduled to begin.
(ii) With respect to filing of the information referred to in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the filing dates specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall prevail over the date specified in § 970.2402(a).
(2)
Exception.
If an exploration voyage is scheduled to begin before January 5, 1981, the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section must be filed on or before December 22, 1980.
(3)
Where.
The notice required by paragraph (a) of this section must be filed in writing with the Administrator, at the address specified in § 970.2402(a) of this part.
§ 970.2502
Post voyage report.
Within 30 days of the conclusion of each exploration voyage, the United States citizen engaging in the voyage shall submit to NOAA a report containing any environmental data or information obtained during that voyage.
§ 970.2503
Suspension of exploration activities.
(a) The Administrator may issue an emergency order, either in writing or orally with written confirmation, requiring the immediate suspension of exploration activities or any particular exploration activity when, in his judgment, immediate suspension of such activity or activities is necessary to prevent a significant adverse effect on the environment. Upon receipt of notice of the emergency order, the United States citizen engaged in the exploration shall immediately cease the activity that is the subject of the emergency order. During any suspension NOAA will consult with the citizen engaged in the activity suspended concerning appropriate measures to remove the cause of suspension. A suspension may be rescinded at any time by written notice from the Administrator upon presentation of satisfactory evidence by the citizen that the activity will no longer threaten a significant adverse effect on the environment.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart Z—Miscellaneous
§ 970.2601
Additional information.
Any United States citizen filing notice under § 970.2402 or § 970.2501 of this part shall provide such additional information as the Administrator may require as necessary and appropriate to implement section 101 of the Act.
[45 FR 76662, Nov. 20, 1980]
Pt. 971

# PART 971—DEEP SEABED MINING REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL RECOVERY PERMITS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
971.100
Purpose.
971.101
Definitions.
971.102
Nature of permits.
971.103
Prohibited activities and restrictions.
971.104
OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Applications
971.200
General.

# Contents
971.201
Statement of financial resources.
971.202
Statement of technological experience and capabilities.
971.203
Commercial recovery plan.
971.204
Environmental and use conflict analysis.
971.205
Vessel safety and documentation.
971.206
Statement of ownership.
971.207
Antitrust information.
971.208
Fee.
971.209
Processing outside the United States.

# Procedures
971.210
Determination whether application is complete for further processing.
971.211
Consultation and cooperation with Federal agencies.
971.212
Public notice, hearing and comment.
971.213
Amendment to an application.
971.214
Consolidated license and permit procedures. [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Certification of Applications
971.300
General.
971.301
Required findings.
971.302
Denial of certification.
971.303
Notice of certification.

# Subpart D—Issuance/Transfer: Terms, Conditions and Restrictions
971.400
General.

# Issuance/Transfer, Modification/Revision; Suspension/Revocation
971.401
Proposal to issue or transfer and proposed terms, conditions and restrictions.
971.402
Consultation and cooperation with Federal and State agencies.
971.403
Freedom of the high seas.
971.404
International obligations of the United States.
971.405
Breach of international peace and security involving armed conflict.
971.406
Environmental effects.
971.407
Safety at sea.
971.408
Processing outside the United States.
971.409
Denial of issuance or transfer.
971.410
Notice of issuance or transfer.
971.411
Objections to terms, conditions and restrictions.
971.412
Changes in permits and permit terms, conditions, and restrictions.
971.413
Revision of a permit.
971.414
Modification of permit terms, conditions, and restrictions.
971.415
Duration of a permit.
971.416
Approval of permit transfers.
971.417
Suspension or modification of activities; suspension or revocation of permits.

# Terms, Conditions and Restrictions
971.418
Diligence requirements.
971.419
Environmental protection requirements.
971.420
Resource conservation requirements.
971.421
Freedom of the high seas requirements.
971.422
Safety at sea requirements.
971.423
Best available technology.
971.424
Monitoring requirements.
971.425
Changes of circumstances.
971.426
Annual report and records maintenance.
971.427
Processing outside the United States.
971.428
Other necessary permits.
971.429
Special terms, conditions and restrictions.
971.430
Other Federal requirements.

# Subpart E—Resource Development
971.500
General.
971.501
Resource assessment, recovery plan, and logical mining unit.
971.502
Conservation of resources.
971.503
Diligent commercial recovery.

# Subpart F—Environmental Effects
971.600
General.
971.601
Environmental requirements.
971.602
Significant adverse environmental effects.
971.603
At-sea monitoring.
971.604
Best available technologies (BAT) and mitigation.
971.605
Stable References Areas. [Reserved]
971.606
Onshore information.

# Subpart G—Safety of Life and Property at Sea
971.700
General.
971.701
Criteria for safety of life and property at sea.

# Subpart H—Miscellaneous
971.800
General.
971.801
Records to be maintained and information to be submitted by licensees and permittees.
971.802
Public disclosure of documents received by NOAA.
971.803
Relinquishment and surrender of licenses and permits.
971.804
Amendment to regulations for conservation, protection of the environment, and safety of life and property at sea.
971.805
Computation of time.

# Subpart I—Uniform Procedures
971.900
Applicability.
971.901
Formal hearing procedures.

# Subpart J—Enforcement
971.1000
General.
971.1001
Assessment procedure.
971.1002
Hearing and appeal procedures.
971.1003
License and permit sanctions.
971.1004
Remission or mitigation of forfeitures.
971.1005
Observers.
971.1006
Proprietary enforcement information.
971.1007
Advance notice of civil actions.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.

# Source:
54 FR 525, Jan. 6, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 971.100
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the responsibilities and authorities of the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) pursuant to Public Law 96-283, the Deep Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act (the Act), to issue to eligible United States citizens permits for the commercial recovery of deep seabed hard minerals.
§ 971.101
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term
(a)
Act
means the Deep Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act (Pub. L. 96-283; 94 Stat. 553; 30 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.
);
(b)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or the Administrator's designee;
(c)
Affected State
means any State with a coastal zone management program approved under Section 306 of the Coastal Zone Management Act, as amended, where coastal zone land and water uses are affected by the issuance of a commercial recovery permit under the provisions of the Act or this part;
(d)
Applicant
means an applicant for a commercial recovery permit pursuant to the Act and this part; as used in subparts H, I and J of this part, “applicant” also means an applicant for an exploration license pursuant to the Act and part 970 of the title. “Applicant” also means a proposed permit transferee;
(e)
Commercial recovery
means—
(1) Any activity engaged in at sea to recover any hard mineral resource at a substantial rate for the primary purpose of marketing or commercially using such resource to earn a net profit, whether or not such net profit is actually earned;
(2) If such recovered hard mineral resource will be processed at sea, such processing; and
(3) If the waste of such activity to recover any hard mineral resource, or of such processing at sea, will be disposed of at sea, such disposal;
(f)
Continental Shelf
means—
(1) The seabed and subsoil of the submarine areas adjacent to the coast, but outside the area of the territorial sea, to a depth of 200 meters or, beyond that limit to where the depth of the superjacent waters admits of the exploitation of the natural resources of such submarine area; and
(2) The seabed and subsoil of similar submarine areas adjacent to the coast of islands;
(g)
Controlling interest,
for purposes of paragraph (v)(3) of this section, means a direct or indirect legal or beneficial interest in or influence over another person arising through ownership of capital stock, interlocking directorates or officers, contractual relations, or other similar means, which substantially affect the independent business behavior of such person;
(h)
Deep seabed
means the seabed, and the subsoil thereof to a depth of ten meters, lying seaward of and outside—
(1) The Continental Shelf of any nation; and
(2) Any area of national resource jurisdiction of any foreign nation, if such area extends beyond the Continental Shelf of such nation and such jurisdiction is recognized by the United States;
(i)
Environment
or
environmental
as used in the definitions of “irreparable harm” and “significant adverse environmental effect” means or pertains to the deep seabed and ocean waters lying at and within the permit area, and in surrounding areas including transportation corridors to the extent that they might be affected by the commercial recovery activities, and the living and non-living resources of those areas;
(j)
Exploration
means—
(1) Any at-sea observation and evaluation activity which has, as its objective, the establishment and documentation of—
(i) The nature, shape, concentration, location, and tenor of a hard mineral resource; and
(ii) The environmental, technical, and other appropriate factors which must be taken into account to achieve commercial recovery; and
(2) The taking from the deep seabed of such quantities of any hard mineral resource as are necessary for the design, fabrication and testing of equipment which is intended to be used in the commercial recovery and processing of such resource;
(k)
Hard mineral resource
means any deposit or accretion on, or just below, the surface of the deep seabed of nodules which include one or more minerals, at least one of which is manganese, nickel, cobalt, or copper;
(l)
Irreparable harm
means significant undesirable effects to the environment occurring after the date of the permit issuance which will not be reversed after cessation or modification of the activities authorized under the permit;
(m)
Licensee
means the holder of a license issued under NOAA regulations to engage in exploration;
(n)
NOAA
means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
(o)
Permittee
means the holder of a permit issued or transferred under this part to engage in commercial recovery;
(p)
Person
means any United States citizen, any individual, and any corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, or other entity organized or existing under the laws of any nation;
(q)
Reciprocating state
means any foreign nation designated as such by the Administrator under section 118 of the Act;
(r)
Recovery plan
or
commercial recovery plan
means the plan submitted by an applicant for a commercial recovery permit pursuant to § 971.203;
(s)
Significant adverse environmental effect
means: (1) Important adverse changes in ecosystem diversity, productivity, or stability of the biological communities within the environment; (2) threat to human health through direct exposure to pollutants or through consumption of exposed aquatic organisms; or (3) important loss of aesthetic, recreational, scientific or economic values;
(t)
State agency
means the agency responsible for implementing the responsibilities of section 306(c)(5) under the Coastal Zone Management Act, as amended, and 15 CFR part 930;
(u)
United States
means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, and any other Commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States; and
(v)
United States citizen
means—
(1) Any individual who is a citizen of the United States;
(2) Any corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, or other entity organized or existing under the laws of any of the United States; and
(3) Any corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, or other entity (whether organized or existing under the laws of any of the United States or a foreign nation) if the controlling interest in such entity is held by an individual or entity described in paragraph (v)(1) or (v)(2).
§ 971.102
Nature of permits.
(a) A permit issued under this part authorizes the holder thereof to engage in commercial recovery within a specific portion of the sea floor consistent with the provisions of the Act and this part and consistent with the specific terms, conditions, and restrictions (TCRs) applied to the permit by the Administrator.
(b) A permit issued under this part is exclusive with respect to the holder thereof as against any other United States citizen or any citizen, national or governmental agency of, or any legal entity organized or existing under the laws of, any reciprocating state.
(c) A valid existing license under 15 CFR part 970 will entitle the holder, if otherwise eligible under the provisions of the Act and implementing regulations, to a permit for commercial recovery from an area selected from within the license area. Such a permit will recognize the right of the holder to recover hard mineral resources, and to own, tranport, use, and sell hard mineral resources recovered under the permit and in accordance with the requirements of the Act and this part.
§ 971.103
Prohibited activities and restrictions.
(a)
Prohibited activities and exceptions.
(1) No United States citizen may engage in any commercial recovery unless authorized to do so under—
(i) A permit issued pursuant to the Act and implementing regulations;
(ii) A license, permit or equivalent authorization issued by a reciprocating state; or
(iii) An international agreement which is in force with respect to the United States.
(2) The prohibitions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section do not apply to any of the following activities:
(i) Scientific research, including that concerning hard mineral resources;
(ii) Mapping, or the taking of any geophysical, geochemical, oceanographic, or atmospheric measurements or random bottom samplings of the deep seabed, if such taking does not significantly alter the surface or subsurface of the seabed or significantly affect the environment;
(iii) The design, construction, or testing of equipment and facilities which will or may be used for exploration or commercial recovery, if such design,
construction or testing is conducted onshore, or does not involve the recovery of any but incidental hard mineral resources;
(iv) The furnishing of machinery, products, supplies, services, or materials for any exploration or commercial recovery conducted under a license or permit issued under the Act and implementing regulations, a license or permit or equivalent authorization issued by a reciprocating state, or any relevant international agreement; and
(v) Activities, other than exploration or commercial recovery activities, of the Federal Government.
(3) No United States citizen may interfere or participate in interference with any activity conducted by any permittee which is authorized to be undertaken under a permit issued by the Administrator to a permittee under the Act or with any activity conducted by the holder of, and authorized to be undertaken under, a license or permit or equivalent authorization issued by a reciprocating state for the commercial recovery of hard mineral resources. For purposes of this section, interference includes physical interference with activities authorized by the Act, this part, and a license or permit issued pursuant thereto; the filing of a specious claim in the United States or any other nation; and any other activity designed to harass, or which has the effect of harassing, persons conducting deep seabed mining activities authorized by law. Interference does not include the exercise of any superior rights granted to United States citizens by the Constitution of the United States, or any Federal or State law, treaty, or agreement or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto.
(4) United States citizens shall exercise their rights on the high seas with reasonable regard for the interests of other states in their exercise of the freedoms of the high seas.
(b)
Restrictions on issuance of permits.
The Administrator will not issue any permit—
(1) After the date on which any relevant international agreement is ratified by and enters into force with respect to the United States, except to the extent that issuance of the permit is not inconsistent with that agreement.
(2) The recovery plan of which, submitted pursuant to the Act and implementing regulations, would apply to an area to which applies, or would conflict with:
(i) Any exploration plan or recovery plan submitted with any pending application to which priority of right for issuance applies under 15 CFR part 970 or this part;
(ii) Any exploration plan or recovery plan associated with any existing license or permit; or
(iii) An equivalent authorization which has been issued, or for which formal notice of application has been submitted, by a reciprocating state prior to the filing date of any relevant application for licenses or permits pursuant to the Act and implementing regulations;
(3) Authorizing commercial recovery within any area of the deep seabed in which exploration is authorized under a valid existing license if such permit is issued to a person other than the licensee for such area;
(4) Which authorizes commercial recovery to commence before January 1, 1988;
(5) The recovery plan for which applies to any area of the deep seabed if, within the 3-year period before the date of application for that permit:
(i) The applicant therefor surrendered or relinquished such area under an exploration plan or recovery plan associated with a previous license or permit issued to such applicant; or
(ii) A permit previously issued to the applicant had an exploration plan or recovery plan which applied to such area and such license or permit was revoked under section 106 of the Act;
(6) Or approve the transfer of a permit, except to a United States citizen; or
(7) That would authorize commercial recovery activities in an area other than for which the applicant therefore holds a valid exploration license under part 970 of this title.
§ 971.104
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements and reporting and recordkeeping requirements contained in this part
were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0648-0170.

# Subpart B—Applications
§ 971.200
General.
(a)
Who may apply; how.
Any United States citizen holding a valid exploration license may apply to the Administrator for issuance of a commercial recovery permit for all or part of the area to which the license applies. Any holder of a commercial recovery permit may apply to the Administrator for transfer of the permit. Applications must be submitted in the form and manner described in this subpart.
(b)
Place, form and copies.
An application for the issuance or transfer of a commerical recovery permit must be in writing, verified and signed by an authorized officer or other authorized representative of the applicant. The application and 25 copies thereof must be submitted to:
Ocean Minerals and Energy Division, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Suite 710, 1825 Connecticut Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20235.
The Administrator may waive in whole or in part, at his discretion, the requirement that 25 copies of an application be filed with NOAA.
(c)
General contents.
The application must contain a proposed commerical recovery plan and the financial, technical, environmental and other information specified in this part, which in total are necessary for the Administrator to make the determinations required by the Act and this part. Although the ultimate standards for determinations under these rules are identical for both transferees and original preexisting licensees, NOAA anticipates that applicants who are transferees will have to supply more information with the application than licensees will [see subsection (e) in this section].
(d)
Identification of requirements.
Each portion of the application should identify the requirements of this part to which it responds.
(e)
Information previously submitted in connection with an exploration license.
Information previously submitted as part of an exploration license application, as well as information submitted during the course of license activities (such as data included in annual reports to NOAA), may be incorporated in the commercial recovery permit application by reference.
(f)
Request for confidential treatment of information.
If an applicant wishes to have any information in its application not be subject to public disclosure, it must so request, at the time of submitting the information, pursuant to § 971.802 which will govern disposition of the request.
(g)
Pre-application consultation.
The Administrator will make NOAA staff available to potential applicants for pre-application consultations on how to respond to the provisions of this part. In appropriate circumstances, the Administrator will provide written confirmation to the applicant of oral guidance resulting from such consultations. Such consultation is required for the purpose of § 971.207. The applicant is encouraged to consult with affected States as early as is practicable [see also §§ 971.213 and 971.606(b)].
(h)
Compliance with Federal consistency requirements.
An applicant for a commercial recovery permit must comply with all necessary requirements, including procedures, pursuant to 15 CFR part 930, subpart D. Applications and other necessary data and information must be transmitted to the designated State agency as prescribed under 15 CFR 930.50.

# Contents
§ 971.201
Statement of financial resources.
(a)
General.
The application must contain information sufficient to demonstrate to the Administrator pursuant to § 971.301 that, upon issuance or transfer of the permit, the applicant will have access to the financial resources to carry out, in accordance with this part, the commercial recovery program set forth in the applicant's commercial recovery plan.
(b)
Specific.
In particular, the information on financial resources is expected to be general in nature but must include the likely sources and timing
of funds to meet the applicant's scheduled expenditures in the recovery plan. These sources may include cash flow, reserves, and outside funding.
§ 971.202
Statement of technological experience and capabilities.
(a)
General.
The application must contain information sufficient to demonstrate to the Administrator pursuant to § 971.301 that, upon issuance or transfer of the permit, the applicant will have the technological capability to carry out, in accordance with the regulations contained in this part, the commercial recovery program set out in the applicant's commercial recovery plan.
(b)
Specific.
In particular, the information submitted pursuant to this section must describe the equipment, knowledge, and skills the applicant possesses, or to which it can demonstrate access [see § 971.200(e)]. The information must include:
(1) A description of the technology or the equipment and methods to be used by the applicant in carrying out each step in the mining process, including nodule collection, retrieval, transfer to ship, environmental monitoring, transport to processing facilities, nodule processing, waste disposal and compliance with applicable water quality standards. The description must include:
(i) An analysis of the performance of experimental systems, sub-systems, or analogous machinery;
(ii) The rationale for extrapolating from test results to commercial mining. The more test data offered with the application the less analysis will be expected; and
(iii) Anticipated system reliability within the context of anticipated production time lost through equipment failure.
(2) A functional description of the types of technical persons on whom the applicant will rely to operate its equipment.
§ 971.203
Commercial recovery plan.
(a)
General.
The application must include a proposed commercial recovery plan which describes the applicant's projected commercial recovery activities, in a general way, for the twenty year period to be covered by the proposed permit. Although preliminary and subject to change, the plan must be more detailed for that portion of the permit term leading up to the initiation of commercial recovery. The plan must include sufficient information for the Administrator, pursuant to this part, to make the necessary determinations pertaining to the certification and issuance or transfer of a permit and to the development and enforcement of the TCRs for a permit.
(b)
Specific.
The plan must include:
(1) A description of the activities proposed to be carried out during the period of the permit;
(2) The intended schedule of commercial recovery (see “Diligent commercial recovery,” § 971.503);
(3) Environmental safeguards and monitoring systems, which must take into account requirements under subpart F of this part, including best available technologies (BAT) (§ 971.604) and monitoring (§ 971.603);
(4) Details of the area or areas proposed for commercial recovery, which meet requirements for diligence (§ 971.503) and conservation of resources pursuant to subpart E (especially § 971.502);
(5) A resource assessment of the area or areas proposed for commercial recovery which meets the requirements for resource assessment and logical mining unit (§ 971.501);
(6) A description of the methods and technology to be used for commercial recovery and processing (see § 971.202(b)(1)); and
(7) The methods to be used for disposal of wastes from recovery and processing, including the areas for disposal and identification of any toxic substances in wastes.
§ 971.204
Environmental and use conflict analysis.
(a)
Environmental information submission.
The application must be supported by sufficient marine environmental information for the Administrator to prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) on the proposed mining activities, and to determine the appropriate permit TCRs based on environmental characteristics of the requested minesite. The Administrator
may require the submission of additional data, in the event he determines that the basis for a suitable EIS, or a determination of appropriate TCRs, is not available.
(b)(1) In preparing the EIS, the Administrator will attempt to characterize the environment in such a way as to provide a basis for judging the potential for significant adverse effects or irreparable harm triggered by commercial mining (see subpart F). In compiling these data, the Administrator will utilize existing information including the relevant license EIS, additional exploration data acquired by the applicant, and other data in the public domain.
(2) The EIS must present adequate physical, chemical, and biological information for the permit area. If the permit area lies within the area of NOAA's Deep Ocean Mining Environmental Study (DOMES), the parameters listed in NOAA's Technical Guidance Document pertaining to the upper and lower water column should be included. Specifically, these parameters include:
(i) Upper water column—
Nutrients
Endangered species
Salinity, temperature, density
Currents.
(ii) Lower water column and seafloor—
Currents
Suspended particulate matter dispersion
Sediment characteristics (mineralogy, particle size, shape and density, and water content)
Topography
Benthos.
(3) For a permit area outside the DOMES area, the applicant is encouraged to consult with NOAA at the earliest opportunity in order to determine the specific parameters to be measured based on the location and specific environmental characteristics of the permit area. The Administrator, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and with the assistance of other appropriate Federal agencies, may determine that a programmatic EIS is required for any new area.
(c) The application must include a monitoring plan for test mining and at-sea commercial recovery activities which meets the objectives and requirements of § 971.603.
(d)
Use conflict analysis.
The application must include information known to the applicant on other uses of the proposed mining area to support the Administrator's determination regarding potential use conflicts between commercial mining activities and those activities of other nations or of other U.S. citizens.
(e)
Onshore information.
Because of NEPA requirements, the Administrator must include in the EIS on the proposed permit the complete spectrum of activities resulting from the issuance of a permit. Therefore, onshore information including the location and operation of nodule processing facilities must be submitted with the application in accordance with the details in § 971.606.
§ 971.205
Vessel safety and documentation.
In order to provide a basis for the necessary determinations with respect to the safety of life and property at sea, pursuant to § 971.407, § 971.422 and Subpart G of this part, the application must contain the following information for vessels used in commercial recovery, except for those vessels under 300 gross tons which are engaged in oceanographic research:
(a)
U.S. flag vessel.
All mining ships and at least one of the transport ships used by each permittee must be documented under the laws of the United States. To the extent that the applicant knows which United States flag vessels it will use, it must include with its application copies of the vessels' current valid Coast Guard Certificates of Inspection.
(b)
Foreign flag vessels.
To the extent that the applicant knows which foreign flag vessel(s) it will be using for other purposes, the application must include evidence of the following:
(1) That any foreign flag vessel whose flag state is party to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 (SOLAS 74) possesses current valid SOLAS 74 certificates;
(2) That any foreign flag vessel whose flag state is not party to SOLAS 74 but
is party to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1960 (SOLAS 60) possesses current valid SOLAS 60 certificates; and
(3) That any foreign flag vessel whose flag state is not a party to either SOLAS 74 or SOLAS 60 meets all applicable structural and safety requirements contained in the published rules of a member of the International Association of Classification Societies (IACS).
(c)
Supplemental certificates.
If the applicant does not know at the time of submitting an application which vessels it will be using, it must submit the applicable certification for each vessel before the cruise on which it will be used.
§ 971.206
Statement of ownership.
(a)
General.
The application must include sufficient information to demonstrate that the applicant is a United States citizen.
(b)
Specific.
In particular, the application must include:
(1) Name, address, and telephone number of the United States citizen responsible for commercial recovery operations;
(2) A description of the citizen or citizens engaging in commercial recovery, including:
(i) Whether the citizen is a natural person, partnership, corporation, joint venture, or other form of association;
(ii) The state of incorporation or state in which the partnership or other business entity is registered;
(iii) The name and place of business of the registered agent or equivalent representative to whom notices and orders are to be delivered;
(iv) Copies of all essential and nonproprietary provisions in articles of incorporation, charter or articles of association; and
(v) The name of each member of the association, partnership, or joint venture, including information about the participation and/or ownership of stock of each partner or joint venturer.
§ 971.207
Antitrust information.
In order to support the antitrust review referenced in § 971.211, the application must contain information sufficient, in the applicant's view and based on preapplication consultations pursuant to § 971.200(g), to identify the applicant and describe any significant existing market share it has with respect to the mining or marketing of the metals proposed to be recovered under the permit.
§ 971.208
Fee.
(a)
General.
Section 104 of the Act provides that no application for the issuance or transfer of a permit will be certified unless the applicant pays to NOAA an administrative fee which reflects the reasonable administrative costs incurred in reviewing and processing the application.
(b)
Amount.
A fee payment of $100,000, payable to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, must accompany each application. If the administrative costs of reviewing and processing the application are significantly less than or in excess of $100,000, the Administrator, after determining the amount of the under- or over-charge, as applicable, will refund the difference or require the applicant to pay the additional amount before issuance or transfer of the permit. In the case of an application for transfer of a permit to, or for a significant change to a permit held by, an entity which has previously been found qualified for a permit, the Administrator may reduce the fee in advance by an appropriate amount which reflects costs avoided by reliance on previous findings made in relation to the proposed transferee.
§ 971.209
Processing outside the United States.
(a) Except as provided in this section and § 971.408, the processing of hard minerals recovered pursuant to a permit shall be conducted within the U.S., provided that the President or his designee does not determine that this restriction contravenes the overriding national interests of the United States.
(b) If foreign processing is proposed, the applicant shall submit a justification demonstrating the basis for a finding pursuant to § 971.408(a)(1). The justification shall include an analysis of each factor which the applicant considers essential to its conclusion that
processing at a site within the U.S. is not economically viable.
(c) If the Administrator determines that the justification provided by the applicant is insufficient, or if the Administrator receives during the public comment or hearing period what the Administrator determines to be a serious alternative U.S. processing site proposal, the Administrator may require the applicant to supply, within a specified reasonable time, additional information relevant to the § 971.408(a)(1) finding.
(d) The applicant must include in its application satisfactory assurances that such resources after processing, to the extent of the permittee's ownership therein, will be returned to the United States for domestic use if the Administrator determines pursuant to § 971.408 that the national interest necessitates such return. Assurances must include proposed arrangements with the host country.

# Procedures
§ 971.210
Determination whether application is complete for further processing.
Upon receipt of an application, the Administrator will review it to determine whether it includes information specifically identifiable with and fully responsive to each requirement in § 971.201 through § 971.209. The Administrator will notify the applicant whether the application is complete within 60 days after it is received. The notice will identify, if applicable, in what respects the application is not complete, and will specify the information which the applicant must submit in order to make it complete, why the additional information is necessary, and a reasonable date by which the application must be completed. Application processing will not begin until the Administrator determines that the application is complete.
§ 971.211
Consultation and cooperation with Federal agencies.
(a) Promptly after receipt of an application that the Administrator has determined pursuant to § 971.210 is complete, the Administrator will distribute a copy of the application to every Federal agency or department which, pursuant to section 103(e) of the Act, has identified programs or activities within its statutory responsibilities which would be affected by the activities proposed in the application (e.g., the Departments of State, Transportation, Justice, Interior, Defense, Treasury and Labor, as well as the Environmental Protection Agency, Federal Trade Commission, International Trade Administration and National Science Foundation). Based on its legal responsibilities and authorities, each such agency or department may, not later than 60 days after it receives a copy of the application, recommend certification of the application, issuance or transfer of the permit, or denial of such certification, issuance or transfer. The advice or recommendation by the Attorney General or Federal Trade Commission on antitrust review, pursuant to section 103(d) of the Act, must be submitted within 90 days after their receipt of a copy of the application.
(b) NOAA will use this process of consultation and cooperation to facilitate necessary Federal decisions on proposed commercial recovery activities, pursuant to the mandate of section 103(e) of the Act to reduce the number of separate actions required to satisfy Federal agencies' statutory responsibilities. The Administrator will not issue or transfer the permit during the 90 day period after receipt by the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission except upon written confirmation of the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission that neither intends to submit further comments or recommendations with respect to the application.
(c) In any case in which a Federal agency or department recommends a denial, it must set forth in detail the manner in which the application does not comply with any law or regulation within its area of responsibility and how the application may be amended, or how TCRs might be added to the permit, to assure compliance with such law or regulation.
(d) NOAA will cooperate with such agencies and with the applicant with the goal of resolving any concerns raised and satisfying the statutory responsibilities of these agencies.
(e) If the Administrator decides to issue or transfer a permit with respect to which denial of the issuance or transfer has been recommended by the Attorney General or the Federal Trade Commission, or to issue or transfer a permit without imposing TCRs recommended by the Attorney General or the Federal Trade Commission, as appropriate, the Administrator will, before or at issuance or transfer of the permit, notify the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission of the reasons for his decision.
§ 971.212
Public notice, hearing and comment.
(a)
Notice and comments.
The Administrator will publish in the
Federal Register,
for each complete application for issuance or transfer of a commercial recovery permit, notice that the application has been received. Subject to § 971.802, interested persons will be allowed to examine the materials relevant to the application, and will have at least 60 days after publication of notice to submit written comments to the Administrator.
(b)
Hearings.
After preparation of the draft environmental impact statement (EIS) on an application, the Administrator will hold a public hearing on the application and the draft EIS in an appropriate location and may employ additional methods he/she deems appropriate to inform interested persons about each application and to invite comments thereon. A hearing will be conducted in any State in which a processing plant or any of its ancillary facilities (such as a marine terminal or a waste disposal facility) are proposed to be located.
(c) If the Administrator determines there exist one or more specific and material factual issues which require resolution by formal processes, at least one formal hearing will be held in the District of Columbia metropolitan area in accordance with the provisions of Subpart I of this part. The record developed in any such formal hearing will be part of the basis of the Administrator's decisions on an application.
(d) Hearings held pursuant to this section and other procedures will be consolidated, if practicable, with hearings held and procedures employed by other Federal and State agencies.
§ 971.213
Amendment to an application.
After an application has been submitted to the Administrator, but before a determination is made on the issuance or transfer of a permit, the applicant must submit an amendment to the application if there is a significant change in the circumstances represented in the original application which affects the requirements of this subpart. Applicants should consult with NOAA to determine if changes in circumstances are sufficiently significant to require submission of an amendment. The application, as amended, would then serve as the basis for determinations by the Administrator under this part. For each amendment judged by the Administrator to be significant, the Administrator will provide a copy of that amendment to each other Federal agency and department which received a copy of the original application, and also will provide for public notice, hearing and comment on the amendment pursuant to § 971.212. After the issuance or transfer of a permit, any revision of the permit will be made pursuant to § 971.413. Any amendment or modification which would cause coastal zone effects substantially different than those originally reviewed by the state agency would be subject to Federal consistency review as prescribed in 15 CFR part 930.
§ 971.214
Consolidated license and permit procedures. [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Certification of Applications
§ 971.300
General.
(a) Certification is an intermediate step between receipt of an application for issuance or transfer of a permit and actual issuance or transfer. It is a determination which focuses on the eligibility of the applicant.
(b) Before the Administrator may certify an application for issuance or transfer of a permit, the Administrator must determine that issuance of the
permit would not violate any of the restrictions in § 971.103(b). The Administrator also must make written determinations with respect to the requirements with respect to the requirements set forth in § 971.301.
(c) To the maximum extent possible, the Administrator will endeavor to complete certification within 100 days after receipt of a complete application. If final certification or denial of certification has not occurred within 100 days after receipt of the application, the Administrator will inform the applicant in writing of the pending unresolved issues, the efforts to resolve them, and an estimate of the time required to do so.
§ 971.301
Required findings.
Before the Administrator may certify an application for a commercial recovery permit, the Administrator must:
(a) Approve the size and location of the commercial recovery area selected by the applicant, and this approval will occur unless the Administrator determines that (1) the area is not a logical mining unit under § 971.501, or (2) commercial recovery activities in the proposed area would result in a significant adverse environmental effect which cannot be avoided by imposition of reasonable restrictions; and
(b) Find that the applicant—
(1) Has demonstrated that, upon issuance or transfer of the permit, the applicant will be financially responsible to meet all obligations which may be required to engage in its proposed commercial recovery activities;
(2) Has demonstrated that, upon permit issuance or transfer, it will possess, or have access to, the technological capability to engage in the proposed commercial recovery;
(3) Has satisfactorily fulfilled all past obligations under any license or permit previously issued or transferred to the applicant under the Act;
(4) Has a commercial recovery plan which meets the requirements of § 971.203; and
(5) Has paid the permit fee specified in § 971.208.
§ 971.302
Denial of certification.
(a) The Administrator may deny certification of an application if the Administrator finds that the requirements of this subpart, or the requirements for issuance or transfer under § 971.403 through § 971.408, have not been met.
(b) When the Administrator proposes to deny certification the Administrator will send to the applicant, via certified mail, return receipt requested, and publish in the
Federal Register,
written notice of intention to deny certification. The notice will include:
(1) The basis upon which the Administrator proposes to deny certification; and
(2) If the basis for the proposed denial is a deficiency which the Administrator believes the applicant can correct:
(i) The action believed necessary to correct the deficiency; and
(ii) The time within which any correctable deficiency must be corrected (not to exceed 180 days except as specified by the Administrator for good cause).
(c) The Administrator will deny certification:
(1) On the 30th day after the date the notice is received by the applicant, under paragraph (b) of the section, unless before the 30th day the applicant files with the Administrator a written request for an administrative review of the proposed denial; or
(2) On the last day of the period established under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) in which the applicant must correct a deficiency, if that deficiency has not been corrected before that day and an administrative review requested pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) is not pending or in progress.
(d) If a timely request for administrative review of the proposed denial is made by the applicant under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Administrator will promptly begin a formal hearing. If the proposed denial is the result of a correctable deficiency, the administrative review will proceed concurrently with any attempts to correct the deficiency, unless the parties agree otherwise or the administrative law judge orders differently.
(e) If the Administrator denies certification, he will send to the applicant written notice of the denial, including the reasons therefor.
(f) Any final determination by the Administrator granting or denying certification is subject to judicial review as provided in chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code.
§ 971.303
Notice of certification.
Upon making a final determination to certify an application for a commercial recovery permit, the Administrator will promptly send written notice of the determination to the applicant.

# Subpart D—Issuance/Transfer: Terms, Conditions and Restrictions
§ 971.400
General.
(a)
Proposal.
After certification of an application pursuant to subpart C of this part, the Administrator will proceed with a proposal to issue or transfer a permit for the commercial recovery activities described in the application.
(b)
Terms conditions and restrictions.
(1) Within 180 days after certification (or such longer period as the Administrator may establish for good cause shown in writing), the Administrator will propose terms and conditions for, and restrictions on, the proposed commercial recovery which are consistent with the provisions of the Act and this part as set forth in §§ 971.418 through 971.430. Proposed and final TCRs will be uniform in all permits, except to the extent that differing physical and environmental conditions and/or mining methods require the establishment of special TCRs for the conservation of natural resources, protection of the environment, or the safety of life and property at sea. The Administrator will propose TCRs in writing to the applicant, and public notice thereof will be provided pursuant to § 971.401. The proposed TCRs will be included with the draft of the EIS on permit issuance.
(2) If the Administrator does not propose TCRs within 180 days after certification, the Administrator will notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for delay and of the approximate date on which the proposed TCRs will be completed.
(c)
Findings.
Before issuing or transferring a commercial recovery permit, the Administrator must make written findings in accordance with the requirements of § 971.403 through § 971.408. These findings will be made after considering all information submitted with respect to the application and proposed issuance or transfer. The Administrator will make a final determination of issuance or transfer of a permit, and will publish a final EIS on that action, within 180 days (or such longer period of time as the Administrator may establish for good cause shown in writing) following the date on which proposed TCRs and the draft EIS are published.

# Issuance/Transfer, Modification/Revision; Suspension/Revocation
§ 971.401
Proposal to issue or transfer and proposed terms, conditions and restrictions.
(a)
Notice and comment.
The Administrator will publish in the
Federal Register
notice of each proposal to issue or transfer, including notice of a draft EIS, and of proposed terms and conditions for, and restrictions on, a commercial recovery permit that will be included with the draft EIS [see § 971.400(b)]. Subject to § 971.802, interested persons will be permitted to examine the materials relevant to such proposals. Interested persons and affected States will have at least 60 days after publication of such notice to submit written comments to the Administrator.
(b)
Hearings.
(1) The Administrator will hold the public hearing(s) required by § 971.212(b) in an appropriate location and may employ such additional methods as he deems appropriate to inform interested persons about each proposal and to invite their comments thereon. A copy of the notice and draft EIS will be provided to the affected State agency. Information provided by NOAA may be used to supplement information provided by the applicant, however it will not affect schedules for State agency review and decisions with respect to consistency determinations as required in 15 CFR part 930, subpart D.
(2) If the Administrator determines there exist one or more specific and material factual issues which require resolution by formal processes, at least
one formal hearing, which may be consolidated with a hearing held by another agency, will be held in the District of Columbia metropolitan area in accordance with the provisions of subpart I of this part. The record developed in any such formal hearing will be part of the basis for the Administrator's decisions on issuance or transfer of, and on TCRs for, the permit.
§ 971.402
Consultation and cooperation with Federal and State agencies.
Before issuance or transfer of a commercial recovery permit, the Administrator will conclude any consultations in cooperation with other Federal and State agencies which were initiated pursuant to §§ 971.211 and 971.200(g). These consultations will be held to assure compliance with, as applicable and among other statutes, the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, as amended, the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, and the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended. The Administrator also will consult, before any issuance, transfer, modification or renewal of a permit, with any affected Regional Fishery Management Council established pursuant to section 302 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 1852) if the activities undertaken pursuant to the permit could adversely affect any fishery within the Fishery Conservation Zone (now known as the Exclusive Economic Zone), or any anadromous species or Continental Shelf fishery resource subject to the exclusive management authority of the United States beyond that zone.
§ 971.403
Freedom of the high seas.
(a) Before issuing or transferring a commercial recovery permit, the Administrator must find the recovery proposed in the application will not unreasonably interfere with the exercise of the freedoms of the high seas by other nations, as recognized under general principles of international law.
(b) In making this finding, the Administrator will recognize that commercial recovery of hard mineral resources of the deep seabed is a freedom of the high seas. In the exercise of this right, each permittee shall act with reasonable regard for the interests of other nations in their exercise of the freedoms of the high seas.
(c)(1) In the event of a conflict between the commercial recovery program of an applicant or permittee and a competing use of the high seas by another nation or its nationals, the Administrator, in consultation and cooperation with the Department of State and other interested agencies, will enter into negotiations with that nation to resolve the conflict. To the maximum extent possible the Administrator will endeavor to resolve the conflict in a manner that will allow both uses to take place such that neither will unreasonably interfere with the other.
(2) If both uses cannot be conducted harmoniously in the area subject to the recovery plan, the Administrator will decide whether to issue or transfer the permit.
§ 971.404
International obligations of the United States.
Before issuing or transferring a commercial recovery permit, the Administrator must find that the commercial recovery proposed in the application will not conflict with any international obligation of the United States established by any treaty or international convention in force with respect to the United States.
§ 971.405
Breach of international peace and security involving armed conflict.
Before issuing or transferring a commercial recovery permit, the Administrator must find that the recovery proposed in the application will not create a situation which may reasonably be expected to lead to a breach of international peace and security involving armed conflict.
§ 971.406
Environmental effects.
Before issuing or transferring a commercial recovery permit, the Administrator must find that the commercial recovery proposed in the application cannot reasonably be expected to result in a significant adverse environmental effect, taking into account the analyses and information in any applicable EIS and any TCRs associated
with the permit. This finding also will be based upon the requirements in subpart F. However, as also noted in subpart F, if a determination on this question cannot be made on the basis of available information, and it is found that irreparable harm will not occur during a period when an approved monitoring program is undertaken to further examine the significant adverse environmental effect issue, a permit may be granted, subject to modification or suspension and, if necessary and appropriate, revocation pursuant to § 971.417(a), or subject to emergency suspension pursuant to § 971.417(h).
§ 971.407
Safety at sea.
Before issuing or transferring a commercial recovery permit, the Administrator must find that the commercial recovery proposed in the application will not pose an inordiante threat to the safety of life and property at sea. This finding will be based on the requirements in § 971.205 and subpart G.
§ 971.408
Processing outside the United States.
(a) Before issuing or transferring a commercial recovery permit which authorizes processing outside the U.S., the Administrator must find, after the opportunity for an agency hearing required by § 971.212(b), that:
(1) The processing of the quantity concerned of hard mineral resource at a place other than within the United States is necessary for the economic viability of the commercial recovery activities of the permittee; and
(2) Satisfactory assurances have been given by the permittee that such resources, after processing, to the extent of the permittee's ownership therein, will be returned to the United States for domestic use, if the Administrator so requires after determining that the national interest necessitates such return.
(b) At or after permit issuance the Administrator may determine, or revise a prior determination, that the national interest necessitates return to the U.S. of a specified amount of hard mineral resource recovered pursuant to the permit and authorized to be processed outside the United States. Considerations in making this determination may include:
(1) The national interest in an adequate supply of minerals;
(2) The foreign policy interests of the United States; and
(3) The multi-national character of deep seabed mining operations.
(c) As appropriate, TCRs will incorporate provisions to implement the decision of the Administrator made pursuant to this section.
(d) Environmental considerations of the proposed activity will be addressed in accordance with § 971.606(c).
§ 971.409
Denial of issuance or transfer.
(a) The Administrator may deny issuance or transfer of a permit if he finds that the applicant or the proposed commercial recovery activities do not meet the rquirements of this part for the issuance or transfer of a permit.
(b) When the Administrator proposes to deny issuance or transfer, he will send to the applicant, via certified mail, return receipt requested, and publish in the
Federal Register,
written notice of his intention to deny issuance or transfer. The notice will include:
(1) The basis upon which the Administrator proposes to deny issuance or transfer; and
(2) If the basis for the proposed denial is a deficiency which the Administrator believes the applicant can correct:
(i) The action believed necessary to correct the deficiency; and
(ii) The time within which any correctable deficiency must be corrected (not to exceed 180 days except as specified by the Administrator for good cause).
(c) The Administrator will deny issuance or transfer:
(1) On the 30th day after the date the notice is received by the applicant under paragraph (b) of this section, unless before the 30th day the applicant files with the Administrator a written request for an administrative review of the proposed denial; or
(2) On the last day of the period established under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) in
which the applicant must correct a deficiency, if the deficiency has not been corrected before that day and an administrative review requested pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) is not pending or in progress.
(d) If a timely request for administrative review of the proposed denial is made by the applicant under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Administrator will promptly begin a formal hearing in accordance with subpart I. If the proposed denial is the result of a correctable deficiency, the administrative review will proceed concurrently with any attempt to correct the deficiency, unless the parties agree otherwise or the administrative law judge orders differently.
(e) If the Administrator denies issuance or transfer, the Administrator will send to the applicant written notice of final denial, including the reasons therefor.
(f) Any final determination by the Administrator granting or denying issuance or transfer of a permit is subject to judicial review as provided in chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code.
§ 971.410
Notice of issuance or transfer.
If the Administrator finds that the requirements of this subpart have been met, he will issue or transfer the permit along with the appropriate TCRs. Notice of issuance or transfer will be made in writing to the applicant and published in the
Federal Register.
§ 971.411
Objections to terms, conditions and restrictions.
(a) The permittee may file a notice of objection to any TCR in the permit. The permittee may object on the grounds that any TCR is inconsistent with the Act or this part, or on any other grounds which may be raised under applicable provisions of law. If the permittee does not file notice of an objection within the 60-day period immediately following the permittee's receipt of the notice of issuance or transfer under § 971.410, the permittee will be deemed conclusively to have accepted the TCRs in the permit.
(b) Any notice of objection filed under paragraph (a) of this section must be in writing, must indicate the legal or factual basis for the objection, and must provide information relevant to any underlying factual issues deemed by the permittee as necessary to the Administrator's decision upon the objection.
(c) Within 90 days after receipt of the notice of objection, the Administrator will act on the objection and publish in the
Federal Register,
as well as provide to the permittee, written notice of the decision.
(d) If, after the Administrator takes final action on an objection, the permittee demonstrates that a dispute remains on a material issue of fact, the Administrator will provide for a formal hearing which will proceed in accordance with Subpart I of this part.
(e) Any final determination by the Administrator on an objection to TCRs in a permit, after the formal hearing provided in paragraph (d), is subject to judicial review as provided in chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code.
§ 971.412
Changes in permits and permit terms, conditions, and restrictions.
(a) During the duration of a commercial recovery permit, changes in the permit or its associated commercial recovery plan may be initiated by either the permittee or the Administrator.
(b) A significant change is one which, if approved, would result in:
(1) An increase of more than five percent in the size of the commercial recovery area; or
(2) A change in the location of five percent or more of the commercial recovery area.
(c) A major change is one affecting one or more of:
(1) The bases for certifying the original application pursuant to § 971.301;
(2) The bases for issuing or transferring the permit pursuant to § 971.403 through § 971.408;
(3) The TCRs issued as part of the permit pursuant to §§ 971.418 through 971.430; or
(4) The ownership of a permittee (or the membership of the joint venture, partnership or other entity on whose behalf the permit was issued); and which change is sufficiently broad in scope to raise a question as to:
(i) The permittee's ability to meet the requirements of the sections cited in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section;
(ii) The sufficiency of the TCRs to accomplish their intended purpose; or
(iii) The antitrust characteristic of the permittee.
(d) A minor change is one that is clearly more modest in scope than the changes described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
(e) A permittee may not implement a significant or major change, as defined in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, until an application for revision of the permit or its associated commercial recovery plan has been approved by the Administrator. However, advance notice of proposed major changes in a permittee's corporate membership or legal structure is not required, unless practicable, but the Administrator expects prompt notification of the occurrence of such a major change.
(f) A proposed significant or major change, as defined in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, may trigger the need for additional review, under the Federal consistency provisions of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended.
§ 971.413
Revision of a permit.
(a) During the term of a commercial recovery permit, the permittee may submit to the Administrator an application for a revision of the permit or the commercial recovery plan associated with it to accommodate changes desired by the permittee. In some cases it may be advisable to recognize at the time of filing the original permit application that, although the essential information for issuing or transferring a permit as specified in § 971.201 through § 971.209 must be included in such application, some details may have to be provided in the future in the form of a revision. In such instances, the Administrator may issue or transfer a permit which would authorize commercial recovery activities and plans only to the extent described in the application.
(b) An application by a permittee for a revision of a permit or its associated commercial recovery plan involving a significant change, as defined in § 971.412(b), must be followed by the full application procedures in this part, including a public hearing.
(c) An application by a permittee for a revision of a permit or its associated commercial recovery plan involving a major change, as defined in § 971.412(c) (See also § 971.425 of this part), will be acted on after notice thereof is published by the Administrator in the
Federal Register
with a 60-day opportunity for public comment and consultation with appropriate Federal agencies.
(d)(1) The Administrator will approve a revision if the Administrator finds in writing that the revision will comply with the requirements of the Act and this part.
(2) Notice of the Administrator's decision on the proposed revision will be provided to the permittee in writing and published in the
Federal Register.
(e) A permittee may notify the Administrator of minor changes, as defined in § 971.412(d), subsequently in the annual report (See § 971.801 of this part).
(f) If the relative importance of the change is unclear to the permittee, the Administrator should be notified in advance so that the Administrator can decide whether a revision in accordance with § 971.412(e) is required.
§ 971.414
Modification of permit terms, conditions, and restrictions.
(a) After issuance or transfer of any permit, the Administrator, after consultation with appropriate Federal agencies and the permittee, may modify the TCRs in a permit for the following purposes:
(1) To avoid unreasonable interference with the interests of other nations in their exercise of the freedoms of the high seas, as recognized under general principles of international law. This determination will take into account the considerations listed in § 971.403;
(2) If relevant data and information (including, but not limited to, data resulting from activities under a permit) indicate that modification is required to protect the quality of the environment or to promote the safety of life and property at sea;
(3) To avoid a conflict with any international obligation of the United States, established by any treaty or convention in force with respect to the United States, as determined in writing by the President; or
(4) To avoid any situation which may reasonably be expected to lead to a breach of international peace and security involving armed conflict, as determined in writing by the President.
(b) A proposal by the Administrator to modify the TCRs in a permit is significant and must be followed by the full application procedures in this part, including a public hearing, if it would result in either of the changes identified in § 971.412(b).
(c) All proposed modifications other than those described in paragraph (b) of this section will be acted on after the Administrator provides:
(1) Written notice of the proposal to the permittee; and
(2) Publication of this proposal in the
Federal Register
with a 60-day opportunity for comment.
(d)(1) The Administrator will effect a modification of the TCRs if the Administrator finds in writing that the proposed modification will comply with the requirements of the Act and this part.
(2) Upon adopting a TCR modification, the Administrator shall issue to the permittee an amended permit including the modified TCRs, and shall publish notice of issuance in the
Federal Register.
(3) The procedures for objection to modification of the TCRs are the same as those for objection to a TCR under § 971.411 of this part.
§ 971.415
Duration of a permit.
(a) Unless suspended or revoked pursuant to §§ 971.406 and 971.417, each commercial recovery permit will be issued for a period of 20 years and for so long thereafter as hard mineral resources are recovered annually in commercial quantities from the area listed in the permit.
(b) If the permittee has substantially complied with the permit and its associated recovery plan and requests an extension of the permit, the Administrator will extend the permit with appropriate TCRs, consistent with the Act, for so long thereafter as hard mineral resources are recovered annually in commercial quantities from the area to which the recovery plan associated with the permit applies. The Administrator may make allowance for deviation from the recovery plan for good cause, such as significantly changed market conditions. However, a request for extension must be accompanied by an amended recovery plan to govern the activities by the permittee during the extended period.
(c) Successive extensions may be requested, and will be granted by the Administrator, based on the criteria specified in paragraphs (a) and (b).
§ 971.416
Approval of permit transfers.
(a) The Administrator may transfer a permit after a written request by the permittee. After a permittee submits a transfer request to the Administrator, the proposed transferee will be deemed an applicant for a commercial recovery permit, and will be subject to the requirements and procedures of this part.
(b) The Administrator will transfer a permit if the proposed transferee is a United States citizen and proposed commercial recovery activities meet the requirements of the Act and this part, and if the proposed transfer is in the public interest. The Administrator will presume that the transfer is in the public interest if it meets the requirements of the Act and this part. In case of mere change in the form or ownership of a permittee, the Administrator may waive relevant determinations for requirements for which no changes have occurred since the preceding application.
§ 971.417
Suspension or modification of activities; suspension or revocation of permits.
(a) The Administrator may:
(1) In addition to, or in lieu of, the imposition of any civil penalty under subpart J of this part, or in addition to the imposition of any fine under subpart J, suspend or revoke any permit issued under this part, or suspend or modify any particular activities under such a permit, if the permittee substantially fails to comply with any provision of the Act, this part, or any
term, condition or restriction of the permit; and
(2) Suspend or modify particular activities under any permit, if the President determines that such suspension or modification is necessary:
(i) To avoid any conflict with any international obligation of the United States established by any treaty or convention in force with respect to the United States; or
(ii) To avoid any situtation which may reasonably be expected to lead to a breach of international peace and security involving armed conflict.
(b) Any action taken by the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) will proceed pursuant to the procedures in § 971.1003. Any action taken in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) will proceed pursuant to paragraphs (c) through (i) of this section, other than paragraph (h)(2).
(c) Prior to taking any action specified in paragraph (a)(2) the Administrator will publish in the
Federal Register,
and send to the permittee, written notice of the proposed action. The notice will include:
(1) The basis of the proposed action; and
(2) If the basis for the proposed action is a deficiency which the Administrator believes the permittee can correct:
(i) The action necessary to correct the deficiency; and
(ii) The time within which any correctable deficiency must be corrected (not to exceed 180 days except as specified by the Administrator for good cause).
(d) The Administrator will take the proposed action:
(1) On the 30th day after the date notice is sent to the permittee, under paragraph (c) of this section, unless before the 30th day the permittee files with the Administrator a written request for an administrative review of the proposed action; or
(2) On the last day of the period established under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) in which the permittee must correct the deficiency, if such deficiency has not been corrected before that day and an administrative review requested pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) is not pending or in progress.
(e) If a timely request for administrative review of the proposed denial is made by the permittee under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Administrator will promptly begin a formal hearing in accordance with subpart I of this part. If the proposed denial is the result of a correctable deficiency, the administrative review will proceed concurrently with any attempt to correct the deficiency, unless the parties agree otherwise or the administrative law judge orders differently.
(f) The Administrator will serve on the permittee, and publish in the
Federal Register,
written notice of the action taken including the reasons therefor.
(g) Any final determination by the Administrator to take the proposed action is subject to judicial review as provided in chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code.
(h) The issuance of any notice of proposed action under this section will not affect the continuation of commercial recovery activities by a permittee. The provisions of paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and the first sentence of this paragraph (h) of this section will not apply when:
(1) The President determines by Executive Order that an immediate suspension or modification of particular activities under that permit, is necessary for the reasons set forth in paragraph (a)(2); or
(2) The Administrator determines that immediate suspension of such a permit or immediate suspension or modification of particular activities under a permit, is necessary to prevent a significant adverse environmental effect or to preserve the safety of life or property at sea, and the Administrator issues an emergency order in accordance with § 971.1003(d)(4).
(i) The Administrator will immediately rescind the suspension order as soon as he has determined that the cause for suspension has been removed.

# Terms, Conditions and Restrictions
§ 971.418
Diligence requirements.
The TCRs in each commercial recovery permit must include provisions to assure diligent development consistent with § 971.503, including a requirement that recovery at commercial scale be
underway within ten years from the date of permit issuance unless that deadline is extended by the Administrator for good cause.
§ 971.419
Environmental protection requirements.
(a) Each commercial recovery permit must contain TCRs established by the Administrator pursuant to subpart F which prescribe actions the permittee must take in the conduct of commercial recovery activities to assure protection of the environment. Factors to be taken into account regarding the potential for significant adverse environmental effects are discussed in §§ 971.601 and 971.602.
(b) Before establishing the TCRs pertaining to environmental protection, the Administrator will consult with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating. The Administrator also will take into account and give due consideration to formal comments received from the public, including those from the State agency, and to the information contained in the final site-specific EIS prepared with respect to the proposed permit.
§ 971.420
Resource conservation requirements.
For the purpose of conservation of natural resources, each permit issued under this part will contain, as needed, TCRs which have due regard for the prevention of waste and the future opportunity for the commercial recovery of the unrecovered balance of the hard mineral resources in the recovery area. The Administrator will establish these requirements pursuant to § 971.502.
§ 971.421
Freedom of the high seas requirements.
Each permit issued under this part must include appropriate restrictions to ensure that commercial recovery activities do not unreasonably interfere with the interests of other nations in their exercise of the freedoms of the high seas, as recognized under general principles of international law. The Administrator will consider the factors in § 971.403 in establishing these restrictions.
§ 971.422
Safety at sea requirements.
The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, in consultation with the Administrator, will require in any permit issued under this part, in conformity with principles of international law, that vessels documented under the laws of the United States and used in activities authorized under the permit comply with conditions regarding design, construction, alteration, repair, equipment, operation, manning and maintenance relating to vessel and crew safety and the promotion of safety of life and property at sea. These requirements will be established with reference to subpart G of this part.
§ 971.423
Best available technology.
The Administrator will require in all activities under new permits, and wherever practicable in activities under existing permits, the use of the best available technologies for the protection of safety, health, and the environment wherever such activities would have a significant adverse effect on safety, health, or the environment, (see §§ 971.203(b)(3), 971.602(f), and 971.604(a)), except where the Administrator determines that the incremental benefits are clearly insufficient to justify the incremental costs of using such technologies.
§ 971.424
Monitoring requirements.
Each commercial recovery permit will require the permittee:
(a) To allow the Administrator to place appropriate Federal officers or employees as observers aboard vessels used by the permittee in commercial recovery activities to:
(1) Monitor activities at times, and to the extent, the Administrator deems reasonable and necessary to assess the effectiveness of the TCRs of the permit; and
(2) Report to the Administrator whenever those officers or employees have reason to believe there is a failure to comply with the TCRs;
(b) To cooperate with Federal officers and employees in the performance of monitoring functions; and
(c) To monitor the environmental effects of the commercial recovery activities in accordance with a monitoring plan approved and issued by NOAA as permit TCRs and to submit data and other information as necessary to permit evaluation of environmental effects. The environmental monitoring plan and reporting will respond to the concerns and procedures discussed in subpart F.
§ 971.425
Changes of circumstances.
Each permit must require the permittee to advise the Administrator of any changes of circumstances which might constitute a revision which would be a major change under § 971.412(c). Changes in ownership, financing, and use conflicts are examples, as are technology or methodology changes including those which might result in significant adverse environmental effects.
§ 971.426
Annual report and records maintenance.
Each permit will require the permittee to submit an annual report and maintain information in accordance with § 971.801 including compliance with the commercial recovery plan and the quantities of hard mineral resources recovered and the disposition of such resources.
§ 971.427
Processing outside the United States.
If appropriate TCRs will incorporate provisions to implement the decision of the Administrator regarding the return of resources processed outside the United States, in accordance with § 971.408.
§ 971.428
Other necessary permits.
Each permit will provide that securing the deep seabed mining permit for activities described in the recovery plan and accompanying application does not eliminate the need to secure all other necessary Federal, State, and local permits.
§ 971.429
Special terms, conditions and restrictions.
Although the general criteria and standards to be used in establishing TCRs for a permit are set forth in this part, as referenced in §§ 971.418 through 971.428, the Administrator may impose special TCRs for the conservation of natural resources, protection of the environment, or the safety of life and property at sea when required by differing physical and environmental conditions.
§ 971.430
Other Federal requirements.
Pursuant to § 971.211, another Federal agency, or a State acting under Federal authority, upon review of a commercial recovery permit application submitted under this part, may propose that certain TCRs be added to the permit, to assure compliance with any law or regulation within that agency's area of responsibility. The Administrator will include appropriate TCRs in a permit.

# Subpart E—Resource Development
§ 971.500
General.
Several provisions in the Act relate to appropriate mining techniques or mining efficiency. These raise what could be characterized as resource development issues. In particular, section 103(a)(2)(C) requires a resource assessment to be provided with the recovery plan. Section 103(a)(2)(D) of the Act provides that the applicant will select the size and location of the area of a recovery plan, which will be approved unless the Administrator finds that the area is not a “logical mining unit” or the commercial recovery activities in the proposed site would result in a significant adverse environmental effect which cannot be avoided by the imposition of reasonable restrictions. Also, pursuant to section 108 of the Act, the applicant's recovery plan and the TCRs of each permit must be designed to ensure diligent development. In addition, for the purpose of conservation of natural resources, section 110 of the Act provides that each permit is to contain, as needed, terms, conditions, and restrictions which have due regard for the prevention of waste and the future opportunity for the commercial recovery of the unrecovered balance of the resources.
§ 971.501
Resource assessment, recovery plan, and logical mining unit.
(a) The applicant must submit with the application a resource assessment to provide a basis for assessing the area applied for. This assessment must include a discussion of mineable and unmineable areas, taking into account nodule grade, nodule concentration, and other factors such as seafloor topography. These areas may be delineated graphically. The resources in the area must be described in relation to the applicant's production requirements, operating period, and recovery efficiency in order to justify the area applied for.
(b) The applicant shall select the size and location of the area of the recovery plan, which area shall be approved unless the Administrator finds that, among other considerations (see § 971.301(a)), the area is not a logical mining unit. In the case of a commercial recovery permit, a logical mining unit is an area of the deep seabed:
(1) In which hard mineral resources can be recovered in sufficient quantities to satisfy the permittee's estimated production requirements over the initial 20-year term of the permit in an efficient, economical, and orderly manner with due regard for conservation and protection of the environment, taking into consideration the resource data, other relevant physical and environmental characteristics, and the state of the technology of the applicant set out in the recovery plan;
(2) Which is not larger than necessary to satisfy the permittee's estimated production requirements over the initial 20-year term of the permit; and
(3) In relation to which the permittee's estimated production requirements are not found by the Administrator to be unreasonable.
(c) Approval by the Administrator of a proposed logical mining unit will be based on a case-by-case review of each application. The area need not consist of contiguous segments, as long as each segment would be efficiently mineable and the total proposed area constitutes a logical mining unit.
(d) In describing the area, the applicant must present the geodetic coordinates of the points defining the boundaries referred to the World Geodetic System (WGS) Datum. A boundary between points must be a geodesic. If grid coordinates are desired, the Universal Transverse Mercator Grid System must be used.
§ 971.502
Conservation of resources.
(a) If the Administrator establishes terms, conditions and restrictions relating to conservation of resources, he will employ a balancing process in the consideration of the state of the technology being developed, the processing system utilized and the value and potential use of any waste, the environmental effects of the recovery activities, economic and resource data, and the national need for hard mineral resources.
(b) The application must set forth how the applicant's proposed method of collecting nodules will conserve resources by providing for the future opportunity for commercial recovery of the unrecovered balance of the resources in the proposed permit area. Although preliminary and subject to change, the discussion must include a plan for the chronology of areas to be mined. This is needed in order for the Administrator to determine if selective mining, expected to be carried out in the early years to improve cash flow, is part of a long range recovery plan.
(c) If the applicant proposes a refining process that does not include the use of manganese in a productive manner, it may not render the manganese unavailable to future users by dispersing the tailings over a vast area unless such a scheme is necessary for the financial practicability of the commercial recovery activities of the applicant. A permittee must advise the Administrator in the annual report of the location, composition and quantity of manganese in tailings which remain after processing. Should national needs for manganese develop during the duration of a permit, e.g., in case of national emergency, the Administrator may cancel the exception granted involving dispersion of tailings. Applicants seeking an exception would be required to demonstrate how and in what time frame their commercial recovery processing activities could be modified to respond to new national needs.
§ 971.503
Diligent commercial recovery.
(a) Each permittee must pursue diligently the activities described in its approved commercial recovery plan. This requirement applies to the full scope of the plan, including environmental safeguards and monitoring systems. Permit TCRs will require periodic reasonable expenditures for commercial recovery by the permittee, taking into account the size of the area of the deep seabed to which the recovery plan applies and the amount of funds estimated by the Administrator to be required to initiate commercial recovery of hard mineral resources within the time limit established by the Administrator. However, required expenditures will not be established at a level which would discourage commercial recovery or operational efficiency.
(b) To meet the diligence requirement, the applicant must propose to the Administrator an estimated schedule of activities and expenditures pursuant to § 971.203(b)(2). The schedule must show, and the Administrator must be able to make a reasonable determination, that the applicant can reasonably develop the resources in the permit area within the term of the permit. There must be a reasonable relationship between the size of the recovery area and the financial and technological resources reflected in the application. The permittee must initiate the recovery of nodules in commerical quantities within ten years of the issuance of the permit unless this deadline is extended by the Administrator for good cause.
(c) Once commercial recovery is achieved, the permittee must, within reasonable limits and taking into consideration all relevant factors, maintain commercial recovery throughout the period of the permit. However, the Administrator will, for good cause shown, authorize temporary suspension of commercial recovery activities. The duration of any suspension will not exceed one year, unless the Administrator determines that conditions justify an extension of the suspension.
(d) Ultimately, the diligence requirement will involve a retrospective determination by the Administrator, based on the permittee's reasonable conformance to the approved recovery plan. This determination, however, will take into account the need for some degree of flexibility in a recovery plan. It also will include consideration of the needs and stage of development of the permittee based on the approved recovery plan; legitimate periods of time when there is no or very low expenditure; and allowance for a certain degree of flexibility for changes encountered by the permittee in market conditions or other factors.
(e) The permittee must submit a report annually reflecting its conformance to the schedule of activities and expenditures contained in the permit and its associated recovery plan. In case of any changes requiring a revision to an approved permit and recovery plan, the permittee must advise the Administrator in accordance with § 971.413.

# Subpart F—Environmental Effects
§ 971.600
General.
The Act contains several provisions which relate to environmental protection. For example, section 105(a)(4) requires that, before the Administrator may issue a commercial recovery permit, he must find that the commercial recovery proposed in the application cannot reasonably be expected to result in a significant adverse environmental effect. In addition, each permit issued must contain TCRs which prescribe actions the permittee must take in the conduct of commercial recovery activities to assure protection of the environment (section 109(b)). The Act also provides for modification by the Administrator of any TCR if relevant data and information indicate that modification is required to protect the quality of the environment (section 105(c)(1)(B)). The Administrator also may order an immediate suspension or modification of activities (section 106(c)), or require use of best available technologies (section 109(b)), to prevent a significant adverse environmental effect. Furthermore, each permit issued under the Act must require the permittee to monitor the environmental effects of commercial recovery activities in accordance with guidelines
issued by the Administrator, and to submit information the Administrator finds necessary and appropriate to assess environmental effects and to develop and evaluate possible methods of mitigating adverse effects (section 114).
§ 971.601
Environmental requirements.
Before issuing a permit for the commercial recovery of deep seabed hard mineral resources, the Administrator must find that:
(a) The issuance of a permit cannot reasonably be expected to result in a significant adverse environmental effect, or, if there is insufficient information to make that determination, that no irreparable harm will result during a period when monitoring of commerical recovery is undertaken to gather sufficient information in order to determine the potential for or occurrence of any significant adverse environmental effect. In examining this issue, NOAA will give consideration to the following Ocean Discharge Criteria of the Clean Water Act (40 CFR part 125, subpart M), as they may pertain to discharges and other environmental perturbations related to the commercial recovery operations:
(1) The quantities, composition and potential for bioaccumulation or persistence of the pollutants to be discharged;
(2) The potential transport of such pollutants by biological, physical or chemical processes;
(3) The composition and vulnerability of the biological communities which may be exposed to such pollutants including the presence of unique species or communities of species, the presence of species identified as endangered or threatened pursuant to the Endangered Species Act, or the presence of those species critical to the structure or function of the ecosystem such as those important for the food chain;
(4) The importance of the receiving water area to the surrounding biological community, including the presence of spawning sites, nursery/forage areas, migratory pathways, or areas necessary for other functions or critical stages in the life cycle of an organism;
(5) The existence of special aquatic sites including but not limited to marine sanctuaries and refuges, parks, national and historic monuments, national seashores, wilderness areas and coral reefs;
(6) The potential impacts on human health through direct and indirect pathways;
(7) Existing or potential recreational and commercial fishing, including finfishing and shellfishing;
(8) Any applicable requirements of an approved Coastal Zone Management plan;
(9) Such other factors relating to the effects of the discharge as may be appropriate;
(10) Marine water quality criteria developed pursuant to section 304(a)(1) of the Clean Water Act; and
(b) The applicant has an approved monitoring plan (§ 971.603) and the resources and other capabilities to implement it.
§ 971.602
Significant adverse environmental effects.
(a)
Determination of significant adverse environmental effects.
The Administrator will determine the potential for or the occurrence of any significant adverse environmental effect or impact (for the purposes of sections 103(a)(2)(D), 105(a)(4), 106(c) and 109(b) (second sentence) of the Act), on a case-by-case basis.
(b)
Basis for determination.
Determinations will be based upon the best information available, including relevant environmental impact statements, NOAA-collected data, monitoring results, and other data provided by the applicant or permittee, as well as consideration of the criteria in § 971.601(a).
(c)
Related considerations.
In making a determination the Administrator may take into account any TCRs or other mitigation measures.
(d)
Activities with no significant adverse environmental effect.
NOAA believes that exploration-type activities, as listed in the license regulations (15 CFR 970.701), require no further environmental assessment.
(e)
Activities with potential for significant adverse environmental effects.
NOAA research has identified at-sea
testing of recovery equipment, the recovery of manganese nodules in commercial quantities from the deep seabed, and the construction and operation of commercial-scale processing facilities as activities which may have some potential for significant adverse envirnomental effects.
(f)
Related terms, conditions and restrictions.
Permits will be issued with TCRs containing environmental requirements with respect to protection (pursuant to § 971.419), mitigation (pursuant to § 971.419), or best available technology requirements (pursuant to § 971.423), as appropriate, and monitoring requirements (pursuant to § 971.424) to acquire more information on the environmental effects of deep seabed mining.
§ 971.603
At-sea monitoring.
(a) An applicant must submit with its application a monitoring plan designed to enable the Administrator to assess environmental impacts and to develop and evaluate possible methods of mitigating adverse environmental effects, to validate assessments made in the EIS, and to assure compliance with the environmental protection requirements of this part.
(b) The monitoring plan shall include a characterization of the proposed mining system in terms of collector contact, benthic discharge and surface discharge.
(c) The monitoring plan shall include determination of (1) the spatial and temporal characteristics of the mining ship discharges; (2) the spatial extent and severity of the benthic impact, including recovery rate and pattern of benthic recolonization; and (3) any secondary effects that result from the impact of the mining collector and benthic plume.
(d) The monitoring of benthic impact shall involve the study of two types of areas, each selected by the permittee in consultation with NOAA, which areas shall be representative of the environmental characteristics of the permittee's site:
(1) An impact reference area, located in a portion of a permit area tentatively scheduled to be mined early in a commercial recovery plan; and
(2) An interim preservational reference area, located in a portion of a permit area tentatively determined: to be non-mineable, not to be scheduled for mining during the commercial recovery plan, or to be scheduled for mining late in the plan.
Reference areas may be selected provisionally prior to application for a commercial recovery permit.
(e) The following specific environmental parameters must be proposed for examination in the applicant's monitoring plan:
(1) Discharges—
(i) Salinity, temperature, density.
(ii) Suspended particulates concentration and density.
(iii) Particulate and dissolved nutrients and metals.
(iv) Size, configuration, and velocities of discharge.
(2) Upper water column—
(i) Nutrients.
(ii) Endangered species (observations).
(iii) Salinity, temperature, density.
(iv) Currents and direct current shear.
(v) Vertical distribution of light.
(vi) Suspended particulate material advection and diffusion.
(vii) In-situ settling velocities of suspended particulates.
(viii) Zooplankton and trace metals uptake.
(ix) Fish larvae.
(x) Behavior of biota, including commercially and recreationally valuable fish.
(3) Lower water column and seafloor—
(i) Currents.
(ii) Suspended particulate material advection and diffusion.
(iii) In-situ settling velocities of suspended particulates.
(iv) Benthic scraping and blanketing, and their impacts and recovery.
(f) The monitoring plan shall include provision for monitoring those areas impacted by the permittee's mining activities, even if such areas fall outside its minesite, where the proposed activities have the potential to cause significant adverse environmental effect or irreparable harm in the outside area.
(g) After the Administrator's approval of the monitoring plan, this
plan will become a permit TCR. The monitoring plan TCR will include, to the maximum extent practicable, identification of those activities or events that could cause suspension or modification due to environmental effects under § 971.417, or permit revocation in the event that these effects cannot be adequately mitigated. The TCR also will authorize refinement of the monitoring plan prior to testing and commercial-scale recovery, and at other appropriate times, if refinement is necessary to reflect accurately proposed operations or to incorporate recent research or monitoring results.
(h) If test mining is proposed, the applicant shall include in the monitoring plan a monitoring plan for the test(s) as well as a strategy for using the result to monitor more effectively commercial-scale recovery. This monitoring shall address concerns expressed in the PEIS and in the permit EIS.
(i) The monitoring plan shall include a sampling strategy that assures: that it is based on sound statistical methods, that equipment and methods be scientifically accepted, that the personnel who are planning, collecting and analyzing data be scientifically well qualified, and that the resultant data be submitted to the Administrator in accordance with formats of the National Oceanographic Data Center and other formats as may be specified by the Administrator.
(j) Pursuant to section 114(1) of the Act, the Administrator intends to place observers onboard mining vessels, not only to ensure that permit TCRs are followed, but also to evaluate the effectiveness of monitoring strategies, both in terms of protecting the environment and in being cost-effective (See § 971.1005), and if necessary, to develop potential mitigation measures. If modification of permit TCRs or regulations is required to protect the quality of the environment, the Administrator may modify TCRs pursuant to § 971.414, or the regulations pursuant to § 971.804.
§ 971.604
Best available technologies (BAT) and mitigation.
(a) The Administrator shall require in all activities under new permits, and wherever practicable in activities under existing permits, the use of the best available technologies for the protection of safety, health, and the environment wherever such activities would have a significant adverse effect on safety, health, or the environment, except where the Administrator determines that the incremental benefits are clearly insufficient to justify the incremental costs of using such technologies. Because of the embryonic nature of the industry, NOAA is unable either to specify particular equipment or procedures comprising BAT or to define performance standards. Until such experience exists, the applicant shall submit such information as is necessary to indicate, as required above, the use of BAT, the alternatives considered to the specific equipment or procedures proposed, and the rationale as to why one alternative technology was selected in place of another. This analysis shall include a discussion of the relative costs and benefits of the technologies considered.
(b) NOAA is not specifying particular mitigation methodologies or techniques at this time (such as requiring the sub-surface release of mining vessel discharges), but expects applicants and permittees to develop and carry out their operations, to the extent possible, to minimize adverse environmental effects and to be able to demonstrate efforts to that end. The applicant must submit a plan describing how he would mitigate a problem, if it were caused by the surface release of mining vessel discharges, including a plan for the monitoring of any discharges. Based upon monitoring results, NOAA may find it necessary in the future to specify particular procedures for minimizing adverse environmental effects. These procedures would be incorporated into permit TCRs.
(c) NOAA will require the permittee to report, prior to implementation, any proposed technological or operational changes that will increase or have unknown environmental effects. Changes in composition, concentration or size distribution of suspended particulates discharged from the mining vessel, water depth of vessel discharges, depth of cut in the seafloor of the mining collector, and direction or amount of sediment discharged at the seafloor are
factors of concern to NOAA. In reporting any such change, the permittee shall submit information to indicate the use of BAT, alternatives considered, and rationale for selecting one technology in place of another, in a manner comparable to and to the extent required in paragraph (a) of this section. If proposed changes have a high potential for increasing adverse environmental effects, the Administrator may disapprove or require modification of the changes.
§ 971.605
Stable Reference Areas. [Reserved]
§ 971.606
Onshore information.
(a) To assist the Administrator in complying with NEPA requirements and to enable NOAA to function as lead agency in preparing permit site-specific environmental impact statements (EISs) and facilitating the preparation and processing of other environmental documents and permits, the applications must include the following information:
(1) The location and affected environment of port, transport, processing and waste disposal facilities and associated facilities (e.g., maps, land use and layout);
(2) A description of the environmental consequences and socio-economic effects of construction and operation of the facilities, including waste characteristics and toxicity;
(3) Any mitigating measures that may be proposed;
(4) Certification of consistency with the federally approved State coastal management program, where applicable, and evidence of the status of compliance with other State or local requirements relating to protection of the environment; and
(5) Alternative sites and technologies considered by the applicant and the considerations which eliminate their selection.
(b) The applicant must consult with NOAA as early as possible concerning the information to be submitted to NOAA to prepare an adequate environmental impact statement. The applicant is encouraged to consult with potentially affected States as early as is practicable [see also §§ 971.200(g) and 971.213].
(c) The requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)-(3) and (5) of this section also apply if approval of processing outside the United States is requested by the applicant, in accordance with Executive Order 12114 which requires the environmental review of major Federal actions abroad. Information detailing the socio-economic impacts of foreign processing activities is not required.

# Subpart G—Safety of Life and Property at Sea
§ 971.700
General.
The Act contains several requirements that relate to assuring the safety of life and property at sea. For example, before the Administrator may issue a permit, he must find that the proposed recovery will not pose an inordinate threat to the safety of life and property at sea (section 105(a)(5)). The Coast Guard, in consultation with NOAA, must require in any permit issued under the Act, in conformity with principles of international law, that vessels documented in the United States and used in activities authorized under the permit comply with conditions regarding the design, construction, alteration, repair, equipment, operation, manning and maintenance relating to vessel and crew safety and the safety of life and property at sea (section 112(a)). The Administrator may impose or modify TCRs for a permit if required to promote the safety of life and property at sea (section 105(c)(1)(B)).
§ 971.701
Criteria for safety of life and property at sea.
Response to the safety at sea requirements in essence will involve vessel inspection requirements, as identified by present laws and regulations. The primary inspection statutes pertaining to United States flag vessels are: 46 App. U.S.C. 86 (Loadlines) and 46 U.S.C. 3301 (Inspection of Seagoing Barges, Seagoing Motor Vessels, and Freight Vessels). United States flag vessels will be required to meet all applicable regulatory requirements, including the requirement for a current valid Coast
Guard Certificate of Inspection (pursuant to § 971.205(a)). United States flag vessels are under United States jurisdiction on the high seas and subject to domestic enforcement procedures. With respect to foreign flag vessels, the SOLAS 74 or SOLAS 60 certificate requirements specified in § 971.205(b) apply.

# Subpart H—Miscellaneous
§ 971.800
General.
The subpart contains miscellaneous provisions pursuant to the Act which are applicable to exploration licenses and commercial recovery permits.
§ 971.801
Records to be maintained and information to be submitted by licensees and permittees.
(a)(1) In addition to the information specified elsewhere in the part and in 15 CFR part 970, each licensee and permittee must keep such records, consistent with standard accounting principles, as specified by the Administrator in the license or permit. Such records shall include information which will fully disclose expenditures for exploration for, or commercial recovery of hard mineral resources in the area under license or permit, and any other information which will facilitate an effective audit of these expenditures.
(2) The Administrator and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access, for purposes of audit and examination to any books, documents, papers, and records of licensees and permittees which are necessary and directly pertinent to verification of the expenditures referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) In addition to the information specified elsewhere in this part and in 15 CFR part 970, each applicant, licensee or permittee will be required to submit to the Administrator, upon request, data or other information the Administrator may reasonably need for purposes of:
(1) Making determinations with respect to the issuance, revocation, modification, or suspension of the license or permit in question;
(2) Evaluating the effectiveness of license or permit TCRs;
(3) Compliance with the biennial Congressional report requirement contained in section 309 of the Act; and
(4) Evaluation of the exploration or commercial recovery activities conducted by the licensee or permittee.
At a minimum, licensees and permittees shall submit an annual written report within 90 days after each anniversary of the license or permit issuance or transfer, discussing exploration or commercial recovery activities and expenditures. The report shall address diligence requirements (see § 971.503 and 15 CFR 970.602), implementation of any approved monitoring plan (see § 971.602 and 15 CFR 970.522(c) and 970.702(a)), and applicable changes which do not constitute revisions (see § 971.413(e) and 15 CFR 970.513(c)). Permittees must also report the tonnage of nodules recovered (§ 971.426) and discuss manganese conservation measures (see § 971.502).
§ 971.802
Public disclosure of documents received by NOAA.
(a)
Purpose.
This section provides a procedure by which persons submitting information pursuant to this part and 15 CFR part 970 may request that certain information not be subject to public disclosure. The substantiation requested is intended to assure that NOAA has a complete and proper basis for determining the legality and appropriateness of withholding or releasing the identified information if a public request for disclosure is received.
(b)
Written requests for confidential treatment.
(1) Any person who submits any information pursuant to this part or 15 CFR part 970, which information is considered by that person to be protected by the Trade Secrets Act (18 U.S.C. 1905) or otherwise to be a trade secret or commercial or financial information which is privileged or confidential, may request that the Administrator give the information confidential treatment.
(2)(i) Any request for confidential treatment of information:
(A) Should be submitted at the time of submission of information;
(B) Should state the period of time for which confidential treatment is desired (e.g., until a certain date, or until the occurrence of a certain event, or permanently);
(C) Must be submitted in writing; and
(D) Must include the name, mailing address, and telephone number of an agent of the submitter who is authorized to receive notice of requests for disclosure of the information pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii) If information is submitted to the Administrator without an accompanying request for confidential treatment, the notice referred to in paragraph (d)(2) of this section need not be given. If a request for confidential treatment is received after the information itself is received, the Administrator will make efforts to the extent administratively practicable to associate the request with copies of the previously submitted information in the files of NOAA and the Federal agencies to which the Administrator distributed the information.
(3)(i) Information subject to a request for confidential treatment must be segregated from information for which confidential treatment is not being requested, and each page (or segregable portion of each page) subject to the request must be clearly marked with the name of the person requesting confidential treatment, the name of the applicant, licensee or permittee, and an identifying legend such as “Proprietary Information” or “Confidential Treatment Requested.” Where this marking proves impracticable, a cover sheet containing the identifying names and legend must be securely attached to the compilation of information for which confidential treatment is requested. Each copy of the information for which confidential treatment has been requested must be cross-referenced to the appropriate section of the application or other document. All information for which confidential treatment is requested pertaining to the same application or other document must be submitted to the Administrator in a package separate from that information for which confidential treatment is not being requested.
(ii) Each copy of any application or other document with respect to which confidential treatment of information has been requested must indicate, at each place in the application or document where confidential information has been deleted, that confidential treatment of information has been requested.
(4) Normally, the Administrator will not make a determination as to whether confidential treatment is warranted until a request for disclosure of the information is received. However, on a case-by-case basis, the Administrator may make a determination in advance of a request, where it would facilitate obtaining voluntarily submitted information (rather than information required to be submitted under this part).
(c)
Substantiation of request for confidential treatment.
(1) Any request for confidential treatment may include a statement of the basis for believing that the information is deserving of confidential treatment, which addresses the issues relevant to a determination of whether the information is a trade secret, or commercial or financial information which is privileged or confidential. To the extent permitted by applicable law, part or all of any substantiation statement submitted will be treated as confidential if so requested, and must be segregated, marked, and submitted in accordance with the procedure described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) Issues addressed in the statement should include:
(i) The commercial or financial nature of the information;
(ii) The nature and extent of the competitive advantage enjoyed as a result of possession of the information;
(iii) The nature and extent of the competitive harm which would result from public disclosure of the information;
(iv) The extent to which the information has been disseminated to employees and contractors of the person submitting the information;
(v) The extent to which persons other than the person submitting the information possesses, or have access to, the same information; and
(vi) The nature of the measures which have been and are being taken to
protect the information from disclosure.
(d)
Requests for disclosure of trade secrets, privileged, or confidential information.
(1) Any request for disclosure of information submitted, reported or collected pursuant to this part must be made in accordance with 15 CFR 903.7.
(2) Upon receipt of a request for disclosure of information for which confidential treatment has been requested, the Administrator immediately will issue notice by an expeditious means (such as by telephone, confirmed by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested) of the request for disclosure to the person who requested confidential treatment of the information or to the designated agent. The notice also will:
(i) Inquire whether that person continues to maintain the request for confidential treatment;
(ii) Notify that person of the date (generally, not later than the close of business on the seventh working day after issuance of the notice) by which the person is strongly encouraged to deliver to the Administrator a written statement that the person either:
(A) Waives or withdraws the request for confidential treatment in full or in part; or
(B) Confirms that the request for confidential treatment is maintained;
(iii) Inform that person that by a date the Administrator specifies (generally, not later than the close of business on the seventh working day after issuance of the notice), the person:
(A) Is strongly encouraged to deliver to the Administrator a written statement addressing the issues listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, describing the basis for believing that the information is deserving of confidential treatment, if this statement was not previously submitted;
(B) Is strongly encouraged to deliver to the Administrator an update of or supplement to any statement previously submitted under paragraph (c) of this section; and
(C) May present to the Administrator in a form the Administrator deems appropriate (such as by telephone or in an informal conference) agruments against disclosure of the information; and
(iv) Inform that person that the burden is on him to assure that any response to the notice is delivered to the Administrator within the time specified in the notice.
(3) To the extent permitted by applicable law, part or all or of any statement submitted in response to any notice issued under paragraph (d)(2) will be treated as confidential if so requested by the person submitting the response. Any response for which confidential treatment is requested must be segregated, marked and submitted in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(4) Upon the expiration of the time allowed for response under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the Administrator will determine, in consultation with the General Counsel for the Department of Commerce, whether confidential treatment is warranted based on the information then available to NOAA.
(5) If the person who requested confidential treatment waives or withdraws that request, the Administrator will proceed with appropriate disclosure of the information.
(6) If the Administrator determines that confidential treatment is warranted, he will so notify the person requesting confidential treatment, and will issue an initial denial of the request for disclosure of records in accordance with 15 CFR 903.8.
(7) If the Administrator determines that confidential treatment is not warranted for part or all of the information, the Administrator immediately will issue notice by an expeditious means (such as by telephone, confirmed by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested) to the person who requested confidential treatment. The notice will state:
(i) The basis for the Administrator's determination;
(ii) That the Administrator's determination constitutes final agency action on the request for confidential treatment;
(iii) That the final agency action is subject to judicial review under chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code; and
(iv) That on the seventh working day after issuance of the notice described
in this paragraph (d)(7), the Administrator will make the information available to the person who requested disclosure unless the Administrator has first been notified of the filing of an action in a Federal court to obtain judicial review of the determination, and the court has issued an appropriate order preventing or limiting disclosure.
(8) The Administrator will keep a record of the date any notice is issued and the date any response is received, by the Administrator, under this paragraph (d).
(9) In all other respects, procedures for handling requests for records containing information submitted to, reported to, or collected by the Administrator pursuant to this part will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 903. For example, if ten working days have passed after the receipt of a request for disclosure and, despite the exercise of due diligence by the agency, the Administrator cannot make a determination as to whether confidential treatment is warranted, the Administrator will issue appropriate notice in accordance with 15 CFR 903.8(b)(5).
(e)
Direct submission of confidential information.
If any person has reason to believe that it would be prejudiced by furnishing information required from it to the applicant, licensee or permittee, that person may file the required information directly with the Administrator. Information for which the person requests confidential treatment must be segregated, marked, and submitted in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(f)
Protection of confidential information transmitted by the Administrator to other agencies.
Each copy of information for which confidential treatment has been requested which is transmitted by the Administrator to other Federal agencies will be accompanied by a cover letter containing:
(1) A request that the other Federal agency maintain the information in confidence in accordance with applicable law (including the Trade Secret Act, 18 U.S.C. 1905) and any applicable protective agreement entered into by the Administrator and the Federal agency receiving the information;
(2) A request that the other Federal agency notify the Administrator immediately upon receipt of any request for disclosure of the information; and
(3) A request that all copies of the information be returned to the Administrator for secure storage or disposal promptly after the Federal agency determines that it no longer needs the information for its official use.
(g) When satisfied that adequate protection against public disclosure exists, applicants should provide the State agency with confidential and proprietary information which the State agency maintains is necessary to make a reasoned decision on the consistency of the proposal. State agency requests for such information must be related to the necessity of having such information to assess adequately the coastal zone effects of the proposal.
§ 971.803
Relinquishment and surrender of licenses and permits.
(a) Any licensee or permittee may at any time, without penalty:
(1) Surrender to the Administrator a license or permit issued to the licensee or permittee; or
(2) Relinquish to the Administrator, in whole or in part, any right to conduct any exploration or commercial recovery activities authorized by the license or permit.
(b) Any licensee or permittee who surrenders, or relinquishes any right under, a license or permit will remain liable with respect to all violations and penalties incurred, and damage to persons or property caused, by the licensee or permittee as a result of activities engaged in by the licensee or permittee under the license or permit.
§ 971.804
Amendment to regulations for conservation, protection of the environment, and safety of life and property at sea.
The Administrator may amend the regulations in this part and 15 CFR part 970 at any time as the Administrator determines to be necessary and appropriate in order to provide for the conservation of natural resources, protection of the environment, or the safety of life and property at sea. The amended regulations will apply to all
exploration or commercial recovery activities conducted under any license or permit issued or maintained pursuant to this part or 15 CFR part 970, except that amended regulations which provide for conservation of natural resources will apply to activities conducted under an existing license or permit during the present term of that license or permit only if the Administrator determines that the amended regulations providing for conservation of natural resources will not impose serious or irreparable economic hardship on the licensee or permittee. Any amendment to regulations under this section will be made pursuant to the procedures in subpart I of this part.
§ 971.805
Computation of time.
Except where otherwise specified, Saturdays, Sundays and Federal Government holidays will be included in computing the time period allowed for filing any document or paper under this part or 15 CFR part 970, but when a time period expires on any of these days, that time period will be extended to include the next following Federal Government work day. Filing periods expire at the close of business on the day specified, for the office specified.

# Subpart I—Uniform Procedures
§ 971.900
Applicability.
The regulations of this subpart govern the following hearings conducted by NOAA under this part and under 15 CFR part 970:
(a) All adjudicatory hearings required by section 116(b) of the Act to be held on the following actions upon a finding by the Administrator that one or more specific and material issues of fact exist which require resolution by formal process, including but not limited to:
(1) All applications for issuance or transfer of licenses or permits;
(2) All proposed TCRs on a license or permit; and
(3) All proposals to modify significantly a license or permit;
(b) Hearings conducted under section 105(b)(3) of the Act on objection by a licensee or permittee to any term, condition or restriction in a license or permit, or to modification thereto, where the licensee or permittee demonstrates, after final action by the Administrator on the objection, that a dispute remains as to a material issue of fact;
(c) Hearings conducted in accordance with section 106(b) of the Act pursuant to a timely request by an applicant or a licensee or permittee for review of:
(1) A proposed denial of issuance or transfer of a license or permit; or
(2) A proposed suspension or modification of particular activities under a license or permit after a Presidential determination pursuant to section 106(a)(2)(B) of the Act;
(d) Hearings conducted in accordance with section 308(c) of the Act to amend regulations for the purpose of conservation of natural resources, protection of the environment, and safety of life and property at sea;
(e) Hearings conducted in accordance with § 971.302 or 15 CFR 970.407 on a proposal to deny certification of an application; and
(f) Hearings conducted in accordance with 15 CFR part 970, subpart C to determine priority of right among preenactment explorers.
§ 971.901
Formal hearing procedures.
(a)
General.
(1) All hearings described in § 971.900 are governed by subpart C of 15 CFR part 904, as modified by this section. The rules in this subpart take precedence over 15 CFR part 904, subpart C, to the extent there is a conflict.
(2) Hearings held under this section will be consolidated insofar as practicable with hearings held by other agencies.
(3) For the purposes of this subpart,
involved applicant, licensee or permittee
means an applicant, licensee or permittee the status of whose application, license, permit or activities conducted under the license or permit may be altered by the Administrator as a result of proceedings under this subpart.
(b)
Decision to hold a hearing.
Whenever the Administrator finds that a formal hearing is required by the provisions of this part or 15 CFR part 970, he will provide for a formal hearing. Upon deciding to hold a formal hearing, the Administrator will refer the proceeding to the Department of Commerce Office
of Administrative Law Judges for assignment to an Administrative Law Judge to serve as presiding officer for the hearing.
(c)
Notice of formal hearing.
(1) The Administrator will publish notice of the formal hearing in the
Federal Register
at least 15 days before the beginning of the hearing, and will send written notice by registered or certified mail to any involved applicant, licensee or permittee and to all persons who submitted written comments upon the action in question, or who testified at any prior informal hearing on the action or who filed a request for the formal hearing under this part or 15 CFR part 970.
(2) Notice of a formal hearing will include, among other things:
(i) Time and place of the hearing and the name of the presiding judge, as determined under paragraph (b) of this section;
(ii) The name and address of the person(s) requesting the formal hearing or a statement that the formal hearing is being held by order of the Administrator;
(iii) The issues in dispute which are to be resolved in the formal hearing;
(iv) The due date for filing a written request to participate in the hearing in accordance with paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section; and
(v) Reference to any prior informal hearing from which the issues to be determined arose.
(d)
Powers and duties of the administrative law judge.
In addition to the powers enumerated in 15 CFR part 904. Subpart C, judges will have the power to:
(1) Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of the parties, interested persons and others submitting evidence, including but not limited to the power to require the submission of part or all of the evidence in written form if the judge determines a party will not be prejudiced thereby, and if otherwise in accordance with law;
(2) Rule upon requests submitted in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section to participate as a party, or requests submitted in accordance with paragraph (f)(3) of this section to participate as an interested person in a proceeding, by allowing, denying, or limiting such participation; and
(3) Require at or prior to any hearing, the submission and exchange of evidence.
(e)
Argument.
At the close of the formal hearing, each party will be given the opportunity to submit written arguments on the issues before the judge.
(f)
Hearing participation.
(1) Parties to the formal hearing will include:
(i) The NOAA General Counsel;
(ii) Any involved applicant, licensee or permittee; and
(iii) Any other person determined by the judge, in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) below, to be eligible to participate as a full party.
(2) Any person desiring to participate as a party in a formal hearing must submit a request to the judge to be admitted as a party. The request must be submitted within ten days after the date of mailing or publication of notice of a decision to hold a formal hearing, whichever occurs later. Such person will be allowed to participate if the judge finds that the interests of justice and a fair determination of the issues would be served by granting the request. The judge may entertain a request submitted after the expiration of the ten days, but such a request may only be granted upon an express finding on the record that:
(i) Special circumstances justify granting the request;
(ii) The interests of justice and a fair determination of the issues would be served by granting the request;
(iii) The requestor has consented to be bound by all prior written agreements and stipulations agreed to by the existing parties, and all prior orders entered in the proceedings; and
(iv) Granting the request will not cause undue delay or prejudice the rights of the existing parties.
(3)(i) Any interested person who desires to submit evidence in a formal hearing must submit a request within ten days after the dates of mailing or publication of notice of a decision to hold a formal hearing, whichever occurs later. The judge may waive the ten day rule for good cause, such as if the interested person, making this request after the expiration of the ten
days, the formal hearing, and the evidence he proposes to submit may significantly affect the outcome of the proceedings.
(ii) The judge may permit an interested person to submit evidence at any formal hearing if the judge determines that such evidence is relevant to facts in dispute concerning the issue(s) being adjudicated. The fact that an interested person may submit evidence under this paragraph at a hearing does not entitle the interested person to participate in other ways in the hearing unless allowed by the judge under paragraph (f)(3)(iii) below.
(iii) The judge may allow an interested person to submit oral testimony, oral arguments or briefs, or to cross-examine witnesses or participate in other ways, if the judge determines:
(A) That the interests of justice would be better served by allowing such participation by the interested person; and
(B) That there are compelling circumstances favoring such participation by the interested person.
(g)
Definition of issues.
(1) Whenever a formal hearing is conducted pursuant to this section the Administrator may certify the issues for decision to the judge, and if the issues are so certified, the formal hearing will be limited to those issues.
(2) Whenever a formal hearing is conducted pursuant to a request by an applicant, licensee or permittee for review of a denial of certification, issuance or transfer of a license or permit in accordance with section 106(a)(4) of the Act, or pursuant to an objection to any term, condition, or restriction in a permit in accordance with section 105(b)(3) or (c)(4) of the Act, no issues may be raised by any party or interested person that were not previously raised in the administrative proceedings on the action pursuant to any such section, unless the judge determines that good cause is shown for the failure to raise them. Good cause includes the case where the party seeking to raise the new issues shows that it could not reasonably have ascertained the issues at a prior stage in the administrative process, or that it could not have reasonably anticipated the relevance or materiality of the information sought to be introduced.
(h)
Decisions
—(1)
Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.
The judge will allow each party to file with the judge proposed findings of fact, and in appropriate cases conclusions of law, together with a supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and briefs must be filed within ten days after the hearing or within such additional time as the judge may allow. Such proposals and briefs must refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal. Reply briefs must be submitted within ten days after receipt of the proposed findings and conclusions to which they respond, unless the judge allows additional time.
(2)
Recommended decision.
(i) As soon as practicable, but normally not later than 90 days after the conclusion of the formal hearing, the judge will evaluate the record of the formal hearing and prepare and file a recommended decision with the Administrator. The decision will contain findings of fact, when appropriate, conclusions regarding all material isuses of law, and a recommendation as to the appropriate action to be taken by the Administrator. The judge will serve a copy of the decision on each party and upon the Administrator.
(ii) Within thirty days after the date the recommended decision is served, any party may file with the Administrator exceptions to the recommended decision. The exceptions must refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied on in support of the exceptions.
(3)
Final decision.
(i) As soon as practicable, but normally not later than 60 days after receipt of the recommended decision, the Administrator will issue a final decision. The final decision will include findings of fact and conclusions regarding material issues of law or discretion, as well as reasons therefor. The final decision may accept or reject all or part of the recommended decision. The Administrator shall assure that the record shows the ruling on each exception presented.
(ii) With respect to hearings held pursuant to section 116(b), the Administrator may defer announcement of his findings of fact until the time he takes final action with respect to any action described in section 116(a).
(iii) The Administrator will base the final decision upon the record already made except that the Administrator may issue orders:
(A) Specifying the filing of supplemental briefs; or
(B) Remanding the matter to the judge for the receipt of further evidence, or otherwise assisting in the determination of the matter.
(i)
Filing and service of documents.
(1) Whenever the regulations in this subpart or an order issued hereunder require a document to be filed within a certain period of time, such document will be considered filed as of the date of the postmark, if mailed, or (if not mailed) as of the date actually delivered to the office where filing is required. Time periods will begin to run on the day following the date of the document, paper, or event which begins at the time period.
(2) All submissions must be signed by the person making the submission, or by the person's attorney or other authorized agent or representative.
(3) Service of a document must be made by delivering or mailing a copy of the document to the known address of the person being served.
(4) Whenever the regulations in this subpart require service of a document, such service may effectively be made on the agent for the service of process or on the attorney for the person to be served.
(5) Refusal of service of a document by the person, his agent, or attorney will be deemed effective service of the document as of the date of such refusal.
(6) A certficate of the person serving the document by personal delivery or by mailing, setting forth the manner of the service, will be proof of the service.

# Subpart J—Enforcement
§ 971.1000
General.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
(1) Section 302 of the Act authorizes the Administrator to assess a civil penalty, in an amount not to exceed $25,000 for each violation, against any person found to have committed an act prohibited by section 301 of the Act. Each day of a continuing violation is a separate offense.
(2) Section 106 of the Act describes the circumstances under which the Administrator may suspend or revoke a license or permit, or suspend or modify activities under a license or permit, in addition to or in lieu of imposing of a civil penalty, or in addition to imposing a fine.
(3) Section 306 of the Act makes provisions of the customs laws relating to, among other things, the remission or mitigation of forfeitures, applicable to forfeitures of vessels and hard mineral resources. The Administrator is authorized to entertain petitions for administrative settlement of property seizures made under the Act which would otherwise proceed to judicial forfeiture.
(4) Section 114 of the Act authorizes the Administrator to place observers on vessels used by a licensee or permittee under the Act to monitor compliance and environmental effects of activities under the license or permit.
(5) Section 117 of the Act describes the circumstances under which a person may bring a civil action against an alleged violator or against the Administrator for failure to perform a nondiscretionary duty, and directs the Administrator to issue regulations governing procedures prerequisite to such a civil action.
(6) The regulations in this subpart provide uniform rules and procedures for the assessment of civil penalties (§§ 971.1001-971.1002), and license and permit sanctions (§ 971.1003); the remission or mitigation of forfeitures (§ 971.1004); observers (§ 971.1005); protection of certain information related to enforcement (§ 971.1006); and procedures requiring persons planning to bring a civil action under section 117 of the Act to give advance notice (§ 971.1007).
(b)
Filing and service of documents.
(1) Except as otherwise provided by this subpart, filing and service of documents required by this subpart will be in accordance with § 971.901(i). The method for computing time periods set forth in § 971.901(i) also applies to any
action or event, such as payment of a civil penalty, required by this subpart to take place within a specified period of time.
(2) If an oral or written request is made to the Administrator within ten days after the expiration of a time period established in this subpart for the required filing of documents, the Administrator may permit a late filing if the Administrator finds reasonable grounds for an inability or failure to file within the time periods. All extensions will be in writing. Except as provided by this paragraph, by 15 CFR 904.102 or by order of an administrative law judge, no requests for an extension of time may be granted.
§ 971.1001
Assessment procedure.
Subpart B of 15 CFR part 904 governs the procedures for assessing a civil penalty under the Act, and the rights of any person against whom a civil penalty is assessed.
§ 971.1002
Hearing and appeal procedures.
(a)
Beginning of hearing procedures.
Following receipt of a written request for a hearing timely filed under 15 CFR 904.102, the Administrator will begin procedures under this section by forwarding the request, a copy of the NOVA, and any response thereto to the Department of Commerce, Office of Administrative Law Judges.
(b) Subpart C of 15 CFR part 904 governs the hearing and appeal procedures for civil penalties assessed under the Act.
§ 971.1003
License and permit sanctions.
(a)
Application of this section.
This section governs the suspension or revocation of any license or permit issued under the Act, or the suspension or modification of any particular activity or activities under a license or permit, which suspension, revocation or modification is undertaken in addition to, or in lieu of, imposing a civil penalty under this subpart, or in addition to imposing a fine.
(b)
Basis for sanctions.
The Administrator may act under this section with respect to a license or permit issued under the Act, or any particular activity or activities under such a license or permit, if the licensee or permittee substantially fails to comply with any provision of the Act, any regulation or order issued under the Act, or any term, condition, or restriction in the license or permit.
(c)
Nature of sanctions.
In the Administrator's discretion and subject to the requirements of this section, the Administrator may take any of the following actions or combinations thereof with respect to a license or permit issued under the Act:
(1) Revoke the license or permit;
(2) Suspend the license or permit, either for a specified period of time or until certain stated requirements are met, or both; or
(3) Modify any activity under the license or permit, as by imposing additional requirements or restraints on the activity.
(d)
Notice of sanction.
(1) The Administrator will prepare a notice of sanction (NoS) setting forth the sanction to be imposed and the basis therefore. The NoS will state:
(i) A concise statement of the facts believed to show a violation;
(ii) A specific reference to the provisions of the Act, regulation, license or permit, or order allegedly violated;
(iii) The nature and duration of the proposed sanction;
(iv) The effective date of the sanction, which is 30 days after the date of the notice unless the Administrator establishes a different effective date under paragraph (d)(4) or paragraph (e) of this section;
(v) That the licensee or permittee has 30 calendar days from receipt of the notice in which to request or waive a hearing, under paragraph (f) of this section; and
(vi) The determination made by the Administrator under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, and any time period that the Administrator provides the licensee or permittee under paragraph (e)(1) to correct a deficiency.
(2) If a hearing is requested in a timely manner, the sanction becomes effective as provided in the final decision of the Administrator issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, unless the Administrator provides otherwise under paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(3) The NoS will be served personally or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, on the licensee or permittee. The Administrator will also publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of his intention to impose a sanction.
(4) The Administrator may make the sanction effective immediately or otherwise earlier than 30 days after the date of the NoS if the Administrator finds, and issues an emergency order summarizing such finding and the basis therefor, that an earlier date is necessary to:
(i) Prevent a significant adverse environmental effect; or
(ii) Preserve the safety of life and property at sea.
If the Administrator acts under this paragraph (d)(4), the Administrator will serve the emergency order as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(5) The NoS will be accompanied by a copy of this subpart and the applicable provisions of 15 CFR part 904 and 15 CFR part 971, subpart I.
(e)
Opportunity to correct deficiencies.
(1) Prior to issuing the NoS, the Administrator will determine whether the reason for the proposed sanction is a deficiency which the licensee or permittee can correct. Such determination, and the basis therefor, will be set forth in the NoS.
(2) If the Administrator determines that the reason for the proposed sanction is a deficiency which the licensee or permittee can correct, the Administrator will allow the licensee or permittee a reasonable period of time, up to 180 days from the date of the NoS, to correct the deficiency. The NoS will state the effective date of the sanction, and that the sanction will take effect on that date unless the licensee or permittee corrects the deficiency within the time prescribed or unless the Administrator grants an extension of time to correct the deficiency under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(3) The licensee or permittee may, within the time period prescribed by the Administrator under paragraph (e)(2) of the section, request an extension of time to correct the deficiency. The Administrator may, for good cause shown, grant an extension. If the Administrator does not grant the request, either orally or in writing before the effective date of the sanction, the request will be considered denied.
(4) When the licensee or permittee believes that the deficiency has been corrected, the licensee or permittee shall so advise the Administrator in writing. The Administrator will, as soon as practicable, determine whether or not the deficiency has been corrected and advise the licensee or permittee of such determination.
(5) If the Administrator determines that the deficiency has not been corrected by the licensee or permittee within the time prescribed under paragraph (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section, the Administrator may:
(i) Grant the licensee or permittee additional time to correct the deficiency, for good cause shown;
(ii) If no hearing has been timely requested under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, notify the licensee or permittee that the sanction will take effect as provided in paragraph (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section; or
(iii) If a request for hearing has been timely filed under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, and hearing proceedings have not already begun, or if the Administrator determines under paragraph (f)(3) of this section to hold a hearing, notify the licensee or permittee of the Administrator's intention to proceed to a hearing on the matter.
(f)
Opportunity for hearing.
(1) The licensee or permittee has 30 days from receipt of the NoS to request a hearing. However, no hearing is required with respect to matters previously adjudicated in an administrative or judicial hearing in which the licensee or permittee has had an opportunity to participate.
(2) If the licensee or permittee requests a hearing, a written and dated request shall be served either in person or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, at the address specified in the NoS. The request shall either attach a copy of the relevant NoS or refer to the relevant NOAA case number.
(3) If no hearing is requested under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the Administrator may nonetheless order a
hearing if the Administrator determines that there are material issues of fact, law, or equity to be further explored.
(g)
Hearing and decision.
(1) If a timely request for a hearing under paragraph (f) of this section is received, or if the Administrator orders a hearing under paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the Administrator will promptly begin proceedings under this section by forwarding the request, a copy of the NoS and any response thereto to the Department of Commerce Office of Administrative Law Judges which will docket the matter for hearing. Written notice of the referral will promptly be given to the licensee or permittee, with the name and address of the attorney representing the Administrator in the proceedings (the agency representative). Thereafter, all pleading and other documents must be filed directly with the Department of Commerce Office of Administrative Law Judges, and a copy must be served on the opposing party (respondent or agency representative).
(2) Except as provided in this section, the hearing and appeal procedures in 15 CFR part 904, subpart C apply to any hearing held under this section.
(3) If the proposed sanction is the result of a correctable deficiency, the hearing will proceed concurrently with any attempt to correct the deficiency unless the parties agree otherwise or the Administrative Law Judge orders differently.
(4) As soon as practicable, but normally not later than 90 days after the conclusion of the formal hearing, the judge will file with the Administrator a recommended decision prepared in accordance with § 971.901(h)(2).
(5) The Administrator will issue a final decision in accordance with § 971.901(h)(3). The decision will be a final order of the Administrator.
(6) The Administrator will serve notice of the final decision on the licensee or permittee in the manner described by paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
§ 971.1004
Remission or mitigation of forfeitures.
(a) Authorized enforcement officers are empowered by section 304 of the Act to seize any vessel (together with its gear, furniture, appurtenances, stores, and cargo) which reasonably appears to have been used in violation of the Act, if necessary to prevent evasion of the enforcement of this Act, or of any regulation, order or license or permit issued pursuant to the Act. Enforcement agents may also seize illegally recovered or processed hard mineral resources, as well as other evidence related to a violation. Section 306 of the Act provides for the judicial forfeiture of vessels and hard mineral resources.
(b) Subpart F of 15 CFR part 904 governs procedures regarding seized property that is subject to forfeiture or has been forfeited under the Act, including the remission or mitigation of forfeitures.
(c) Unless otherwise directed in a notice concerning the seized property, a petition for relief from forfeiture under the Act and pursuant to 15 CFR 904.506(b) shall be addressed to the Administrator and filed with the Ocean Minerals and Energy Division at the address specified in § 971.200(b).
§ 971.1005
Observers.
(a)
Purpose of observers.
Each licensee and permittee shall allow, at such times and to such extent as the Administrator deems reasonable and necessary, an observer (as used in this section, the term “observer” means “one or more observers”) duly authorized by the Administrator to board and accompany any vessel used by the licensee or permittee in exploration or commercial recovery activities (hereafter referred to in this section as a “vessel”), for the purpose of observing, evaluating and reporting on:
(1) The effectiveness of the terms, conditions, and restrictions of the license or permit;
(2) Compliance with the Act, regulations and orders issued under the Act, and the license or permit terms, conditions, and restrictions; and
(3) The environmental and other effects of the licensee's or permittee's activities under the license or permit.
(b)
Notice to licensee or permittee.
(1) If the Administrator plans to place an observer aboard a vessel, the Administrator will so notify the affected licensee or permittee.
(2) The Administrator normally will issue any such notice as far in advance of placement of the observer as is practicable.
(3)
Contents of notice.
The notice given by the Administrator will include, among other things:
(i) The name of the observer, if known at the time notice is issued;
(ii) The length of time which the observer likely will be aboard the vessel;
(iii) Information concerning activities the observer is likely to conduct, such as:
(A) Identification of special activities that the observer will monitor;
(B) Planned tests of equipment used for monitoring;
(C) Activities of the observer that are likely to require assistance from the vessel's personnel or crew or use of the vessel's equipment; and
(D) Planned tests of alternative operating procedures or technologies for mitigation of environmental effects.
(iv) Information concerning the equipment that will be brought aboard the vessel, such as a description of the monitoring equipment, and any special requirements concerning the handling, storage, location or operation of, or the power supply for, the equipment.
(c)
Initial monitoring period.
The Administrator shall require the placement of an observer on each permittee's mining vessel(s) at least once during the initial year of the permittee's commercial recovery activities.
(d)
Licensee's and permittee's responsibilities for observer placement.
(1) Upon request by the Administrator, a licensee or permittee shall facilitate observer placement by promptly notifying the Administrator regarding the timing of planned system tests and the departure date of the next voyage, or, if the vessel is at sea, suggesting a time and method for transporting the observer to the vessel.
(2) In addition, the licensee or permittee shall notify NOAA of the date of departure of planned cruises 60 days in advance of ship departure from port for purposes of NOAA's determination of whether to place Federal observers onboard. If cruise plans are changed by more than 30 days from the date stated by the exploration or commercial recovery plan, the licensee or permittee shall notify NOAA as soon as such changes are made, or 90 days prior to the previously scheduled departure.
(e)
Duties of licensee, permittee, owner or operator.
Each licensee, permittee, owner or operator of a vessel aboard which an observer is assigned shall:
(1) Allow the observer access to and use of the vessel's communications equipment and personnel when the observer deems such access necessary for the transmission and receipt of messages;
(2) Allow the observer access to and use of the vessel's navigation equipment and personnel when the observer deems such access necessary to determine the vessel's location;
(3) Provide all other reasonable cooperation and assistance to enable the observer to carry out the observer's duties; and
(4) Provide temporary accommodations and food to the observer aboard the vessel which are equivalent to those provided to officers of the vessel.
(f)
Reasonableness of observer activities.
(1) To the maximum extent practicable, observation duties will be planned and carried out in a manner that minimizes interference with the licensee's or permittee's activities under the license or permit.
(2) The Administrator will assure that equipment brought aboard a vessel by the observer is reasonable as to size, weight, and electric power and storage requirements, taking into consideration the necessity of the equipment for carrying out the observer's functions.
(3) The observer will have no authority over the operation of the vessel or its activities, or the officers, crew, or personnel of the vessel. The observer will comply with all rules and regulations issued by the licensee or permittee, and all orders of the Master or senior operations official, with respect to ensuring safe operation of the vessel and the safety of its personnel.
(g)
Non-interference with observer.
Licensees, permittees and other persons
are reminded that the Act (see, for example, sections 301(3) and 301(4)) makes it unlawful for any person subject to section 301 of the Act to interfere with any observer in the performance of the observer's duties.
(h)
Confidentiality of information.
NOAA recognizes the possibility that an observer, in performing observer functions, will record information which the licensee or permittee considers to be proprietary. NOAA intends to protect such information consistent with applicable law. The Administrator may in appropriate cases provide the licensee or permittee an opportunity:
(1) To review those parts of the observer's report which may contain proprietary information; and
(2) To request confidential treatment of such information under § 971.802.
§ 971.1006
Proprietary enforcement information.
(a) Proprietary and privileged information seized or maintained under Title III of the Act concerning a person or vessel engaged in commercial recovery will not be made available for general or public use or inspection.
(b) Although presentation of evidence in a proceeding under this subpart is not deemed general or public use of information, the Administrator will, consistent with due process, move to have records sealed, under 15 CFR part 904 subpart C, or other applicable provisions of law, in any administrative or judicial proceeding where the use of proprietary or privileged information is required to serve the purpose of the Act.
§ 971.1007
Advance notice of civil actions.
(a)
Actions against alleged violators.
(1) No civil action may be filed in a United States District Court under section 117 of the Act against any person for alleged violation of the Act, or any regulation, or license or permit term, condition, or restriction issued under the Act, until 60 days after the Administrator and any alleged violator receive written and dated notice of alleged violation.
(2) The notice shall contain:
(i) A concise statement of the facts believed to show a violation;
(ii) A specific reference to the provisions of the Act, regulation or license or permit allegedly violated; and
(iii) Any documentary or other evidence of the alleged violation.
(b)
Action against the Administrator.
(1) No civil action may be filed in a United States District Court under section 117 of the Act against the Administrator for an alleged failure to perform any act or duty under the Act which is not discretionary until 60 days after receipt by the Administrator of a written and dated notice of intent to file the action.
(2) The notice shall contain:
(i) A specific reference to the provisions of the Act, regulation or permit believed to require the Administrator to perform a nondiscretionary act or duty;
(ii) A precise description of the nondiscretionary act or duty believed to be required by such provision;
(iii) A concise statement of the facts believed to show a failure to perform the act or duty; and
(iv) Any documentary or other evidence of the alleged failure to perform the act or duty.

# SUBCHAPTER E—OIL POLLUTION ACT REGULATIONS
Pt. 990

# PART 990—NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS

# Subpart A—Introduction
Sec.
990.10
Purpose.
990.11
Scope.
990.12
Overview.
990.13
Rebuttable presumption.
990.14
Coordination.
990.15
Considerations to facilitate restoration.

# Subpart B—Authorities
990.20
Relationship to the CERCLA natural resource damage assessment regulations.
990.21
Relationship to the NCP.
990.22
Prohibition on double recovery.
990.23
Compliance with NEPA and the CEQ regulations.
990.24
Compliance with other applicable laws and regulations.
990.25
Settlement.
990.26
Emergency restoration.
990.27
Use of assessment procedures.

# Subpart C—Definitions
990.30
Definitions.

# Subpart D—Preassessment Phase
990.40
Purpose.
990.41
Determination of jurisdiction.
990.42
Determination to conduct restoration planning.
990.43
Data collection.
990.44
Notice of Intent to Conduct Restoration Planning.
990.45
Administrative record.

# Subpart E—Restoration Planning Phase
990.50
Purpose.
990.51
Injury assessment—injury determination.
990.52
Injury assessment—quantification.
990.53
Restoration selection—developing restoration alternatives.
990.54
Restoration selection—evaluation of alternatives.
990.55
Restoration selection—developing restoration plans.
990.56
Restoration selection—use of a Regional Restoration Plan or existing restoration project.

# Subpart F—Restoration Implementation Phase
990.60
Purpose.
990.61
Administrative record.
990.62
Presenting a demand.
990.63
Discounting and compounding.
990.64
Unsatisfied demands.
990.65
Opening an account for recovered damages.
990.66
Additional considerations.

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.

# Source:
61 FR 500, Jan. 5, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Introduction
§ 990.10
Purpose.
The goal of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA), 33 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.,
is to make the environment and public whole for injuries to natural resources and services resulting from an incident involving a discharge or substantial threat of a discharge of oil (incident).
This goal is achieved through the return of the injured natural resources and services to baseline and compensation for interim losses of such natural resources and services from the date of the incident until recovery. The purpose of this part is to promote expeditious and cost-effective restoration of natural resources and services injured as a result of an incident. To fulfill this purpose, this part provides a natural resource damage assessment process for developing a plan for restoration of the injured natural resources and services and pursuing implementation or funding of the plan by responsible parties. This part also provides an administrative process for involving interested parties in the assessment, a range of assessment procedures for identifying and evaluating injuries to natural resources and services, and a means for selecting restoration actions from a reasonable range of alternatives.
§ 990.11
Scope.
The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA), 33 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.,
provides for the designation of federal, state, and, if designated by the Governor of the state, local officials to act on behalf of the public as trustees for natural resources and for the designation of Indian tribe and foreign officials to act as trustees for natural resources on behalf
of, respectively, the tribe or its members and the foreign government. This part may be used by these officials in conducting natural resource damage assessments when natural resources and/or services are injured as a result of an incident involving an actual or substantial threat of a discharge of oil. This part is not intended to affect the recoverability of natural resource damages when recoveries are sought other than in accordance with this part.
§ 990.12
Overview.
This part describes three phases of a natural resource damage assessment. The Preassessment Phase, during which trustees determine whether to pursue restoration, is described in subpart D of this part. The Restoration Planning Phase, during which trustees evaluate information on potential injuries and use that information to determine the need for, type of, and scale of restoration, is described in subpart E of this part. The Restoration Implementation Phase, during which trustees ensure implementation of restoration, is described in subpart F of this part.
§ 990.13
Rebuttable presumption.
Any determination or assessment of damages to natural resources made by a Federal, State, or Indian trustee in accordance with this part shall have the force and effect of a rebuttable presumption on behalf of the trustee in any administrative or judicial proceeding under OPA.
§ 990.14
Coordination.
(a)
Trustees.
(1) If an incident affects the interests of multiple trustees, the trustees should act jointly under this part to ensure that full restoration is achieved without double recovery of damages. For joint assessments, trustees must designate one or more Lead Administrative Trustee(s) to act as coordinators.
(2) If there is a reasonable basis for dividing the natural resource damage assessment, trustees may act independently under this part, so long as there is no double recovery of damages.
(3) Trustees may develop pre-incident or incident-specific memoranda of understanding to coordinate their activities.
(b)
Response agencies.
Trustees must coordinate their activities conducted concurrently with response operations with response agencies consistent with the NCP and any pre-incident plans developed under § 990.15(a) of this part. Trustees may develop pre-incident memoranda of understanding to coordinate their activities with response agencies.
(c)
Responsible parties
—(1)
Invitation.
Trustees must invite the responsible parties to participate in the natural resource damage assessment described in this part. The invitation to participate should be in writing, and a written response by the responsible parties is required to confirm the desire to participate.
(2)
Timing.
The invitation to participate should be extended to known responsible parties as soon as practicable, but not later than the delivery of the “Notice of Intent to Conduct Restoration Planning,” under § 990.44 of this part, to the responsible party.
(3)
Agreements.
Trustees and responsible parties should consider entering into binding agreements to facilitate their interactions and resolve any disputes during the assessment. To maximize cost-effectiveness and cooperation, trustees and responsible parties should attempt to develop a set of agreed-upon facts concerning the incident and/or assessment.
(4)
Nature and extent of participation.
If the responsible parties accept the invitation to participate, the scope of that participation must be determined by the trustees, in light of the considerations in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. At a minimum, participation will include notice of trustee determinations required under this part, and notice and opportunity to comment on documents or plans that significantly affect the nature and extent of the assessment. Increased levels of participation by responsible parties may be developed at the mutual agreement of the trustees and the responsible parties. Trustees will objectively consider all written comments provided by the responsible parties, as well as any other recommendations or proposals that the responsible parties submit in writing to the Lead Administrative Trustee. Submissions by the responsible parties
will be included in the administrative record. Final authority to make determinations regarding injury and restoration rest solely with the trustees. Trustees may end participation by responsible parties who, during the conduct of the assessment, in the sole judgment of the trustees, cause interference with the trustees' ability to fulfill their responsibilities under OPA and this part.
(5)
Considerations.
In determining the nature and extent of participation by the responsible parties or their representatives, trustees may consider such factors as:
(i) Whether the responsible parties have been identified;
(ii) The willingness of responsible parties to participate in the assessment;
(iii) The willingness of responsible parties to fund assessment activities;
(iv) The willingness and ability of responsible parties to conduct assessment activities in a technically sound and timely manner and to be bound by the results of jointly agreed upon studies;
(v) The degree of cooperation of the responsible parties in the response to the incident; and
(vi) The actions of the responsible parties in prior assessments.
(6)
Request for alternative assessment procedures.
(i) The participating responsible parties may request that trustees use assessment procedures other than those selected by the trustees if the responsible parties:
(A) Identify the proposed procedures to be used that meet the requirements of § 990.27 of this part, and provide reasons supporting the technical adequacy and appropriateness of such procedures for the incident and associated injuries;
(B) Advance to the trustees the trustees' reasonable estimate of the cost of using the proposed procedures; and
(C) Agree not to challenge the results of the proposed procedures. The request from the responsible parties may be made at any time, but no later than, fourteen (14) days of being notified of the trustees' proposed assessment procedures for the incident or the injury.
(ii) Trustees may reject the responsible parties' proposed assessment procedures if, in the sole judgment of the trustees, the proposed assessment procedures:
(A) Are not technically feasible;
(B) Are not scientifically or technically sound;
(C) Would inadequately address the natural resources and services of concern;
(D) Could not be completed within a reasonable time frame; or
(E) Do not meet the requirements of § 990.27 of this part.
(7)
Disclosure.
Trustees must document in the administrative record and Restoration Plan the invitation to the responsible parties to participate, and briefly describe the nature and extent of the responsible parties' participation. If the responsible parties' participation is terminated during the assessment, trustees must provide a brief explanation of this decision in the administrative record and Restoration Plan.
(d)
Public.
Trustees must provide opportunities for public involvement after the trustees' decision to develop restoration plans or issuance of any notices to that effect, as provided in § 990.55 of this part. Trustees may also provide opportunities for public involvement at any time prior to this decision if such involvement may enhance trustees' decisionmaking or avoid delays in restoration.
§ 990.15
Considerations to facilitate restoration.
In addition to the procedures provided in subparts D through F of this part, trustees may take other actions to further the goal of expediting restoration of injured natural resources and services, including:
(a)
Pre-incident planning.
Trustees may engage in pre-incident planning activities. Pre-incident plans may identify natural resource damage assessment teams, establish trustee notification systems, identify support services, identify natural resources and services at risk, identify area and regional response agencies and officials, identify available baseline information, establish data management systems, and identify assessment funding
issues and options. Potentially responsible parties, as well as all other members of the public interested in and capable of participating in assessments, should be included in pre-incident planning to the fullest extent practicable.
(b)
Regional Restoration Plans.
Where practicable, incident-specific restoration plan development is preferred, however, trustees may develop Regional Restoration Plans. These plans may be used to support a claim under § 990.56 of this part. Regional restoration planning may consist of compiling databases that identify, on a regional or watershed basis, or otherwise as appropriate, existing, planned, or proposed restoration projects that may provide appropriate restoration alternatives for consideration in the context of specific incidents.

# Subpart B—Authorities
§ 990.20
Relationship to the CERCLA natural resource damage assessment regulations.
(a)
General.
Regulations for assessing natural resource damages resulting from hazardous substance releases under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), 42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.,
and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Clean Water Act), 33 U.S.C. 1321
et seq.,
are codified at 43 CFR part 11. The CERCLA regulations originally applied to natural resource damages resulting from oil discharges as well as hazardous substance releases. This part supersedes 43 CFR part 11 with regard to oil discharges covered by OPA.
(b)
Assessments commenced before February 5, 1996.
If trustees commenced a natural resource damage assessment for an oil discharge under 43 CFR part 11 prior to February 5, 1996 they may complete the assessment in compliance with 43 CFR part 11, or they may elect to use this part, and obtain a rebuttable presumption.
(c)
Oil and hazardous substance mixtures.
For natural resource damages resulting from a discharge or release of a mixture of oil and hazardous substances, trustees must use 43 CFR part 11 in order to obtain a rebuttable presumption.
§ 990.21
Relationship to the NCP.
This part provides procedures by which trustees may determine appropriate restoration of injured natural resources and services, where such injuries are not fully addressed by response actions. Response actions and the coordination with damage assessment activities are conducted pursuant to the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (NCP), 40 CFR part 300.
§ 990.22
Prohibition on double recovery.
When taking actions under this part, trustees are subject to the prohibition on double recovery, as provided in 33 U.S.C. 2706(d)(3) of OPA.
§ 990.23
Compliance with NEPA and the CEQ regulations.
(a)
General.
The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
and Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) regulations implementing NEPA, 40 CFR chapter V, apply to restoration actions by federal trustees, except where a categorical exclusion or other exception to NEPA applies. Thus, when a federal trustee proposes to take restoration actions under this part, it must integrate this part with NEPA, the CEQ regulations, and NEPA regulations promulgated by that federal trustee agency. Where state NEPA-equivalent laws may apply to state trustees, state trustees must consider the extent to which they must integrate this part with their NEPA-equivalent laws. The requirements and process described in this section relate only to NEPA and federal trustees.
(b)
NEPA requirements for federal trustees.
NEPA becomes applicable when federal trustees propose to take restoration actions, which begins with the development of a Draft Restoration Plan under § 990.55 of this part. Depending upon the circumstances of the incident, federal trustees may need to consider early involvement of the public in restoration planning in order to meet their NEPA compliance requirements.
(c)
NEPA process for federal trustees.
Although the steps in the NEPA process may vary among different federal trustees, the process will generally involve the need to develop restoration
plans in the form of an Environmental Assessment or Environmental Impact Statement, depending upon the trustee agency's own NEPA regulations.
(1)
Environmental Assessment.
(i)
Purpose.
The purpose of an Environmental Assessment (EA) is to determine whether a proposed restoration action will have a significant (as defined under NEPA and § 1508.27 of the CEQ regulations) impact on the quality of the human environment, in which case an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) evaluating the impact is required. In the alternative, where the impact will not be significant, federal trustees must issue a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) as part of the restoration plans developed under this part. If significant impacts to the human environment are anticipated, the determination to proceed with an EIS may be made as a result, or in lieu, of the development of the EA.
(ii)
General steps.
(A) If the trustees decide to pursue an EA, the trustees may issue a Notice of Intent to Prepare a Draft Restoration Plan/EA, or proceed directly to developing a Draft Restoration Plan/EA.
(B) The Draft Restoration Plan/EA must be made available for public review before concluding a FONSI or proceeding with an EIS.
(C) If a FONSI is concluded, the restoration planning process should be no different than under § 990.55 of this part, except that the Draft Restoration Plan/EA will include the FONSI analysis.
(D) The time period for public review on the Draft Restoration Plan/EA must be consistent with the federal trustee agency's NEPA requirements, but should generally be no less than thirty (30) calendar days.
(E) The Final Restoration Plan/EA must consider all public comments on the Draft Restoration Plan/EA and FONSI.
(F) The means by which a federal trustee requests, considers, and responds to public comments on the Draft Restoration Plan/EA and FONSI must also be consistent with the federal agency's NEPA requirements.
(2)
Environmental Impact Statement.
(i)
Purpose.
The purpose of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is to involve the public and facilitate the decisionmaking process in the federal trustees' analysis of alternative approaches to restoring injured natural resources and services, where the impacts of such restoration are expected to have significant impacts on the quality of the human environment.
(ii)
General steps.
(A) If trustees determine that restoration actions are likely to have a significant (as defined under NEPA and § 1508.27 of the CEQ regulations) impact on the environment, they must issue a Notice of Intent to Prepare a Draft Restoration Plan/EIS. The notice must be published in the
Federal Register.
(B) The notice must be followed by formal public involvement in the development of the Draft Restoration Plan/EIS.
(C) The Draft Restoration Plan/EIS must be made available for public review for a minimum of forty-five (45) calendar days. The Draft Restoration Plan/EIS, or a notice of its availability, must be published in the
Federal Register.
(D) The Final Restoration Plan/EIS must consider all public comments on the Draft Restoration Plan/EIS, and incorporate any changes made to the Draft Restoration Plan/EIS in response to public comments.
(E) The Final Restoration Plan/EIS must be made publicly available for a minimum of thirty (30) calendar days before a decision is made on the federal trustees' proposed restoration actions (Record of Decision). The Final Restoration Plan/EIS, or a notice of its availability, must be published in the
Federal Register.
(F) The means by which a federal trustee agency requests, considers, and responds to public comments on the Final Restoration Plan/EIS must also be consistent with the federal agency's NEPA requirements.
(G) After appropriate public review on the Final Restoration Plan/EIS is completed, a Record of Decision (ROD) is issued. The ROD summarizes the trustees' decisionmaking process after consideration of any public comments relative to the proposed restoration actions, identifies all restoration alternatives (including the preferred alternative(s)), and their environmental
consequences, and states whether all practicable means to avoid or minimize environmental harm were adopted (e.g., monitoring and corrective actions). The ROD may be incorporated with other decision documents prepared by the trustees. The means by which the ROD is made publicly available must be consistent with the federal trustee agency's NEPA requirements.
(d)
Relationship to Regional Restoration Plans or an existing restoration project.
If a Regional Restoration Plan or existing restoration project is proposed for use, federal trustees may be able to tier their NEPA analysis to an existing EIS, as described in §§ 1502.20 and 1508.28 of the CEQ regulations.
§ 990.24
Compliance with other applicable laws and regulations.
(a)
Worker health and safety.
When taking actions under this part, trustees must comply with applicable worker health and safety considerations specified in the NCP for response actions.
(b)
Natural Resources protection.
When acting under this part, trustees must ensure compliance with any applicable consultation, permitting, or review requirements, including but not limited to: the Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.;
the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, 16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.;
the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, 16 U.S.C. 703
et seq.;
the National Marine Sanctuaries Act, 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.;
the National Historic Preservation Act, 12 U.S.C. 470
et seq.;
the Marine Mammal Protection Act, 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.;
and the Archaeological Resources Protection Act, 16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.
§ 990.25
Settlement.
Trustees may settle claims for natural resource damages under this part at any time, provided that the settlement is adequate in the judgment of the trustees to satisfy the goal of OPA and is fair, reasonable, and in the public interest, with particular consideration of the adequacy of the settlement to restore, replace, rehabilitate, or acquire the equivalent of the injured natural resources and services. Sums recovered in settlement of such claims, other than reimbursement of trustee costs, may only be expended in accordance with a restoration plan, which may be set forth in whole or in part in a consent decree or other settlement agreement, which is made available for public review.
§ 990.26
Emergency restoration.
(a) Trustees may take emergency restoration action before completing the process established under this part, provided that:
(1) The action is needed to avoid irreversible loss of natural resources, or to prevent or reduce any continuing danger to natural resources or similar need for emergency action;
(2) The action will not be undertaken by the lead response agency;
(3) The action is feasible and likely to succeed;
(4) Delay of the action to complete the restoration planning process established in this part likely would result in increased natural resource damages; and
(5) The costs of the action are not unreasonable.
(b) If response actions are still underway, trustees must coordinate with the On-Scene Coordinator (OSC), consistent with the NCP, to ensure that emergency restoration actions will not interfere with or duplicate ongoing response actions. Emergency restoration may not address residual oil unless:
(1) The OSC's response is complete; or
(2) The OSC has determined that the residual oil identified by the trustee as part of a proposed emergency restoration action does not merit further response.
(c) Trustees must provide notice to identified responsible parties of any emergency restoration actions and, to the extent time permits, invite their participation in the conduct of those actions as provided in § 990.14(c) of this part.
(d) Trustees must provide notice to the public, to the extent practicable, of these planned emergency restoration actions. Trustees must also provide public notice of the justification for, nature and extent of, and results of emergency restoration actions within a reasonable time frame after completion of such actions. The means by
which this notice is provided is left to the discretion of the trustee.
[61 FR 500, Jan. 5, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 61492, Oct. 1, 2002]
§ 990.27
Use of assessment procedures.
(a)
Standards for assessment procedures.
Any procedures used pursuant to this part must comply with all of the following standards if they are to be in accordance with this part:
(1) The procedure must be capable of providing assessment information of use in determining the type and scale of restoration appropriate for a particular injury;
(2) The additional cost of a more complex procedure must be reasonably related to the expected increase in the quantity and/or quality of relevant information provided by the more complex procedure; and
(3) The procedure must be reliable and valid for the particular incident.
(b)
Assessment procedures available.
(1) The range of assessment procedures available to trustees includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Procedures conducted in the field;
(ii) Procedures conducted in the laboratory;
(iii) Model-based procedures, including type A procedures identified in 43 CFR part 11, subpart D, and compensation formulas/schedules; and
(iv) Literature-based procedures.
(2) Trustees may use the assessment procedures in paragraph (b)(1) of this section alone, or in any combination, provided that the standards in paragraph (a) of this section are met, and there is no double recovery.
(c)
Selecting assessment procedures.
(1) When selecting assessment procedures, trustees must consider, at a minimum:
(i) The range of procedures available under paragraph (b) of this section;
(ii) The time and cost necessary to implement the procedures;
(iii) The potential nature, degree, and spatial and temporal extent of the injury;
(iv) The potential restoration actions for the injury; and
(v) The relevance and adequacy of information generated by the procedures to meet information requirements of restoration planning.
(2) If a range of assessment procedures providing the same type and quality of information is available, the most cost-effective procedure must be used.

# Subpart C—Definitions
§ 990.30
Definitions.
For the purpose of this rule, the term:
Baseline
means the condition of the natural resources and services that would have existed had the incident not occurred. Baseline data may be estimated using historical data, reference data, control data, or data on incremental changes (e.g., number of dead animals), alone or in combination, as appropriate.
Cost-effective
means the least costly activity among two or more activities that provide the same or a comparable level of benefits, in the judgment of the trustees.
CEQ regulations
means the Council on Environmental Quality regulations implementing NEPA, 40 CFR chapter V.
Damages
means damages specified in section 1002(b) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 1002(b)), and includes the costs of assessing these damages, as defined in section 1001(5) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(5)).
Discharge
means any emission (other than natural seepage), intentional or unintentional, and includes, but is not limited to, spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, or dumping, as defined in section 1001(7) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(7)).
Exclusive Economic Zone
means the zone established by Presidential Proclamation 5030 of March 10, 1983 (3 CFR, 1984 Comp., p. 22), including the ocean waters of the areas referred to as “eastern special areas” in Article 3(1) of the Agreement between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Maritime Boundary, signed June 1, 1990, as defined in section 1001(8) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(8)).
Exposure
means direct or indirect contact with the discharged oil.
Facility
means any structure, group of structures, equipment, or device (other than a vessel) which is used for one or more of the following purposes:
exploring for, drilling for, producing, storing, handling, transferring, processing, or transporting oil. This term includes any motor vehicle, rolling stock, or pipeline used for one or more of these purposes, as defined in section 1001(9) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(9)).
Fund
means the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, established by section 9509 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 9509), as defined in section 1001(11) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(11)).
Incident
means any occurrence or series of occurrences having the same origin, involving one or more vessels, facilities, or any combination thereof, resulting in the discharge or substantial threat of discharge of oil into or upon navigable waters or adjoining shorelines or the Exclusive Economic Zone, as defined in section 1001(14) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(14)).
Indian tribe (or tribal)
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, but not including any Alaska Native regional or village corporation, which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians and has governmental authority over lands belonging to or controlled by the tribe, as defined in section 1001(15) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(15)).
Indirect costs
means expenses that are jointly or commonly incurred to produce two or more products or services. In contrast to direct costs, indirect costs are not specifically identifiable with any of the products or services, but are necessary for the organization to function and produce the products or services. An indirect cost rate, developed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, may be used to allocate indirect costs to specific assessment and restoration activities. Both direct and indirect costs contribute to the full cost of the assessment and restoration, as provided in this part.
Injury
means an observable or measurable adverse change in a natural resource or impairment of a natural resource service. Injury may occur directly or indirectly to a natural resource and/or service. Injury incorporates the terms “destruction,” “loss,” and “loss of use” as provided in OPA.
Lead Administrative Trustee(s) (or LAT)
means the trustee(s) who is selected by all participating trustees whose natural resources or services are injured by an incident, for the purpose of coordinating natural resource damage assessment activities. The LAT(s) should also facilitate communication between the OSC and other natural resource trustees regarding their activities during the response phase.
Legal costs
means the costs of attorney actions performed for the purpose of assessment or developing a restoration plan, in accordance with this part.
(1) When making a determination of the nature of attorneys' actions for purposes of this definition, trustees must consider whether:
(i) The action comprised all or part of an action specified either in this part or in OPA section 1006(c);
(ii) The action was performed prior to, or in the absence of, the filing of ligation by or on behalf of the trustee in question to recover damages; and
(iii) The action was performed by an attorney who was working for or on behalf of the trustee agency, as opposed to a prosecutorial agency.
(2) If all of the criteria in paragraph (1) of this definition are met, the costs associated with attorney's actions are deemed assessment costs. If the criteria are not met, the trustee must explain why the action was not performed for the primary purpose of furthering litigation in order to support a characterization of the action as an assessment action.
(3) Examples of common or routine assessment actions that may be most appropriately performed by trustee attorneys, in accordance with this part, include, but are not limited to:
(i) Providing written and oral advice on the requirements of OPA, this part, and other applicable laws;
(ii) Preparing public notices, including the Notice of Intent to Conduct Restoration Planning issued to responsible parties and the Notice of Availability of Draft Restoration Plans;
(iii) Developing and managing administrative records;
(iv) Preparing binding agreements with potentially responsible parties in
the context of the assessment, including study agreements, funding agreements, and restoration agreements;
(v) Preparing co-trustee cooperative agreements;
(vi) Preparing formal trustee determinations required under this part; and
(vii) Procuring title searches, title insurance, and/or conservation easements when property agreements are part of restoration packages.
NCP
means the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (National Contingency Plan) codified at 40 CFR part 300, which addresses the identification, investigation, study, and response to incidents, as defined in section 1001(19) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(19)).
Natural resource damage assessment (or assessment)
means the process of collecting and analyzing information to evaluate the nature and extent of injuries resulting from an incident, and determine the restoration actions needed to bring injured natural resources and services back to baseline and make the environment and public whole for interim losses.
Natural resources
means land, fish, wildlife, biota, air, water, ground water, drinking water supplies, and other such resources belonging to, managed by, held in trust by, appertaining to, or otherwise controlled by the United States (including the resources of the Exclusive Economic Zone), any state or local government or Indian tribe, or any foreign government, as defined in section 1001(20) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(20)).
Navigable waters
means the waters of the United States, including the territorial sea, as defined in section 1001(21) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(21)).
NEPA
means the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
Oil
means oil of any kind or in any form, including, but not limited to, petroleum, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse, and oil mixed with wastes other than dredged spoil. However, the term does not include petroleum, including crude oil or any fraction thereof, that is specifically listed or designated as a hazardous substance under 42 U.S.C. 9601(14)(A) through (F), as defined in section 1001(23) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(23)).
On-Scene Coordinator (or OSC)
means the official designated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the U.S. Coast Guard to coordinate and direct response actions under the NCP, or the government official designated by the lead response agency to coordinate and direct response actions under the NCP.
OPA
means the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 33 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.
Pathway
means any link that connects the incident to a natural resource and/or service, and is associated with an actual discharge of oil.
Person
means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, municipality, commission, or political subdivision of a state, or any interstate body, as defined in section 1001(27) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(27)).
Public vessel
means a vessel owned or bareboat chartered and operated by the United States, or by a state or political subdivision thereof, or by a foreign nation, except when the vessel is engaged in commerce, as defined in section 1001(29) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(29)).
Reasonable assessment costs
means, for assessments conducted under this part, assessment costs that are incurred by trustees in accordance with this part. In cases where assessment costs are incurred but trustees do not pursue restoration, trustees may recover their reasonable assessment costs provided they have determined that assessment actions undertaken were premised on the likelihood of injury and need for restoration. Reasonable assessment costs also include: administrative costs, legal costs, and other costs necessary to carry out this part; monitoring and oversight costs; costs associated with public participation; and indirect costs that are necessary to carry out this part.
Recovery
means the return of injured natural resources and services to baseline.
Response
(or
remove
or
removal
) means containment and removal of oil or a hazardous substance from water and shorelines or the taking of other actions as may be necessary to minimize or mitigate damage to the public health or welfare, including, but not limited to, fish, shellfish, wildlife, and public and private property, shorelines,
and beaches, as defined in section 1001(30) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(30)).
Responsible party
means:
(a)
Vessels.
In the case of a vessel, any person owning, operating, or demise chartering the vessel.
(b)
Onshore facilities.
In the case of an onshore facility (other than a pipeline), any person owning or operating the facility, except a federal agency, state, municipality, commission, or political subdivision of a state, or any interstate body, that as the owner transfers possession and right to use the property to another person by lease, assignment, or permit.
(c)
Offshore facilities.
In the case of an offshore facility (other than a pipeline or a deepwater port licensed under the Deepwater Port Act of 1974 (33 U.S.C. 1501
et seq.
)), the lessee or permittee of the area in which the facility is located or the holder of a right of use and easement granted under applicable state law or the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301-1356) for the area in which the facility is located (if the holder is a different person than the lessee or permittee), except a federal agency, state, municipality, commission, or political subdivision of a state, or any interstate body, that as owner transfers possession and right to use the property to another person by lease, assignment, or permit.
(d)
Deepwater ports.
In the case of a deepwater port licensed under the Deepwater Port Act of 1974 (33 U.S.C. 1501-1524), the licensee.
(e)
Pipelines.
In the case of a pipeline, any person owning or operating the pipeline.
(f)
Abandonment.
In the case of an abandoned vessel, onshore facility, deepwater port, pipeline, or offshore facility, the persons who would have been responsible parties immediately prior to the abandonment of the vessel or facility, as defined in section 1001(32) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(32)).
Restoration
means any action (or alternative), or combination of actions (or alternatives), to restore, rehabilitate, replace, or acquire the equivalent of injured natural resources and services. Restoration includes:
(a)
Primary restoration,
which is any action, including natural recovery, that returns injured natural resources and services to baseline; and
(b)
Compensatory restoration,
which is any action taken to compensate for interim losses of natural resources and services that occur from the date of the incident until recovery.
Services
(or
natural resource services
) means the functions performed by a natural resource for the benefit of another natural resource and/or the public.
Trustees
(or
natural resource trustees
) means those officials of the federal and state governments, of Indian tribes, and of foreign governments, designated under 33 U.S.C. 2706(b) of OPA.
United States
and
State
means the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, and any other territory or possession of the United States, as defined in section 1001(36) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(36)).
Value
means the maximum amount of goods, services, or money an individual is willing to give up to obtain a specific good or service, or the minimum amount of goods, services, or money an individual is willing to accept to forgo a specific good or service. The total value of a natural resource or service includes the value individuals derive from direct use of the natural resource, for example, swimming, boating, hunting, or birdwatching, as well as the value individuals derive from knowing a natural resource will be available for future generations.
Vessel
means every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water, other than a public vessel, as defined in section 1001(37) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2701(37)).
[61 FR 500, Jan. 5, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 61493, Oct. 1, 2002]

# Subpart D—Preassessment Phase
§ 990.40
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to provide a process by which trustees determine if they have jurisdiction to pursue restoration under OPA and, if so, whether it is appropriate to do so.
§ 990.41
Determination of jurisdiction.
(a)
Determination of jurisdiction.
Upon learning of an incident, trustees must determine whether there is jurisdiction to pursue restoration under OPA. To make this determination, trustees must decide if:
(1) An incident has occurred, as defined in § 990.30 of this part;
(2) The incident is not:
(i) Permitted under a permit issued under federal, state, or local law; or
(ii) From a public vessel; or
(iii) From an onshore facility subject to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authority Act, 43 U.S.C. 1651,
et seq.;
and
(3) Natural resources under the trusteeship of the trustee may have been, or may be, injured as a result of the incident.
(b)
Proceeding with preassessment.
If the conditions listed in paragraph (a) of this section are met, trustees may proceed under this part. If one of the conditions is not met, trustees may not take additional action under this part, except action to finalize this determination. Trustees may recover all reasonable assessment costs incurred up to this point provided that conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section were met and actions were taken with the reasonable belief that natural resources or services under their trusteeship might have been injured as a result of the incident.
§ 990.42
Determination to conduct restoration planning.
(a)
Determination on restoration planning.
If trustees determine that there is jurisdiction to pursue restoration under OPA, trustees must determine whether:
(1) Injuries have resulted, or are likely to result, from the incident;
(2) Response actions have not adequately addressed, or are not expected to address, the injuries resulting from the incident; and
(3) Feasible primary and/or compensatory restoration actions exist to address the potential injuries.
(b)
Proceeding with preassessment.
If the conditions listed in paragraph (a) of this section are met, trustees may proceed under § 990.44 of this part. If one of these conditions is not met, trustees may not take additional action under this part, except action to finalize this determination. However, trustees may recover all reasonable assessment costs incurred up to this point.
§ 990.43
Data collection.
Trustees may conduct data collection and analyses that are reasonably related to Preassessment Phase activities. Data collection and analysis during the Preassessment Phase must be coordinated with response actions such that collection and analysis does not interfere with response actions. Trustees may collect and analyze the following types of data during the Preassessment Phase:
(a) Data reasonably expected to be necessary to make a determination of jurisdiction under § 990.41 of this part, or a determination to conduct restoration planning under § 990.42 of this part;
(b) Ephemeral data; and
(c) Information needed to design or implement anticipated assessment procedures under subpart E of this part.
§ 990.44
Notice of Intent to Conduct Restoration Planning.
(a)
General.
If trustees determine that all the conditions under § 990.42(a) of this part are met and trustees decide to proceed with the natural resource damage assessment, they must prepare a Notice of Intent to Conduct Restoration Planning.
(b)
Contents of the notice.
The Notice of Intent to Conduct Restoration Planning must include a discussion of the trustees' analyses under §§ 990.41 and 990.42 of this part. Depending on information available at this point, the notice may include the trustees' proposed strategy to assess injury and determine the type and scale of restoration. The contents of a notice may vary, but will typically discuss:
(1) The facts of the incident;
(2) Trustee authority to proceed with the assessment;
(3) Natural resources and services that are, or are likely to be, injured as a result of the incident;
(4) Potential restoration actions relevant to the expected injuries; and
(5) If determined at the time, potential assessment procedures to evaluate the injuries and define the appropriate type and scale of restoration for the injured natural resources and services.
(c)
Public availability of the notice.
Trustees must make a copy of the Notice of Intent to Conduct Restoration Planning publicly available. The means by which the notice is made publicly available and whether public comments are solicited on the notice will depend on the nature and extent of the incident and various information requirements, and is left to the discretion of the trustees.
(d)
Delivery of the notice to the responsible parties.
Trustees must send a copy of the notice to the responsible parties, to the extent known, in such a way as will establish the date of receipt, and invite responsible parties' participation in the conduct of restoration planning. Consistent with § 990.14(c) of this part, the determination of the timing, nature, and extent of responsible party participation will be determined by the trustees on an incident-specific basis.
§ 990.45
Administrative record.
(a) If trustees decide to proceed with restoration planning, they must open a publicly available administrative record to document the basis for their decisions pertaining to restoration. The administrative record should be opened concurrently with the publication of the Notice of Intent to Conduct Restoration Planning. Depending on the nature and extent of the incident and assessment, the administrative record should include documents relied upon during the assessment, such as:
(1) Any notice, draft and final restoration plans, and public comments;
(2) Any relevant data, investigation reports, scientific studies, work plans, quality assurance plans, and literature; and
(3) Any agreements, not otherwise privileged, among the participating trustees or with the responsible parties.
(b) Federal trustees should maintain the administrative record in a manner consistent with the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 551-59, 701-06.

# Subpart E—Restoration Planning Phase
§ 990.50
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to provide a process by which trustees evaluate and quantify potential injuries (injury assessment), and use that information to determine the need for and scale of restoration actions (restoration selection).
§ 990.51
Injury assessment—injury determination.
(a)
General.
After issuing a Notice of Intent to Conduct Restoration Planning under § 990.44 of this part, trustees must determine if injuries to natural resources and/or services have resulted from the incident.
(b)
Determining injury.
To make the determination of injury, trustees must evaluate if:
(1) The definition of injury has been met, as defined in § 990.30 of this part; and
(2)(i) An injured natural resource has been exposed to the discharged oil, and a pathway can be established from the discharge to the exposed natural resource; or
(ii) An injury to a natural resource or impairment of a natural resource service has occurred as a result of response actions or a substantial threat of a discharge of oil.
(c)
Identifying injury.
Trustees must determine whether an injury has occurred and, if so, identify the nature of the injury. Potential categories of injury include, but are not limited to, adverse changes in: survival, growth, and reproduction; health, physiology and biological condition; behavior; community composition; ecological processes and functions; physical and chemical habitat quality or structure; and public services.
(d)
Establishing exposure and pathway.
Except for injuries resulting from response actions or incidents involving a substantial threat of a discharge of oil,
trustees must establish whether natural resources were exposed, either directly or indirectly, to the discharged oil from the incident, and estimate the amount or concentration and spatial and temporal extent of the exposure. Trustees must also determine whether there is a pathway linking the incident to the injuries. Pathways may include, but are not limited to, the sequence of events by which the discharged oil was transported from the incident and either came into direct physical contact with a natural resource, or caused an indirect injury.
(e)
Injuries resulting from response actions or incidents involving a substantial threat of a discharge.
For injuries resulting from response actions or incidents involving a substantial threat of a discharge of oil, trustees must determine whether an injury or an impairment of a natural resource service has occurred as a result of the incident.
(f)
Selection of injuries to include in the assessment.
When selecting potential injuries to assess, trustees should consider factors such as:
(1) The natural resources and services of concern;
(2) The procedures available to evaluate and quantify injury, and associated time and cost requirements;
(3) The evidence indicating exposure;
(4) The pathway from the incident to the natural resource and/or service of concern;
(5) The adverse change or impairment that constitutes injury;
(6) The evidence indicating injury;
(7) The mechanism by which injury occurred;
(8) The potential degree, and spatial and temporal extent of the injury;
(9) The potential natural recovery period; and
(10) The kinds of primary and/or compensatory restoration actions that are feasible.
§ 990.52
Injury assessment—quantification.
(a)
General.
In addition to determining whether injuries have resulted from the incident, trustees must quantify the degree, and spatial and temporal extent of such injuries relative to baseline.
(b)
Quantification approaches.
Trustees may quantify injuries in terms of:
(1) The degree, and spatial and temporal extent of the injury to a natural resource;
(2) The degree, and spatial and temporal extent of injury to a natural resource, with subsequent translation of that adverse change to a reduction in services provided by the natural resource; or
(3) The amount of services lost as a result of the incident.
(c)
Natural recovery.
To quantify injury, trustees must estimate, quantitatively or qualitatively, the time for natural recovery without restoration, but including any response actions. The analysis of natural recovery may consider such factors as:
(1) The nature, degree, and spatial and temporal extent of injury;
(2) The sensitivity and vulnerability of the injured natural resource and/or service;
(3) The reproductive and recruitment potential;
(4) The resistance and resilience (stability) of the affected environment;
(5) The natural variability; and
(6) The physical/chemical processes of the affected environment.
§ 990.53
Restoration selection—developing restoration alternatives.
(a)
General.
(1) If the information on injury determination and quantification under §§ 990.51 and 990.52 of this part and its relevance to restoration justify restoration, trustees may proceed with the Restoration Planning Phase. Otherwise, trustees may not take additional action under this part. However, trustees may recover all reasonable assessment costs incurred up to this point.
(2) Trustees must consider a reasonable range of restoration alternatives before selecting their preferred alternative(s). Each restoration alternative is comprised of primary and/or compensatory restoration components that address one or more specific injury(ies) associated with the incident. Each alternative must be designed so that, as a package of one or more actions, the
alternative would make the environment and public whole. Only those alternatives considered technically feasible and in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, or permits may be considered further under this part.
(b)
Primary restoration
—(1)
General.
For each alternative, trustees must consider primary restoration actions, including a natural recovery alternative.
(2)
Natural recovery.
Trustees must consider a natural recovery alternative in which no human intervention would be taken to directly restore injured natural resources and services to baseline.
(3)
Active primary restoration actions.
Trustees must consider an alternative comprised of actions to directly restore the natural resources and services to baseline on an accelerated time frame. When identifying such active primary restoration actions, trustees may consider actions that:
(i) Address conditions that would prevent or limit the effectiveness of any restoration action;
(ii) May be necessary to return the physical, chemical, and/or biological conditions necessary to allow recovery or restoration of the injured natural resources (e.g., replacing substrate or vegetation, or modifying hydrologic conditions); or
(iii) Return key natural resources and services, and would be an effective approach to achieving or accelerating a return to baseline (e.g., replacing essential species, habitats, or public services that would facilitate the replacement of other, dependent natural resource or service components).
(c)
Compensatory restoration
—(1)
General.
For each alternative, trustees must also consider compensatory restoration actions to compensate for the interim loss of natural resources and services pending recovery.
(2)
Compensatory restoration actions.
To the extent practicable, when evaluating compensatory restoration actions, trustees must consider compensatory restoration actions that provide services of the same type and quality, and of comparable value as those injured. If, in the judgment of the trustees, compensatory actions of the same type and quality and comparable value cannot provide a reasonable range of alternatives, trustees should identify actions that provide natural resources and services of comparable type and quality as those provided by the injured natural resources. Where the injured and replacement natural resources and services are not of comparable value, the scaling process will involve valuation of lost and replacement services.
(d)
Scaling restoration actions
—(1)
General.
After trustees have identified the types of restoration actions that will be considered, they must determine the scale of those actions that will make the environment and public whole. For primary restoration actions, scaling generally applies to actions involving replacement and/or acquisition of equivalent of natural resources and/or services.
(2)
Resource-to-resource and service-to-service scaling approaches.
When determining the scale of restoration actions that provide natural resources and/or services of the same type and quality, and of comparable value as those lost, trustees must consider the use of a resource-to-resource or service-to-service scaling approach. Under this approach, trustees determine the scale of restoration actions that will provide natural resources and/or services equal in quantity to those lost.
(3)
Valuation scaling approach.
(i) Where trustees have determined that neither resource-to-resource nor service-to-service scaling is appropriate, trustees may use the valuation scaling approach. Under the valuation scaling approach, trustees determine the amount of natural resources and/or services that must be provided to produce the same value lost to the public. Trustees must explicitly measure the value of injured natural resources and/or services, and then determine the scale of the restoration action necessary to produce natural resources and/or services of equivalent value to the public.
(ii) If, in the judgment of the trustees, valuation of the lost services is practicable, but valuation of the replacement natural resources and/or services cannot be performed within a reasonable time frame or at a reasonable cost, as determined by § 990.27(a)(2)
of this part, trustees may estimate the dollar value of the lost services and select the scale of the restoration action that has a cost equivalent to the lost value. The responsible parties may request that trustees value the natural resources and services provided by the restoration action following the process described in § 990.14(c) of this part.
(4)
Discounting and uncertainty.
When scaling a restoration action, trustees must evaluate the uncertainties associated with the projected consequences of the restoration action, and must discount all service quantities and/or values to the date the demand is presented to the responsible parties. Where feasible, trustees should use risk-adjusted measures of losses due to injury and of gains from the restoration action, in conjunction with a riskless discount rate representing the consumer rate of time preference. If the streams of losses and gains cannot be adequately adjusted for risks, then trustees may use a discount rate that incorporates a suitable risk adjustment to the riskless rate.
[61 FR 500, Jan. 5, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 61493, Oct. 1, 2002]
§ 990.54
Restoration selection—evaluation of alternatives.
(a)
Evaluation standards.
Once trustees have developed a reasonable range of restoration alternatives under § 990.53 of this part, they must evaluate the proposed alternatives based on, at a minimum:
(1) The cost to carry out the alternative;
(2) The extent to which each alternative is expected to meet the trustees' goals and objectives in returning the injured natural resources and services to baseline and/or compensating for interim losses;
(3) The likelihood of success of each alternative;
(4) The extent to which each alternative will prevent future injury as a result of the incident, and avoid collateral injury as a result of implementing the alternative;
(5) The extent to which each alternative benefits more than one natural resource and/or service; and
(6) The effect of each alternative on public health and safety.
(b)
Preferred restoration alternatives.
Based on an evaluation of the factors under paragraph (a) of this section, trustees must select a preferred restoration alternative(s). If the trustees conclude that two or more alternatives are equally preferable based on these factors, the trustees must select the most cost-effective alternative.
(c)
Pilot projects.
Where additional information is needed to identify and evaluate the feasibility and likelihood of success of restoration alternatives, trustees may implement restoration pilot projects. Pilot projects should only be undertaken when, in the judgment of the trustees, these projects are likely to provide the information, described in paragraph (a) of this section, at a reasonable cost and in a reasonable time frame.
§ 990.55
Restoration selection—developing restoration plans.
(a)
General.
OPA requires that damages be based upon a plan developed with opportunity for public review and comment. To meet this requirement, trustees must, at a minimum, develop a Draft and Final Restoration Plan, with an opportunity for public review of and comment on the draft plan.
(b)
Draft Restoration Plan.
(1) The Draft Restoration Plan should include:
(i) A summary of injury assessment procedures used;
(ii) A description of the nature, degree, and spatial and temporal extent of injuries resulting from the incident;
(iii) The goals and objectives of restoration;
(iv) The range of restoration alternatives considered, and a discussion of how such alternatives were developed under § 990.53 of this part, and evaluated under § 990.54 of this part;
(v) Identification of the trustees' tentative preferred alternative(s);
(vi) A description of past and proposed involvement of the responsible parties in the assessment; and
(vii) A description of monitoring for documenting restoration effectiveness, including performance criteria that will be used to determine the success of restoration or need for interim corrective action.
(2) When developing the Draft Restoration Plan, trustees must establish
restoration objectives that are specific to the injuries. These objectives should clearly specify the desired outcome, and the performance criteria by which successful restoration will be judged. Performance criteria may include structural, functional, temporal, and/or other demonstrable factors. Trustees must, at a minimum, determine what criteria will:
(i) Constitute success, such that responsible parties are relieved of responsibility for further restoration actions; or
(ii) Necessitate corrective actions in order to comply with the terms of a restoration plan or settlement agreement.
(3) The monitoring component to the Draft Restoration Plan should address such factors as duration and frequency of monitoring needed to gauge progress and success, level of sampling needed to detect success or the need for corrective action, and whether monitoring of a reference or control site is needed to determine progress and success. Reasonable monitoring and oversight costs cover those activities necessary to gauge the progress, performance, and success of the restoration actions developed under the plan.
(c)
Public review and comment.
The nature of public review and comment on the Draft and Final Restoration Plans will depend on the nature of the incident and any applicable federal trustee NEPA requirements, as described in §§ 990.14(d) and 990.23 of this part.
(d)
Final Restoration Plan.
Trustees must develop a Final Restoration Plan that includes the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section, responses to public comments, if applicable, and an indication of any changes made to the Draft Restoration Plan.
§ 990.56
Restoration selection—use of a Regional Restoration Plan or existing restoration project.
(a)
General.
Trustees may consider using a Regional Restoration Plan or existing restoration project where such a plan or project is determined to be the preferred alternative among a range of feasible restoration alternatives for an incident, as determined under § 990.54 of this part. Such plans or projects must be capable of fulfilling OPA's intent for the trustees to restore, rehabilitate, replace, or acquire the equivalent of the injured natural resources and services and compensate for interim losses.
(b)
Existing plans or projects
—(1)
Considerations.
Trustees may select a component of a Regional Restoration Plan or an existing restoration project as the preferred alternative, provided that the plan or project:
(i) Was developed with public review and comment or is subject to public review and comment under this part;
(ii) Will adequately compensate the environment and public for injuries resulting from the incident;
(iii) Addresses, and is currently relevant to, the same or comparable natural resources and services as those identified as having been injured; and
(iv) Allows for reasonable scaling relative to the incident.
(2)
Demand.
(i) If the conditions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section are met, the trustees must invite the responsible parties to implement that component of the Regional Restoration Plan or existing restoration project, or advance to the trustees the trustees' reasonable estimate of the cost of implementing that component of the Regional Restoration Plan or existing restoration project.
(ii) If the conditions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section are met, but the trustees determine that the scale of the existing plan or project is greater than the scale of compensation required by the incident, trustees may only request funding from the responsible parties equivalent to the scale of the restoration determined to be appropriate for the incident of concern. Trustees may pool such partial recoveries until adequate funding is available to successfully implement the existing plan or project.
(3)
Notice of Intent To Use a Regional Restoration Plan or Existing Restoration Project.
If trustees intend to use an appropriate component of a Regional Restoration Plan or existing restoration project, they must prepare a Notice of Intent to Use a Regional Restoration Plan or Existing Restoration Project. Trustees must make a copy of the notice publicly available. The notice must include, at a minimum:
(i) A description of the nature, degree, and spatial and temporal extent of injuries; and
(ii) A description of the relevant component of the Regional Restoration Plan or existing restoration project; and
(iii) An explanation of how the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are met.

# Subpart F—Restoration Implementation Phase
§ 990.60
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to provide a process for implementing restoration.
§ 990.61
Administrative record.
(a)
Closing the administrative record for restoration planning.
Within a reasonable time after the trustees have completed restoration planning, as provided in §§ 990.55 and 990.56 of this part, they must close the administrative record. Trustees may not add documents to the administrative record once it is closed, except where such documents:
(1) Are offered by interested parties that did not receive actual or constructive notice of the Draft Restoration Plan and the opportunity to comment on the plan;
(2) Do not duplicate information already contained in the administrative record; and
(3) Raise significant issues regarding the Final Restoration Plan.
(b)
Opening an administrative record for restoration implementation.
Trustees may open an administrative record for implementation of restoration, as provided in § 990.45 of this part. The costs associated with the administrative record are part of the costs of restoration. Ordinarily, the administrative record for implementation of restoration should document, at a minimum, all Restoration Implementation Phase decisions, actions, and expenditures, including any modifications made to the Final Restoration Plan.
§ 990.62
Presenting a demand.
(a)
General.
After closing the administrative record for restoration planning, trustees must present a written demand to the responsible parties. Delivery of the demand should be made in a manner that establishes the date of receipt by the responsible parties.
(b)
When a Final Restoration Plan has been developed.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section and in § 990.14(c) of this part, the demand must invite the responsible parties to either:
(1) Implement the Final Restoration Plan subject to trustee oversight and reimburse the trustees for their assessment and oversight costs; or
(2) Advance to the trustees a specified sum representing all trustee direct and indirect costs of assessment and restoration, discounted as provided in § 990.63(a) of this part.
(c)
Regional Restoration Plan or existing restoration project.
When the trustees use a Regional Restoration Plan or an existing restoration project under § 990.56 of this part, the demand will invite the responsible parties to implement a component of a Regional Restoration Plan or existing restoration project, or advance the trustees' estimate of damages based on the scale of the restoration determined to be appropriate for the incident of concern, which may be the entire project or a portion thereof.
(d)
Response to demand.
The responsible parties must respond within ninety (90) calendar days in writing by paying or providing binding assurance they will reimburse trustees' assessment costs and implement the plan or pay assessment costs and the trustees' estimate of the costs of implementation.
(e)
Additional contents of demand.
The demand must also include:
(1) Identification of the incident from which the claim arises;
(2) Identification of the trustee(s) asserting the claim and a statement of the statutory basis for trusteeship;
(3) A brief description of the injuries for which the claim is being brought;
(4) An index to the administrative record;
(5) The Final Restoration Plan or Notice of Intent to Use a Regional Restoration Plan or Existing Restoration Project; and
(6) A request for reimbursement of:
(i) Reasonable assessment costs, as defined in § 990.30 of this part and discounted as provided in § 990.63(b) of this part;
(ii) The cost, if any, of conducting emergency restoration under § 990.26 of this part, discounted as provided in § 990.63(b) of this part; and
(iii) Interest on the amounts recoverable, as provided in section 1005 of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2705), which allows for prejudgment and post-judgment interest to be paid at a commercial paper rate, starting from thirty (30) calendar days from the date a demand is presented until the date the claim is paid.
(f)
Cost accounting procedures.
Trustees must use methods consistent with generally accepted accounting principles and the requirements of § 990.27 of this part in determining past assessment and restoration costs incurred by trustees. When cost accounting for these costs, trustees must compound these costs using the guidance in § 990.63(b) of this part.
(g)
Cost estimating procedures.
Trustees must use methods consistent with generally accepted cost estimating principles and meet the standards of § 990.27 of this part in estimating future costs that will be incurred to implement a restoration plan. Trustees also must apply discounting methodologies in estimating costs using the guidance in § 990.63(a) of this part.
[61 FR 500, Jan. 5, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 61493, Oct. 1, 2002]
§ 990.63
Discounting and compounding.
(a)
Estimated future restoration costs.
When determining estimated future costs of implementing a Final Restoration Plan, trustees must discount such future costs back to the date the demand is presented. Trustees may use a discount rate that represents the yield on recoveries available to trustees. The price indices used to project future inflation should reflect the major components of the restoration costs.
(b)
Past assessment and emergency restoration costs.
When calculating the present value of assessment and emergency restoration costs already incurred, trustees must compound the costs forward to the date the demand is presented. To perform the compounding, trustees may use the actual U.S. Treasury borrowing rate on marketable securities of comparable maturity to the period of analysis. For costs incurred by state or tribal trustees, trustees may compound using parallel state or tribal borrowing rates.
(c) Trustees are referred to Appendices B and C of OMB Circular A-94 for information about U.S. Treasury rates of various maturities and guidance in calculation procedures. Copies of Appendix C, which is regularly updated, and of the Circular are available from the OMB Publications Office (202-395-7332).
§ 990.64
Unsatisfied demands.
(a) If the responsible parties do not agree to the demand within ninety (90) calendar days after trustees present the demand, the trustees may either file a judicial action for damages or present the uncompensated claim for damages to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, as provided in section 1012(a)(4) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2712(a)(4)) or seek an appropriation from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund as provided in section 1012(a)(2) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2712(a)(2)).
(b) Judicial actions and claims must be filed within three (3) years after the Final Restoration Plan or Notice of Intent to Use a Regional Restoration Plan or Existing Restoration Project is made publicly available, in accordance with 33 U.S.C. 2717(f)(1)(B) and 2712(h)(2).
[61 FR 500, Jan. 5, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 61493, Oct. 1, 2002]
§ 990.65
Opening an account for recovered damages.
(a)
General.
Sums recovered by trustees in satisfaction of a natural resource damage claim must be placed in a revolving trust account. Sums recovered for past assessment costs and emergency restoration costs may be used to reimburse the trustees. All other sums must be used to implement the Final Restoration Plan or all or an appropriate component of a Regional Restoration Plan or an existing restoration project.
(b)
Joint trustee recoveries
—(1)
General.
Trustees may establish a joint account for damages recovered pursuant to
joint assessment activities, such as an account under the registry of the applicable federal court.
(2)
Management.
Trustees may develop enforceable agreements to govern management of joint accounts, including agreed-upon criteria and procedures, and personnel for authorizing expenditures out of such joint accounts.
(c)
Interest-bearing accounts.
Trustees may place recoveries in interest-bearing revolving trust accounts, as provided by section 1006(f) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2706(f)). Interest earned on such accounts may only be used for restoration.
(d)
Escrow accounts.
Trustees may establish escrow accounts or other investment accounts.
(e)
Records.
Trustees must maintain appropriate accounting and reporting procedures to document expenditures from accounts established under this section.
(f)
Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund.
Any sums remaining in an account established under this section that are not used either to reimburse trustees for past assessment and emergency restoration costs or to implement restoration must be deposited in the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, as provided by section 1006(f) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2706(f)).
§ 990.66
Additional considerations.
(a) Upon settlement of a claim, trustees should consider the following actions to facilitate implementation of restoration:
(1) Establish a trustee committee and/or memorandum of understanding or other agreement to coordinate among affected trustees, as provided in § 990.14(a)(3) of this part;
(2) Develop more detailed workplans to implement restoration;
(3) Monitor and oversee restoration; and
(4) Evaluate restoration success and the need for corrective action.
(b) The reasonable costs of such actions are included as restoration costs.

# SUBCHAPTER F—QUALITY ASSURANCE AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR NOAA HYDROGRAPHIC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
Pt. 995

# PART 995—CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR DISTRIBUTORS OF NOAA HYDROGRAPHIC PRODUCTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
995.1
Purpose and scope.
995.2
Incorporation by reference.
995.3
Availability of other publications.
995.4
Definitions.
995.5
Abbreviations.
995.6
Fees.
995.7
Liability.

# Subpart B—Certification and Procedures
995.10
Correspondence and applications.
995.11
Government review and approval.
995.12
Certification designation.
995.13
Transfer of certification.
995.14
Auditing.
995.15
Termination of certification.
995.16
Term of certification.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Certified Distributors and Value Added Distributors of NOAA ENC Products
995.20
General.
995.21
Registry of data users.
995.22
Training of data users.
995.23
Acquisition of data.
995.24
Distribution of data.
995.25
Quality management system.
995.26
Conversion of NOAA ENC ® files to other formats.
995.27
Format validation software testing.
995.28
Use of NOAA emblem.
995.29
Limitation on endorsements.
Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 995—Certification Application Templates

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 892b(b)(1).

# Source:
70 FR 52909, Sept. 6, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 995.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) produces electronic navigational charts (ENCs) as one of its products under its Nautical Charting Program. According to Federal regulations, official NOAA ENCs ® meet nautical chart carriage requirements when used in a type-approved display system, such as an Electronic Chart Display and Information System (ECDIS). NOAA distributes these official ENCs to the public for free over its Web site on the Internet. This Part establishes the requirements by which entities may be certified to download, redistribute, repackage, or in some cases reformat, official NOAA ENCs and retain the NOAA ENC's official status. When a NOAA ENC ® retains its official status, it will comply with Federal chart carriage requirements. These requirements for re-distributing NOAA ENC data or incorporating it into value-added navigational products are to ensure the quality and content of official NOAA ENCs remains intact throughout the redistribution process. No other processes result in redistributed NOAA ENC products that comply with Federal chart carriage requirements.
(b) Two types of certification are offered. The first type, “Certified NOAA ENC Distributor” (CED), covers NOAA ENC downloading, exact copying, and redistribution of those copies. The second type, “Certified NOAA ENC Value Added Distributor” (CEVAD), permits reformatting official NOAA ENCs into a System Electronic Navigational Chart (SENC) using type-approved software, and distribution of that SENC. Both types of certification permit, but do not require, compression, encryption, and packaging with other data. Because NOAA ENC ® data is the primary concern of this rule, and it is mandatory for certification that the official NOAA ENCs remain unaltered for positional accuracy and informational content, NOAA is, in effect, certifying that a CED's or CEVAD's products contain official NOAA ENC data, and therefore meets chart carriage requirements.
(c) Any entity may continue to download from an official NOAA ENC ® Web site and use NOAA ENCs for any
purpose. As long as it is not redistributed, that ENC will still be considered as official Federal data. If the NOAA ENC is successfully imported unaltered into a type-approved system, it will comply with Federal nautical chart carriage requirements. While without certification anyone can download an official NOAA ENC for any use, if a NOAA ENC ® is redistributed by an uncertified entity to another entity, the NOAA ENC is no longer considered as official Federal data and thus does not comply with Federal chart carriage requirements. An example follows.
(1) One example is if an uncertified individual downloads a NOAA ENC and uses it according to Federal requirements, that individual will be meeting Federal chart carriage requirements. If an uncertified tug boat company has 9 boats in its fleet and an individual on one of the boats downloads a NOAA ENC and uses it according to Federal requirements that individual will be meeting Federal chart carriage requirements. However, if that same uncertified tug boat company downloads a NOAA ENC and redistributes it to its 9 boats, the NOAA ENC will not be considered official Federal data and therefore the 9 boats will not be meeting Federal carriage requirements. The company should become a CED or CEVAD under this part in order to be able to redistribute NOAA ENC's and retain the official status of those ENC's.
(2) To reiterate, NOAA ENCs must not be redistributed by an uncertified entity if the end output needs to have official NOAA ENCs in it that will comply with Federal carriage requirements. Any company, entity or individual must be certified if the goal is to redistribute NOAA ENCs and have those NOAA ENCs remain as official Federal data and as such continue to meet Federal carriage requirements administered by the Coast Guard.
§ 995.2
Incorporation by reference.
Certain material listed in this section is incorporated by reference with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The materials listed in this section are incorporated by reference in the corresponding sections noted. The materials are available for purchase at the corresponding addresses noted below, and all are available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) or at the U.S. Department of Commerce, 1401 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(a) The material listed below is available for purchase from the International Hydrographic Bureau, 4 quai Antoine 1er, B.P. 445, MC 98011 MONACO CEDEX; telephone: (377) 93.10.81.00; fax: (377) 93.10.81.40; e-mail:
info@ihb.mc.
Orders may be submitted by letter, fax, or e-mail.
(1) IHO Technical Resolution A3.11—“ENC/SENC Distribution Option”, as published in the “Resolutions of the International Hydrographic Organization” updated June 2005, incorporation by reference approved for § 995.26.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) [Reserved]
§ 995.3
Availability of other publications.
(a) For further guidance you may obtain the following:
(1) IEC 61174—The International Electrotechnical Commission identified and described the necessary performance tests and checks for an International Maritime Organization (IMO) compliant ECDIS. The IMO Performance Standards permit National Maritime Safety Administrations to consider ECDIS as the functional equivalent to charts required by Regulation V, Chapter 20 of the 1974 SOLAS Convention. IEC Publication 61174, dated August 1998, can be purchased from the IEC Web site:
http://www.iec.ch.
(2) IHO Special Publication S57—The IHO Transfer Standard for Hydrographic Data, edition 3.1, dated November 2000, describes the data structure and format to be used for the exchange of ENC data, product specification for the production of ENC data, and an updating profile. IHO S-57 documentation is available for free download at
http://www.iho.shom.fr.
Send written requests
to the International Hydrographic Bureau, 4 quai Antoine 1er, B.P. 445, MC 98011 MONACO CEDEX; telephone: (377) 93.10.81.00; e-mail:
info@ihb.mc.
(3) IHO Special Publication S58—The IHO Validation Checks for Hydrographic Data, edition 2.0, dated October 2003, describes the validation checks to be used on ENC data. This document was formally published as S-57 Appendix B.1, Annex C, but has been renamed to S-58 due to the S-57 publication having been frozen (
i.e.
will not change) for a fixed time period. IHO S-58 documentation is available for free download at
http://www.iho.shom.fr.
Send written requests to the International Hydrographic Bureau, 4 quai Antoine 1er, B.P. 445, MC 98011 MONACO CEDEX; telephone: (377) 93.10.81.00; e-mail:
info@ihb.mc.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 995.4
Definitions.
Certified NOAA ENC Distributor (CED)
means an entity that is certified as a distributor of NOAA ENC files by NOAA. This certification indicates that the distributor meets certain requirements (in Subparts A, B, and D of this part) that ensure timely and accurate dissemination of NOAA ENC data.
Certified NOAA ENC Value Added Distributor (CEVAD)
means an entity that creates a derived product that has been produced from NOAA ENC files using a process certified by NOAA. This certification indicates that the CEVAD meets certain requirements (in Subparts A, C, and D of this part) that ensure timely and accurate dissemination of NOAA ENC data in a non-ENC format.
Derived product
means a navigational product produced by transforming the NOAA ENC files to another format while preserving the content and accuracy. It may contain information from other sources.
Distributor
means a person or company that redistributes a NOAA ENC to end users in its original format.
Electronic Chart Display and Information System (ECDIS)
means the internationally adopted computer-assisted navigation system which, when complying with all of the required specifications, can be accepted as the up-to-date chart required by V/20 of the 1974 SOLAS Convention.
Electronic Navigational Chart (ENC)
means a database, standardized as to content, structure, and format, issued for use with ECDIS on the authority of government authorized hydrographic offices. The ENC contains all the chart information necessary for safe navigation and may contain supplementary information in addition to that contained in the paper chart (e.g., sailing directions), which may be considered necessary for safe navigation.
Entity
means one person, one person within a company, or one company.
NOAA ENC
® means Electronic Navigational Charts produced by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. NOAA ENC files comply with the IHO S-57 standard, Edition 3.1 and the ENC Product Specification. The phrase “NOAA ENC” is a registered trademark and may not be used without permission.
Redistributed
means to distribute again, either as a direct copy or in a different way. A redistributed NOAA ENC is one that has been downloaded from an official NOAA ENC Web site by one entity and provided to another entity.
System Electronic Navigational Chart (SENC)
means a database resulting from the transformation of the ENC by ECDIS for appropriate use, updates to the ENC by appropriate means and other data added by the mariner. It is this database that is actually accessed by ECDIS for the display generation and other navigational functions, and is equivalent to an up-to-date paper chart. The SENC may also contain information from other sources.
Value Added Distributor
means a person or company that redistributes a NOAA ENC with additional data included or in a different format to create newly derived products used by end users.
§ 995.5
Abbreviations.
CED Certified NOAA ENC Distributor
CEVAD Certified NOAA ENC Value Added Distributor
CRC Cyclical Redundancy Checksum
ECDIS Electronic Chart Display and Information System
ENC Electronic Navigational Chart
IEC International Electrotechnical Commission
IHO International Hydrographic Organization
IMO International Maritime Organization
ISO International Organization for Standardization
NOAA National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
NOS National Ocean Service
OCS Office of Coast Survey
SENC System Electronic Navigational Chart
SOLAS Safety of Life at Sea
VAD Value Added Distributor
§ 995.6
Fees.
(a) The Office of Coast Survey, NOAA, may charge a fee for costs incurred to process each request for certification pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 892b(b)(1)(C) and 892b(b)(2). The amount of the fee, if one is charged, will be determined by the Director, Office of Coast Survey, and charged to all Applicants based on the time and effort involved.
(b) If a fee is charged, it will be charged for each application for certification submitted by an Applicant. A fee may also be charged for resubmissions of revised requests that were initially unacceptable and are sent in within 90 days as described in § 995.11(b)(2).
§ 995.7
Liability.
Distributors and value added distributors certified under this part shall indemnify and hold harmless the U.S. Government for any loss, claim, damage, or liability of any kind, the extent caused by the negligence of certified distributors or value added distributors or their employees, arising out of the use by a distributor or value added distributor, or any party acting on its behalf or under its authorization, of NOAA data.

# Subpart B—Certification and Procedures
§ 995.10
Correspondence and applications.
(a) Distributors or value-added distributors desiring certification from NOAA shall provide a written request and application for certification to the Office of Coast Survey, Attention: Distribution Certification, N/CS, 1315 East West Highway, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910. Such a distributor or value-added distributor is hereafter referred to as Applicant. The Office of Coast Survey (OCS) is the approving office for certification under these requirements.
(b) Applicant shall provide an application for certification that describes how each element in the applicable sections of this part has been met. The application will also contain an acknowledgment, signed by a company principal, of all terms and conditions described in this part.
(c) Applicant shall use the appropriate template provided in Appendix A to subpart C of this part to prepare their request for certification.
(d) Applicant shall provide, with its application, a point of contact with mailing address, phone number, and e-mail address. Applicant shall immediately notify NOAA, through the Office of Coast Survey, of any changes to point of contact information. Failure to do so will be considered a violation of this part and may lead to termination of certification.
§ 995.11
Government review and approval.
(a) An application will be reviewed by NOAA within 90 days of receipt. If all requirements, as defined by this part, are adequately addressed, certification will be granted. If for any reason NOAA will be unable to process the application for certification within the 90-day time frame, Applicant will be notified and a revised date will be provided for a decision on the request.
(b)(1) NOAA will determine if the request for certification is complete and that it demonstrates that Applicant has met all of the applicable requirements described in this part.
(2) In the event that a request is incomplete or does not demonstrate that Applicant has met all of the applicable requirements, NOAA will consider the application unacceptable. NOAA will notify the Applicant of the deficiencies in writing. Applicant may re-submit a revised application within 90 days of receipt of NOAA's denial notice. NOAA will review applications received within the 90-day resubmission period in the time frame described in paragraph
(a) of this section. After the second review, if the application is still unacceptable, Applicant will be again notified of the deficiencies in writing and the process continues as stated is this section.
§ 995.12
Certification designation.
An Applicant that has been certified by NOAA as a CED may use the phrase “Certified NOAA ENC Distributor” on products and marketing materials. An Applicant that has been certified by NOAA as a CEVAD may use the phrase “Certified NOAA ENC Value Added Distributor” on products and marketing materials. Use of these phrases must include labeling to identify the product's contents and suitable use. (See § 995.24(a)(4), (5) and (6) and (b)(3), (4) and (5)). Use of the NOAA emblem is described in § 995.28 and is not automatically granted with certification.
§ 995.13
Transfer of certification.
A CED or CEVAD may not transfer its certification to another entity. If it is transferred the existing certification will be terminated.
(a) If prior to certification it is known that another entity will be assisting the entity applying for certification in the production or redistribution of the data, that other entity must be documented in the application process. Listed entities will be considered as falling under the umbrella of the parent company's certification. The name of the entity and its duties should be included as part of the application.
(b) If, subsequent to certification, a CED or CEVAD wishes to add another entity to assist it, a request in writing with the name of the entity and its duties shall be provided to the Office of Coast Survey, NOAA for acceptance. The Office of Coast Survey, NOAA will provide written notification of acceptance to the CED or CEVAD within 30 days of receipt of the request.
§ 995.14
Auditing.
NOAA reserves the right to audit CED or CEVAD to ensure that the certification requirements are being met. Such an audit may consist of: visits to the production facilities, product testing, confirmation of ISO 9001 certification, or confirmation of type approval for conversion software, and so forth.
§ 995.15
Termination of certification.
(a) In the event that NOAA determines that a CED or CEVAD is not meeting the requirements described in this part, the Office of Coast Survey, NOAA (OCS) will provide initial written notification of potential termination to the CED or CEVAD. OCS/NOAA will state in its notification to CED or CEVAD that termination of certification is under consideration.
(b) The initial notification of potential termination will be provided in writing by OCS to the CED or CEVAD, and shall state the reason for the potential termination. Reasons for termination may include, but are not limited to:
(1) CED or CEVAD contracts or in any way seeks to transfer the production or redistribution of all or part of the NOAA official data in the product to another entity.
(2) CED or CEVAD fails to, or is unable (in the opinion of NOAA) to carry out its responsibilities as described in this part.
(c) CED or CEVAD may submit written comments to OCS within 30 days of receipt of the OCS's initial written notification of potential termination, explaining why CED or CEVAD's certification should not be terminated.
(1) The written comments shall be submitted to: Director, Office of Coast Survey, National Ocean Service, NOAA (N/CS), 1315 East West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910.
(2) The written comments shall contain at least:
(i) Identification and contact information of the CED or CEVAD;
(ii) A statement that CED or CEVAD is responding to an initial written notification of potential termination by OCS; and
(iii) A thorough but concise argument as to why CED or CEVAD believes that its certification should not be terminated.
(d) The Director of OCS will take all timely written comments into account before taking final action, and in no case will the Director take final action until at least 45 days after CED or
CEVAD's receipt of the initial written notification. A decision to terminate by the Director of OCS will state the reasons for termination and respond to all timely written comments submitted. Any final action taken by OCS constitutes final agency action on the matter.
(e) CED or CEVAD shall notify all recipients of its products that its certification has been revoked, and that the product may no longer be valid for use. In addition, the CED or CEVAD shall provide the dates of non-compliance.
§ 995.16
Term of certification.
The term of certification is five years from the date of issuance. At the end of the certification term, the process must be re-certified by the distributor or value added distributor submitting a request for certification as described in § 995.10. It may also be revoked prior to the end of the term under the conditions described in § 995.15.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Certified Distributors and Value Added Distributors of NOAA ENC Products
§ 995.20
General.
The requirements for certification as a “Certified NOAA ENC Distributor” (CED) and “Certified NOAA ENC Value Added Distributor” (CEVAD) are described in this subpart.
§ 995.21
Registry of data users.
(a) CED or CEVAD shall maintain a registry of customers receiving NOAA ENC data. CED or CEVAD shall provide said registry to NOAA on a biannual basis for internal NOAA planning and product evaluation use. NOAA agrees to treat such information as proprietary (if requested to do so by the CED or CEVAD).
(b)(1) The registry shall include, but not be limited to:
(i) Which NOAA ENC ® cells were provided to each customer;
(ii) Edition number of each cell provided;
(iii) Updates provided for each cell;
(iv) Method of distribution for each customer.
(2) The registry may also include information about the type and size of vessel that the NOAA ENC data has been provided for as well as an anonymous unique identifier for the vessel.
§ 995.22
Training of data users.
CED or CEVAD shall provide some form of product training and education materials to the customer to ensure that the end user has a sufficient level of information about the intended use of the derived product and what is needed to properly use it (e.g., requires certain equipment).
§ 995.23
Acquisition of data.
(a) CED or CEVAD shall obtain official NOAA ENC ® files only by directly downloading them from an official NOAA ENC site on the Internet.
(b)(1) After downloading NOAA ENC files, CED or CEVAD shall uncompress the files and compute a CRC checksum value for each NOAA ENC file and verify that it matches the CRC checksum value contained in the CATALOG.031 file provided with the NOAA ENC files by NOAA. This is to ensure that no NOAA ENC files have been corrupted during the download process.
(2) In the event that said CRC checksum value does not match that in the CATALOG.031 file, CED or CEVAD agrees to:
(i) Repeat the download process;
(ii) In the event that said CRC checksum value for the repeat download does not match that in the CATALOG.031 file, immediately notify the NOAA ENC Production Manager at
enc.chartproduction@noaa.gov
, and;
(iii) Not redistribute any NOAA ENC that does not have a valid CRC checksum.
§ 995.24
Distribution of data.
(a)
Distribution of data by CEDs
—(1)
Format of redistributed data
—(i)
General.
Except as listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, CED agrees to redistribute NOAA ENC data only in the original form provided by NOAA after uncompressing and shall not change the file format (S-57 Edition 3.1 ENC or other formats specified by NOAA), or contents, or alter the NOAA ENC data in any way.
(ii)
Compression.
The NOAA ENC files may be compressed using a lossless compression technique provided that CED makes the decompression software available to the end user as part of the redistribution service. Decompressed files must have the same CRC checksum value as the original files. The CED agrees to make the compression/decompression software and documentation available to NOAA for testing.
(iii)
Encryption.
The NOAA ENC files may be encrypted by CED, providing that the encryption/decryption process does not result in any information loss and that CED makes the decryption software available to the end user as part of the redistribution service. Decrypted files must have the same CRC checksum value as the original files. CED shall make the encryption/decryption software and documentation available to NOAA for testing.
(2)
Frequency of distribution.
CED shall make all current editions of NOAA ENC files and all updates to or new editions of NOAA ENC files available to its customers within five working days of the files or updates being posted by NOAA. Documentation shall be provided to the customer concerning any time delays that may occur between official release of a NOAA ENC or update, and CED providing same to end users.
(3)
Distribution report.
CED shall provide a bi-annual report on when NOAA ENC files were downloaded and when they were redistributed to end-users.
(4)
Additional data.
(i) If CED provides other data to customers in addition to NOAA ENC data (e.g., ENC data from other nations, raster chart data, privately produced data, etc.), CED shall provide a clear indication to the customer which files are official NOAA ENC data and which files are not. This may be accomplished through means such as package labeling, notifications in software, or other means.
(ii) Additionally, any data that is included with NOAA ENC data must not result in embarrassment to the Department of Commerce or NOAA. There must be no conflict with any trademark rights and the inclusion of non-NOAA data will not constitute any endorsement of or favoritism toward the non-NOAA data or CED.
(5)
Identification of type and contents.
CED shall ensure that NOAA ENC ® files provided to an end user are clearly identified as to the type (e.g., direct unaltered copies) and contents (cells, updates, and ancillary files) and authenticity of the exchange set. This may be accomplished through means such as package labeling, notifications in software, or other means.
(6)
Use of product.
CED shall provide a clear indication to the customer the purpose of its products; for example, indicating whether or not the product, and the data contained within it, is suitable for navigation and if it meets Federal chart carriage requirements. If only some of the files meet Federal carriage requirements, CED shall provide clear indication which files do and which files do not. This may be accomplished through means such as package labeling, notifications in software, or other means.
(b)
Distribution of data by CEVADs
—(1)
Frequency of distribution.
CEVAD shall make all current editions of NOAA ENC files and all updates to or new editions of NOAA ENC files available to its customers within five working days of the files or updates being posted by NOAA. Documentation shall be provided to the customer concerning any time delays that may occur between official release of a NOAA ENC or update, and CED providing same to end users.
(2)
Distribution report.
CEVAD shall provide a bi-annual report to NOAA on when NOAA ENC files were downloaded and when they were redistributed or made available to end users.
(3)
Additional data.
(i) If CEVAD provides products to customers that incorporate other data in addition to NOAA ENC data (e.g., ENC data from other nations, raster chart data, privately produced data, etc.), CEVAD shall provide a clear indication in the product which data are from official NOAA ENC data and which data are not. This shall be done in a way that allows the navigation system to give the end user an automatic notification or warning that particular data elements within the product are not from the official NOAA ENC. Any such data shall not
degrade the official NOAA ENC data or information.
(ii) Additionally, any data that is included with NOAA ENC data must not result in embarrassment to the Department of Commerce or NOAA. There must be no conflict with any trademark rights and the inclusion of non-NOAA data will not constitute any endorsement of or favoritism toward the non-NOAA data or CEVAD.
(4)
Identification of type and contents.
CEVAD shall ensure that data provided to an end user clearly identify which NOAA ENC ® files are included in the product as to the type (e.g., NOAA ENCs in another form than that provided by NOAA without degradation to positional accuracy or informational content) and the contents (cells, updates, and ancillary files) and authenticity of the NOAA ENC files used. This may be accomplished through means such as package labeling, notifications in software, or other means.
(5)
Use of product.
CEVAD shall provide a clear indication to the customer of the purpose of its products; for example, indicating whether or not the product, and the data contained within it, is suitable for navigation and if it meets Federal chart carriage requirements. If only some of the files meet Federal carriage requirements, CEVAD shall provide clear indication which files do and which files do not. This may be accomplished through means such as package labeling, notifications in software, or other means.
§ 995.25
Quality management system.
(a)
Quality management system for CEVADs.
(1) CEVAD shall operate a quality management system, based on ISO 9001-2000 or equivalent, which embraces all elements of the process used to process and redistribute NOAA ENC files. The minimum requirements for such a quality management system are those defined in this part. The quality management system must ensure that the production process complies with all relevant requirements of this part.
(2) The quality management system must, at a minimum, include an adequate account of:
(i) The quality objectives and the organizational structure, responsibilities, and powers of management with regard to production quality;
(ii) The techniques, processes, and systematic actions that will be used for quality management throughout the production process, including NOAA ENC conversion and the quality of the product being redistributed;
(iii) The examination and tests that will be carried out before, during, and after processes essential for the quality of the product, and the frequency with which they will be carried out;
(iv) The quality records, such as inspection records and test data, qualification reports of personnel concerned resulting from the program specified herein; and
(v) The means for monitoring the achievement of the required quality of the product and the effective operation of the quality management system.
(3) Design and development changes shall be reviewed, verified, and validated as appropriate and approved by the ISO 9001 certification authority (or equivalent if another quality management system is used) before implementation.
(4) If the type approved conversion software is maintained by a third party, CEVAD shall ensure that no changes made to the conversion software render the type approval of the conversion software invalid, and shall evaluate the effects of such changes on the end users of the product.
(5) CEVAD shall analyze both internal information and that received from external parties in order to continually monitor and improve the production process and the product being redistributed.
(6) CEVAD shall ensure that personnel performing work affecting the production process are competent with regard to appropriate education, training, skills, and expertise.
(7) CEVAD shall conduct internal audits at planned intervals to determine whether the quality management system conforms to the requirements of this part and is effectively implemented and maintained. The audit program shall take into consideration the individual processes' importance in relation to the product quality, as well as results of previous audits. Selection of auditors and conducting of audits
shall, as far as practicable, insure objectivity and impartiality in the audit process.
(8) CEVAD shall ensure that actions are taken without undue delay to eliminate detected non-conformities and their causes. Follow-up activities shall include the verification of the actions taken and the reporting of verification results.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 995.26
Conversion of NOAA ENC ® files to other formats.
(a)
Conversion of NOAA ENC files to other formats
—(1)
Content.
CEVAD may provide NOAA ENC data in forms other than that provided by NOAA. However, CEVAD shall not change the information content provided by the NOAA ENC. This means that all features and their associated attribution must be preserved in the CEVADs data files without degradation to positional accuracy or informational content.
(2)
Software certification.
Conversion of NOAA ENC data to other formats must be accomplished within the constraints of IHO Technical Resolution A3.11: “ENC/SENC Distribution Option” (incorporated by reference, see § 995.2)—in particular, paragraph three:
Distributors who are to supply the SENC service must operate under the regulations of the issuing authority. The onshore ENC to SENC conversion must be performed using type-approved software.
(3)
Error reporting.
Any errors detected during the conversion process shall be logged and investigated prior to releasing the data in which the errors occurred. Any errors that apparently originate in the NOAA ENC files shall be immediately reported to NOAA.
(4)
Format check.
CEVAD shall ensure that the converted data conforms to the CEVAD's own format specifications and shall test load the converted data to ensure that it will correctly load and display on the intended equipment.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 995.27
Format validation software testing.
Tests shall be performed verifying, as far as reasonable and practicable, that CEVAD's data testing software performs the checks, as specified by CEVAD, for verifying that the converted data conforms to its own proprietary product specification. These tests may be combined with testing of the conversion software.
§ 995.28
Use of NOAA emblem.
(a) Permission for the use of the NOAA emblem must be obtained by formally requesting such permission from NOAA and the Department of Commerce through NOAA's Office of Coast Survey.
(b) Use of the NOAA emblem must satisfy an interest of the Department; the use may not result in embarrassment to the Department; there must be no conflict with any trademark rights, as stated in § 995.24(a)(4)(ii) and (b)(3)(ii); and there can be no endorsement or favoritism toward the distributor or value added distributor using the emblem, or other appearance of impropriety.
(c) Certification under this part does not automatically grant the distributor or value added distributor the right to use the NOAA logo. Use of the NOAA logo without express permission from NOAA and the Department of Commerce will be considered grounds for denial of an application for certification or termination of certification.
(d)
Emblem use by certified distributors or certified value added distributors of NOAA electronic products.
(1) After receiving separate, written permission from NOAA and the Department of Commerce as described in paragraph (a) of this section, a CED or CEVAD may use the NOAA emblem in product labeling and advertising materials, but only in conjunction with the phrase “Certified NOAA ENC Distributor” or “Certified NOAA ENC Value Added Distributor,” as applicable, and only after receiving separate, written permission from NOAA and the Department of Commerce as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) If the NOAA emblem is used with products that include other data, clear indication must be provided to the customer indicating that the emblem and the phrase “Certified NOAA ENC Distributor” or “Certified NOAA ENC Value Added Distributor” does not apply to the entire product delivered.
Information on the effects of such limitation must be provided to the customer (See § 995.24(a)(4) and (5) and (b)(3) and (4).)
§ 995.29
Limitation on endorsements.
By certifying compliance with this part, NOAA does not automatically, directly, or indirectly endorse any product or service provided, or to be provided, by distributor or value added distributor or its successors, assignees, or licensees. The distributor or value added distributor shall not in any way imply that this certification is an endorsement of any such product or service without separate, written permission from NOAA and the Department of Commerce.
Pt. 995, Subpt. C, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 995—Certification Application Templates
Notice to respondents:
This information is being collected by NOAA to ascertain qualifications for certification as an authorized distributor of official NOAA ENC ® data. NOAA developed these certification requirements under the authority of Section 104 of the Hydrographic Services Improvement Act Amendments of 2002, 33 U.S.C. 892b(b)(1).
The information on these forms is not associated with performance of agency functions.
Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 16 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to
Jim.Gardner@noaa.gov.
Responses to this collection are considered voluntary, though they are required for certification.
The information requested on these forms will not be disseminated to the public or used to support information that will be disseminated to the public. Any disclosure of propriety information will be held in confidentiality as regulated under the Trade Secrets Act. NOAA will not violate that Act's prohibitions against unauthorized agency disclosures of trade secrets or other confidential business information.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the law, no person is required to, nor shall any person be subject to a penalty for failure to, comply with a collection of information subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act, unless that collection of information displays a currently valid OMB Control Number. [OMB Control #
0648-0508
Expires
05/31/2008
]

# Application for Certification as “Certified NOAA ENC Distributor”
Company Name
Company Address
Company Phone Number
Company Fax Number
Company E-Mail Address
Point of Contact
Point of Contact Address
Point of Contact Phone Number
Point of Contact Fax Number
Point of Contact E-Mail Address
This is a request for the above named company or individual (hereinafter referred to as Distributor) to be certified as a “Certified NOAA ENC Distributor” (CED). This document describes how each of the requirements for certification is being met. Descriptive titles after each number in parenthesis on this application correspond to section titles in 15 CFR, chapter IX, Subchapter F, Part 995—Certification requirements for Distributors of NOAA hydrographic products. The numbers after each descriptive title refer to the section number within 15 CFR part 995. The Distributor should use these section numbers to insure that the requirements are being fully understood and met by the Distributor prior to submitting the application.
(1)
Correspondence and applications/requests for certification (995.10 (a)).
Distributor acknowledges and agrees to all procedures and requirements pertaining to the certification process described in 15 CFR part 995.
(2)
Correspondence and applications/point of contact (995.10 (d)).
Distributor agrees to immediately notify the Government of any changes to point of contact information.
(3)
Transfer of certification (995.13).
Document other entities that will be assisting in the production or redistribution of the derived product. Provide the names and duties of those entities to meet this requirement.
(4)
Auditing (995.14).
Distributor acknowledges that NOAA reserves the right to audit Distributor to ensure that all requirements in 15 CFR part 995 are being met.
(5)
Termination of certification (995.15).
Distributor acknowledges the conditions leading to and procedures for the termination of certification as described in this requirement.
(6)
Term of certification (995.16).
Distributor acknowledges that the duration of certification is five years from the date of issuance.
(7)
Registry of data users (995.21).
Include a description of the data user registry, including:
(a) What data elements it contains, specifically showing how the required elements are included;
(b) A hardcopy sample of the report that will be periodically submitted to NOAA;
(c) A short description of how the registry is maintained.
(8)
Training of data users (995.22).
Include a copy of any documentation provided to users that is intended to meet this requirement.
(9)
Acquisition of data (995.23).
Distributor asserts that all procedures described in this requirement for the acquisition of NOAA ENC ® data for redistribution are being followed.
(10)
Distribution of data/general (995.24(a)(1)(i)).
Distributor asserts that all NOAA ENC ® data redistributed will be in the format described by this requirement.
(11)
Distribution of data/compression (995.24(a)(1)(ii)).
Distributor shall indicate if data compression techniques are used. If Distributor uses data compression techniques, Distributor asserts that the process meets the necessary regulations described by this requirement.
(12)
Distribution of data/encryption (995.24(a)(1)(iii)).
Distributor shall indicate if data encryption techniques are used. If Distributor uses data encryption techniques, Distributor asserts that the process meets the necessary regulations described by this requirement.
(13)
Distribution of data/frequency of distribution (995.24(a)(2)).
Distributor asserts that any updates will be transmitted to their users within the time constraints described by this requirement.
(14)
Distribution of data/distribution report (995.24(a)(3)).
Distributor shall provide an example of the distribution report described by this requirement.
(15)
Distribution of data/additional data (995.24(a)(4)).
Distributor shall indicate if additional data is to be distributed with the NOAA ENC ® data. If so, Distributor shall provide examples of how the data users will be informed as to the official and unofficial contents of the data as described by this requirement.
(16)
Distribution of data/identification of contents (995.24(a)(5)).
Distributor shall provide examples of how the contents of the NOAA ENC ® files will be identified to the users.
(17)
Distribution of data/use of product (995.24(a)(6)).
Distributor shall provide examples of how the data users will be informed as to the purpose of its products as described in this requirement.
(18)
Use of NOAA emblem (995.28).
Distributor acknowledges that a separate request for the use of the NOAA emblem must be submitted according to the procedure described in this requirement.
(19)
Limitation on endorsements (995.29).
Distributor acknowledges that NOAA does not automatically, directly, or indirectly endorse any product or service provided, or to be provided, by Distributor, its successors, assignees, or licensees. Distributor shall not in any way imply that this certification is an endorsement of any such product or service without separate, written permission.
(20)
Liability (995.7).
By signing this request for certification, Distributor pledges to indemnify and hold harmless the U.S. Government for any loss, claim, damage, or liability of any kind, the extent caused by the negligence of Distributor or its employees, arising out of the use by the Distributor, or any Party acting on its behalf or under its authorization, of NOAA ENC ® data.
Signature of this request constitutes an acknowledgement by Distributor of ALL applicable terms and conditions described in the certification requirements in 15 CFR part 995.
Signed:
Title:
Date:
[OMB Control #
0648-0508
Expires
05/31/2008
]

# Application for Certification as “Certified NOAA ENC Value Added Distributor”
Company Name
Company Address
Company Phone Number
Company Fax Number
Company E-Mail Address
Point of Contact
Point of Contact Address
Point of Contact Phone Number
Point of Contact Fax Number
Point of Contact E-Mail Address
This is a request for the above named company (hereinafter referred to as Value Added Distributor) to be certified as a “Certified NOAA ENC Value Added Distributor” (CEVAD). This document describes how each of the requirements for certification is being met. Descriptive titles after each number in parenthesis on this application correspond to section titles in 15 CFR, chapter IX, Subchapter F, Part 995—Certification requirements for Distributors of NOAA hydrographic products. The numbers after each descriptive title refer to the section number within 15 CFR, part 995. The Distributor should use these section numbers to insure that the requirements are being fully understood and met by the Distributor prior to submitting the application.
(1)
Correspondence and applications/requests for certification (995.10 (a)).
Distributor acknowledges and agrees to all procedures and requirements pertaining to the certification process described in 15 CFR part 995.
(2)
Correspondence and applications/point of contact (995.10 (d)).
Distributor agrees to immediately notify the Government of any changes to point of contact information.
(3)
Transfer of certification (995.13).
Document other entities that will be assisting in the production or redistribution of the derived product. Provide the names and duties of those entities to meet this requirement.
(4)
Auditing (995.14).
Distributor acknowledges that NOAA reserves the right to audit Distributor to ensure that all requirements in 15 CFR part 995 are being met.
(5)
Termination of certification (995.15).
Distributor acknowledges the conditions leading to and procedures for the termination of certification as described in this requirement.
(6)
Term of certification (995.16).
Distributor acknowledges that the duration of certification is five years from the date of issuance.
(7)
Registry of data users (995.21).
Include a description of the data user registry, including:
(a) What data elements it contains, specifically showing how the required elements are included;
(b) A hardcopy sample of the report that will be periodically submitted to NOAA;
(c) A short description of how the registry is maintained.
(8)
Training of data users (995.22).
Include a copy of any documentation provided to users that is intended to meet this requirement.
(9)
Acquisition of data (995.23).
Distributor asserts that all procedures described in this requirement for the acquisition of NOAA ENC ® data for redistribution are being followed.
(10)
Distribution of data/frequency of distribution (995.24(b)(1)).
Value Added Distributor asserts that any updates will be transmitted to their users within the time constraints described by this requirement.
(11)
Distribution of data/distribution report (995.24(b)(2)).
Value Added Distributor shall provide an example of the distribution report described by this requirement.
(12)
Distribution of data/additional data (995.24(b)(3)).
Value Added Distributor shall indicate if additional data is to be distributed with the NOAA ENC data. If so, Value Added Distributor shall provide examples of how the data users will be informed as to the official and unofficial contents of the data as described in this requirement.
(13)
Distribution of data/identification of contents (995.24(b)(4)).
Value Added Distributor shall provide examples of how the contents of the NOAA ENC files will be identified to the users.
(14)
Distribution of data/use of product (995.24(b)(5)).
Distributor shall provide examples of how the data users will be informed as to the purpose of its products as described in this requirement.
(15)
Quality management system (995.25).
Value Added Distributor shall provide a copy of the ISO 9001-2000 certification or certification of compliance with an equivalent program of quality management that covers the processes described in this section of the requirements.
(16)
Conversion of NOAA ENC files to other formats (995.26(a)(1)).
Value Added Distributor asserts that all NOAA ENC ® content and accuracy are preserved during the conversion process as described in this section of the requirements.
(17)
Conversion of NOAA ENC files to other formats/software certification (995.26(a)(2)).
Value Added Distributor shall provide a copy of the type approval certificate for the software used to convert the NOAA ENC files to the Value Added Distributor's format.
(18)
Conversion of NOAA ENC files to other formats/error reporting (995.26(a)(3)).
Value Added Distributor asserts that they shall log and report any errors in the NOAA ENC data detected during the conversion process. Value Added Distributor shall provide an example of the report format that they will use.
(19)
Conversion of NOAA ENC files to other formats/format check (995.26(a)(4)).
Value Added Distributor asserts that all data shall be checked for conformance with Value Added Distributor's own format specifications and shall test load the converted data as described in this section of the requirements.
(20)
Format validation software testing (995.27).
The validation software used by Value Added Distributor shall be tested according to this requirement and the results stated in this section of the request for certification.
(21)
Use of NOAA emblem (995.28).
Value Added Distributor acknowledges that a separate request for the use of the NOAA emblem must be submitted according to the procedure described in this requirement.
(22)
Limitation on endorsements (995.29).
Value Added Distributor acknowledges that NOAA does not automatically, directly, or indirectly endorse any product or service provided, or to be provided, by Value Added Distributor, its successors, assignees, or licensees. Value Added Distributor shall not in any way imply that this certification is an endorsement of any such product or service without separate, written permission.
(23)
Liability (995.7).
By signing this request for certification, Value Added Distributor pledges to indemnify and hold harmless the U.S. Government for any loss, claim, damage, or liability of any kind, the extent caused by the negligence of Value Added Distributor or its employees, arising out of the use by the Value Added Distributor, or any party acting on its behalf or under its authorization, of NOAA ENC data.
Signature of this request constitutes an acknowledgement by Value Added Distributor of ALL applicable terms and conditions described in the certification requirements.
Signed:
Title:
Date:
Pt. 996

# PART 996—QUALITY ASSURANCE AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR NOAA HYDROGRAPHIC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
996.1
Purpose and scope.
996.2
Definitions.
996.3
Fees.
996.4
Liability.

# Subpart B—The Quality Assurance Program for Hydrographic Products
996.10
Submission and selection of hydrographic products for the development of standards and compliance tests.
996.11
Development of standards for a hydrographic product or class.
996.12
Development of standards compliance tests for a hydrographic product or class.
996.13
Determination of whether to offer certification for a hydrographic product or class.

# Subpart C—Certification of a Hydrographic Product and Decertification.
996.20
Submission of a hydrographic product for certification.
996.21
Performance of compliance testing.
996.22
Certification.
996.23
Audit and decertification of hydrographic products.

# Subpart D—Other Quality Assurance Program Matters
996.30
Use of the NOAA emblem.
996.31
Termination of the Quality Assurance Program.
996.32
Appeals.
996.33
Acceptance of program by non-Federal entities.

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 892b.

# Source:
70 FR 698, Jan. 5, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 996.1
Purpose and scope.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) was mandated to develop and implement a quality assurance program that is equally available to all applicants, under which the Administrator may certify hydrographic products that satisfy standards promulgated by the Administrator. “Hydrographic products” are any publicly or commercially available products produced by a non-Federal entity that include or display hydrographic data. The procedures established here by which hydrographic products are proposed for certification; by which standards and compliance tests are developed, adopted, and applied for those products; and by which certification may be awarded or denied are the mandated Quality Assurance Program. The execution of those procedures for specific hydrographic products is the implementation of the program.
§ 996.2
Definitions.
Agency
means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
Applicant
means a non-Federal entity that is submitting a hydrographic product to the Quality Assurance Program for certification.
Certification
means a determination made by NOAA that a hydrographic product submitted by a non-Federal entity has met the requirements established by NOAA for a particular hydrographic product or class.
Department
means the Department of Commerce.
Hydrographic data
means information acquired through hydrographic or bathymetric surveying, photogrammetry, geodetic, geospatial, or geomagnetic measurements, tide and current observations, or other methods, that is used in providing hydrographic services.
Hydrographic product
means any publicly or commercially available product produced by a non-Federal entity that includes or displays hydrographic data.
Hydrographic product class
means a group of hydrographic products with similar traits, attributes, purposes, or users.
Hydrographic services
means
(1) The management, maintenance, interpretation, certification, and dissemination of bathymetric, hydrographic, geodetic, geospatial, geomagnetic, and tide and current information, including the production of nautical charts, nautical information databases, and other products derived from hydrographic data;
(2) The development of nautical information systems; and
(3) Related activities.
Quality Assurance Program
means a set of procedures by which hydrographic products are proposed for certification; by which standards and compliance tests are developed, and, if suitable, are adopted by NOAA for those products; and by which certification of individual products may be awarded or denied.
Quality Assurance Program implementation
means the execution of the Quality Assurance Program procedures for specific hydrographic products.
Sponsor
means a non-Federal entity that is submitting a hydrographic product to the Quality Assurance Program for the development of standards and compliance tests.
§ 996.3
Fees.
NOAA may charge for its Quality Assurance Program activities such sums as may be permitted or required under this Act, or under other statutory authorities. Such sums are non-refundable. NOAA will attempt to identify any such charges upon first submission of a hydrographic product. However, the intent to charge and the amounts may change. NOAA will promptly notify the sponsor of any such changes, and will permit the sponsor to withdraw hydrographic products from consideration under the Quality Assurance Program should they so choose.
§ 996.4
Liability.
The Government of the United States shall not be liable for any negligence by producers of hydrographic products certified under this part.

# Subpart B—The Quality Assurance Program for Hydrographic Products
§ 996.10
Submission and selection of hydrographic products for the development of standards and compliance tests.
(a) Any non-Federal entity may submit a hydrographic product to be considered for the development of standards and compliance tests under this Quality Assurance Program.
(b) Submission shall be made to the Quality Assurance Program address below, or to such other address as may be indicated in the future: Director (N/CS), ATTN: Hydrographic Product Quality Assurance Program, Office of Coast Survey, NOAA, 1315 East West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910.
(c) The submission shall include
(1) Name and description of the proposed hydrographic product.
(2) The non-Federal entity submitting the product for the development of standards and compliance tests, and contact information for that entity. This non-Federal entity shall be known as the sponsor.
(3) The names and contact information of proposed representatives of the affected communities who have committed to participate substantively in the writing of standards and compliance tests. Affected communities might include: manufacturers, users, regulators, resellers, developers of products that use certified hydrographic products such as datasets, and manufacturers of competing or substitute products.
(4) The names and contact information of the standards setting body, and the compliance testing body under whose authority it is proposed that the standards and compliance tests be written and adopted.
(5) Information deemed relevant by the sponsor for NOAA to consider in deciding whether to proceed with the development of standards, compliance tests, and certification. Such information should address at a minimum:
(i) The type and magnitude of the public benefits and enhancement of public safety that would be achieved;
(ii) The breadth of support for standards and certification among all the affected communities;
(iii) The practicality of writing and enforcing an effective and appropriate standard;
(iv) The availability of suitable, similar products that may already meet the needs of the public; and
(v) The required expertise needed to write an appropriate standard.
(d) NOAA may, at its option, define a hydrographic product class of which the proposed hydrographic product is a specific instance. Standards and compliance tests may then be prepared for the class rather than for an individual non-Federal entity's specific product.
(e) NOAA shall publicize, in the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, the hydrographic product or class in order to solicit comments on the proposal that standards and compliance tests be written and certification be offered for that hydrographic product or class. Comments might include, but are not limited to, general information; statements of interest in participating in the development of standards and compliance tests; or objections to acceptance of the hydrographic product or class into this Quality Assurance Program. Instructions for commenting and the duration of the comment period will be included in the announcement.
(f) NOAA shall decide, if its other obligations permit, within 60 calendar days of the close of the comment period whether to proceed with the development of standards, compliance tests, and certification for the proposed hydrographic product or class. NOAA may request further information, and shall have additional time as required to consider the information once received. NOAA's decision on whether to proceed shall be based on the following criteria:
(1) The magnitude of the public benefit and enhancement of public safety that would be achieved compared to the commitment of federal resources that would be required;
(2) The breadth of support for standards and certification among all the affected communities;
(3) The practicality of writing and enforcing an effective and appropriate standard;
(4) The availability of suitable, similar products that may already meet the needs of the public;
(5) NOAA's expertise related to the expertise needed to write an appropriate standard;
(6) Availability of resources; and
(7) Other relevant criteria as they become apparent.
(g) NOAA's decision as to whether the proposed hydrographic product or class is accepted into the Quality Assurance Program shall be publicly announced in the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, and a written notification shall be provided to the sponsor. The response shall include NOAA's reason for its decision based on the criteria enumerated above.
(h) Any party, including the sponsor, shall have an opportunity to request reconsideration of NOAA's decision. Said request shall be submitted in writing, to the Quality Assurance Program address, postmarked within 30 days of NOAA's announcement of its decision, and shall contain written material supporting the requestor's position. NOAA shall have, if its other obligations permit, 60 calendar days from the receipt of a request for reconsideration to either deny the request, or to reconsider and announce its decision.
(i) NOAA's decision, either the original decision if unappealed within 30 days, or the decision after the request for reconsideration, shall be considered final.
(j) NOAA itself may choose to identify a hydrographic product or class, which may or may not yet exist, but for which it intends to adopt standards, compliance tests, and to offer certification. In such cases, NOAA will be considered the sponsor. The procedures to be followed for NOAA-sponsored hydrographic products or classes shall be the same as for those sponsored by non-Federal entities, including the procedures for announcement, comment, and reconsideration.
§ 996.11
Development of standards for a hydrographic product or class.
(a) NOAA shall work, to the extent practicable, through existing, recognized, standards bodies in the writing and adopting of standards for a hydrographic product or class that NOAA has accepted into this program. It shall be the responsibility of the sponsor to propose an appropriate standards writing body. NOAA may accept this body at its discretion, or may select an alternate body. NOAA will then undertake, jointly with the sponsor and acknowledged representatives of the affected communities, to submit the proposal for writing standards to, and to secure the cooperation of, the selected standards writing body.
(b) Once accepted as a work item by the standards writing body, NOAA shall undertake, jointly with representatives of the affected community, members of the standards body, other governmental representatives, and the sponsor as appropriate, to write standards for the hydrographic product or class according to the practices of the standards body and the technical needs of the product. Participation in the writing of standards shall be determined according to the procedures of the standards writing body.
(c) NOAA shall then undertake, jointly with representatives of the affected community, members of the standards body and the body itself, other governmental representatives, and the sponsor as appropriate, to have the resulting standard officially adopted by the standards body according to the procedures of that body.
(d) NOAA may, at its option, proceed without the participation of an existing, recognized, standards body should it so choose. Such action might be taken, for example, if there were no appropriate standards body. In this eventuality, NOAA shall adhere to the following general procedure.
(1) Announce, in the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, NOAA's intention to organize and chair a working group to write and publish standards for the proposed hydrographic product or class;
(2) Solicit, via the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, participation and select, reject, and/or revoke permission to participate as NOAA deems appropriate so as to proceed in an orderly and representative manner in writing a standard;
(3) Initiate, schedule, host, and chair, or designate a chair for, the work of the working group;
(4) Circulate, via the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, the drafts of the working group;
(5) Announce, via the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, the NOAA proposed standard and provide an opportunity for public comment;
(6) Announce, via the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, and make available as a standard, the final version of the standard; and
(7) Provide the necessary administrative support.
(e) NOAA may, at its option, adopt an existing standard as the NOAA standard for this program. In this eventuality, NOAA shall adhere to the following general procedure.
(1) Announce, in the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, NOAA's intention to adopt an existing standard for the proposed hydrographic product or class; and
(2) Solicit, via the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means including public meetings, comment on the standard that NOAA proposes to adopt, and shall consider the comments received.
(f) Alternatively, NOAA may at its option, proceed by writing a standard by itself. Such action might be used, for example, in cases where the standard is obvious. Producing exact copies of existing NOAA products might be one such case. Once written, this NOAA-authored standard shall be made publicly available for comment, and comments shall be considered before NOAA publishes the final standard.
(g) At the conclusion of the standards writing, whether through an existing standards body, by a NOAA-convened working group, by adopting an existing standard, or by NOAA itself, NOAA shall consider the resulting standard and comments, and either adopt or reject the standard as the NOAA Quality Assurance Program Standard for the particular hydrographic product or
class. NOAA's decision shall be publicly announced in the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means.
(h) Any party may request NOAA to reconsider its decision to adopt or reject the standard by submitting its request in writing to the Quality Assurance Program address within 30 days of NOAA's announcement of its decision. NOAA shall have, if its other obligations permit, 60 calendar days from the receipt of a request for reconsideration to either deny the request, or to reconsider and announce its decision. NOAA's original decision if unappealed within 30 days, or its decision upon reconsideration shall be considered final.
§ 996.12
Development of standards compliance tests for a hydrographic product or class.
(a) NOAA shall work, to the extent practicable, through existing, recognized, compliance testing bodies in the writing and adopting of compliance tests for a hydrographic product or class. It shall be the responsibility of the sponsor to propose an appropriate compliance testing body. NOAA may accept this body at its discretion, or may select an alternate body. NOAA will then undertake, jointly with the sponsor and acknowledged representatives of the affected communities, to secure the cooperation of the selected compliance testing body.
(b) NOAA shall undertake, jointly with representatives of the affected community, members of the compliance testing body, other governmental representatives, and the sponsor as appropriate, to write compliance tests for the hydrographic product or class according to the practices of the compliance testing body and the Quality Assurance Program standard adopted by NOAA. Participation in the writing of compliance tests may be determined according to the procedures of the compliance testing body.
(c) NOAA shall then undertake, jointly with representatives of the affected community, members of the compliance testing body and the body itself, other governmental representatives, and the sponsor as appropriate, to have the resulting compliance tests adopted according to the procedures of that body.
(d) NOAA may, at its option, proceed without the participation of an existing, recognized, compliance testing body should it so choose. Such action might be taken, for example, if there were no appropriate compliance testing body. In this eventuality, NOAA will adhere to the following general procedure:
(1) Announce, in the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, NOAA's intention to organize and chair a working group to write and publish compliance tests for the hydrographic product or class;
(2) Solicit, via the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, participation and select, reject, and/or revoke permission to participate as NOAA deems appropriate so as to proceed in an orderly and representative manner in writing compliance tests;
(3) Initiate, schedule, host, and chair, or designate a chair for, the work of the working group;
(4) Circulate, via the
Federal Register,
or by other appropriate means, the drafts of the working group;
(5) Announce, via the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, a NOAA proposed final version of the compliance tests and provide an opportunity for public comment;
(6) Announce, via the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, and make available the final version of the compliance tests, and
(7) Provide the necessary administrative support.
(e) NOAA may, at its option, adopt existing compliance tests as the NOAA compliance tests for this program. In this eventuality, NOAA shall adhere to the following general procedure:
(1) Announce, in the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, NOAA's intention to adopt existing compliance tests for the proposed hydrographic product or class; and
(2) Solicit, via the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means including public meetings, comment on the proposed compliance tests that NOAA proposes to adopt, and shall consider the comments received.
(f) Alternatively, NOAA may, at its option, proceed by writing compliance tests by itself. Such action might be used, for example, in cases where the
tests are obvious. Producing exact copies of existing NOAA products might be one such case. Once written, these NOAA-authored tests shall be made publicly available for comment, and comments shall be considered before NOAA publishes the final compliance tests.
(g) At the conclusion of the compliance test writing, whether through an existing body, by a NOAA-convened working group, by adopting existing compliance tests, or by NOAA itself, NOAA shall consider the resulting compliance tests and comments, and either adopt or reject them as the NOAA Quality Assurance Program compliance tests for the particular hydrographic product standard. NOAA's decision shall be publicly announced in the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means.
(h) Any party may request NOAA to reconsider its decision to adopt or reject the compliance tests by submitting its request in writing to the Quality Assurance Program address within 30 days of NOAA's announcement of its decision. NOAA shall have, if its other obligations permit, 60 calendar days after the receipt of a request for reconsideration to either deny the request, or to reconsider and announce its decision. NOAA's original decision if unappealed within 30 days, or its decision upon reconsideration shall be considered final.
§ 996.13
Determination of whether to offer certification for a hydrographic product or class.
(a) Certification of a hydrographic product or class shall be at the option of NOAA. NOAA may decide at any time whether or not to offer certification for a product or class. However, it is most likely that a determination will be made only after a non-Federal entity has submitted a specific product for certification. NOAA's decision shall be based on the following criteria:
(1) The suitability of the adopted standards and tests for their intended purpose;
(2) The availability of a qualified entity to perform the compliance tests;
(3) Availability of resources; and
(4) Other relevant criteria as they become apparent.
(b) NOAA's decision as to whether certification for a hydrographic product or class is offered shall be publicly announced in the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means.
(c) Any entity may request NOAA to reconsider its decision to offer or not offer certification by submitting its request in writing to the Quality Assurance Program address within 30 days of NOAA's announcement of its decision. NOAA shall have, if its other obligations permit, 60 calendar days after the receipt of a request for reconsideration to either deny the request, or to reconsider and announce its decision.
(d) NOAA's original decision if unappealed within 30 days, or its decision upon reconsideration, shall be considered final.

# Subpart C—Certification of a Hydrographic Product and Decertification.
§ 996.20
Submission of a hydrographic product for certification.
(a) Upon adoption by NOAA of standards and compliance tests, any non-Federal entity may submit a hydrographic product for certification under a particular standard. This non-Federal entity shall be known as the applicant. Submission shall be made in writing to the Quality Assurance Program address. The submission shall include:
(1) Name and description of the hydrographic product and its product class if any;
(2) Identification and contact information for the non-Federal entity submitting the product for certification.
(3) The identification of the standard and compliance tests adopted by this Quality Assurance Program under which the hydrographic product is to be certified;
(4) A proposed, qualified, competent, independent compliance testing body to perform the compliance tests, which NOAA may accept at its discretion, or for which NOAA may select an alternative testing body;
(5) Other information deemed relevant by the sponsor or requested by NOAA.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 996.21
Performance of compliance testing.
(a) NOAA and the applicant shall submit the applicant's hydrographic product to the testing body for performance of the compliance tests. That body shall determine compliance or non-compliance of the hydrographic product with the NOAA-adopted standard, and shall provide to NOAA written documentation stating the results of the compliance tests according to its usual practices.
(b) Alternatively, NOAA may choose, at its option, to perform, have performed by a NOAA-designated entity, or waive the compliance tests for a hydrographic product. This alternative may be used, for example, when there is no qualified entity to perform the compliance tests, where the compliance tests are simple, or when self-certification of compliance would be appropriate.
(c) Items failing the compliance tests may be changed by the applicant and retested. Items passing the compliance test upon retest shall be deemed compliant as if they had passed said tests initially.
§ 996.22
Certification.
(a) A hydrographic product that has passed the compliance tests shall automatically be considered for certification by NOAA. NOAA shall make its certification determination, if its other obligations permit, within 60 calendar days following receipt of the compliance test results. NOAA shall make a certification determination based upon the following criteria:
(1) The results of the compliance tests;
(2) The potential for the hydrographic product to impair public safety;
(3) Successful completion of any administrative requirements, including the payment of required fees, as may be specified by NOAA;
(4) The potential for certification to cause embarrassment to the Agency or the Department;
(5) Other relevant criteria as they become apparent.
(b) Hydrographic products receiving a certification determination in the affirmative shall be designated as “certified” by NOAA. NOAA shall provide a written document to the sponsor indicating such, and shall announce its determination in the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means. Certification shall mean that the hydrographic product has been found to be in compliance with the NOAA-adopted standard for that hydrographic product or class. Certification conveys no express or implied warranty as to the merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose; conveys no express or implied liability on the part of the Government of the United States for the hydrographic products; and conveys no automatic, direct or indirect NOAA endorsement of any product or service.
(c) Certification shall be for a term of 3 years unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.
(d) A certification may be renewed, at the request of sponsor and the option of NOAA, for a period of 2 years. Sponsors may request the renewal of a certification by writing to the Quality Assurance Program address at least 120 calendar days before the expiration of an existing certification. The request shall include:
(1) Identifying and contact information for the sponsor;
(2) Identifying information for the relevant hydrographic product(s) and the standard(s) under which they were certified;
(3) Evidence sufficient to assure NOAA that the hydrographic product still meets the standard under which it was certified; and
(4) Other information as may be requested by NOAA.
(e) NOAA shall decide within 60 calendar days, if its other obligations permit, whether to renew a certification. NOAA's decision shall be based on whether the hydrographic product continues to meet the applicable standard, and other relevant criteria as they become apparent.
(f) The sponsor shall have an opportunity to request reconsideration of NOAA's decision. Said request shall be submitted in writing, to the Quality Assurance Program address, postmarked within 30 days of NOAA's announcement of its decision, and shall contain written material supporting
the requestor's position. NOAA shall have, if its other obligations permit, 30 calendar days from the receipt of a request for reconsideration to either deny the request, or to reconsider and announce its decision.
(g) NOAA's decision, either the original decision if unappealed within 30 days, or the decision after the request for reconsideration, shall be considered final.
§ 996.23
Audit and decertification of hydrographic products.
(a) NOAA may audit hydrographic products it has certified. NOAA may conduct audits without advance notification. However, visits to companies' facilities will be scheduled. Audits may include, but are not limited to:
(1) The producing companies as it may affect the certified product;
(2) Certified products;
(3) Processes used in making, distributing, and marketing certified products;
(4) Use of the NOAA emblem;
(5) Examination of manufacturers' public claims about certified hydrographic products;
(6) Other relevant criteria as they become apparent.
(b) NOAA may decertify a hydrographic product based on the findings of an audit. In general, a hydrographic product may be decertified if:
(1) The results of an audit indicate that the product no longer meets the standards under which it was certified;
(2) The product has been substantively changed from the product that was tested and certified;
(3) Implied or actual claims about the product, and/or other data or products linked to the product, are judged by NOAA to be untrue or misleading;
(4) The NOAA emblem was improperly or inappropriately displayed;
(5) Other relevant reasons as they become apparent.
(c) A producing company may decline to reveal information during an audit that it declares to be proprietary or for other reasons. In this eventuality, NOAA reserves the right to decertify based on lack of information should it deem that action appropriate.
(d) The entity producing the certified hydrographic product shall be notified in writing of NOAA's intent to decertify that product. Said entity shall have 30 days to request reconsideration of that intended action in writing to the Quality Assurance Program address. Said request shall contain the identification of the hydrographic product, the requestor, and sufficient information for NOAA to make a determination on the request for reconsideration. Alternatively, the entity may correct the deficiencies cited by NOAA within 30 days, notify NOAA in writing at the Quality Assurance Program address of the corrective action taken, and provide sufficient evidence for NOAA to judge the correctness and effectiveness of the corrective action taken.
(e) If a request for reconsideration is submitted, or if the producing entity asserts that the deficiencies have been corrected, NOAA shall have 60 calendar days, if its other obligations permit, to consider the request for reconsideration or the corrective action, at which time NOAA shall issue its decertification decision. The decision and NOAA's reason for its action shall be made public in the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means, and the producing entity shall be notified in writing.
(f) NOAA's decertification, if unappealed or uncorrected within 30 days, shall be considered final. NOAA shall notify the producing entity of this action in writing, and announce the decertification in the
Federal Register
or by other appropriate means.
(g) Upon decertification, manufacturers shall discontinue all claims of certification, and shall discontinue use of the NOAA emblem.

# Subpart D—Other Quality Assurance Program Matters
§ 996.30
Use of the NOAA emblem.
(a) Use of the NOAA emblem on certified hydrographic products requires separate written permission. Use of the NOAA emblem must satisfy an interest of the Agency, and must not result in embarrassment to the Agency or the Department. If the NOAA emblem is used on products that include other data or products, clear indication shall
be made as to what is NOAA certified, and what is not NOAA certified. The inclusion of other data or products will not constitute any endorsement of, or favoritism toward, the other data or products by NOAA. Requests for use of the NOAA emblem shall be submitted in writing to the Quality Assurance Program address, and shall include:
(1) Name and description of the hydrographic product(s) on which the emblem will be displayed.
(2) Name and contact information for the entity requesting use of the NOAA emblem.
(3) Exact samples of all uses intended for the NOAA emblem including text claims with, within, or associated with the hydrographic product, its packaging, and advertising that a reasonable person might associate with the NOAA emblem.
(4) Proof of NOAA certification.
(5) Other relevant information as may later be specified.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 996.31
Termination of the Quality Assurance Program.
(a) NOAA reserves the right to terminate the Quality Assurance Program for a particular hydrographic product or class at any time before certification is awarded if it is deemed to be in the public interest to do so. NOAA shall give written notification to the sponsor and other interested parties should it decide to exercise this option, and shall state the reasons for its action. Reasons for termination may include, but are not limited to:
(1) The inability of the standards-drafting group to reach a consensus on the content of the standard;
(2) Valid objections to the existence of NOAA-certification of a particular hydrographic product or class;
(3) A negative impact on public safety should the hydrographic product receive certification;
(4) Other relevant reasons as they become apparent.
(b) The sponsor or other interested parties shall have 30 days to request a reconsideration of the termination action. Said request shall be in writing to the Quality Assurance Program address, and shall include written material supporting the appeal. NOAA shall have, if its other obligations permit, 60 calendar days from the receipt of a request for reconsideration to either deny the request, or to reconsider and announce its decision.
(c) NOAA's decision, either the original decision if unappealed within 30 days, or the decision after the request for reconsideration, shall be considered final.
§ 996.32
Appeals.
(a) Any entity may appeal a final decision made by the Agency under this Quality Assurance Program. Said appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Quality Assurance Program address, and shall contain at least:
(1) Identification and contact information of the appealing entity;
(2) A statement that this is an appeal to a final decision of the Quality Assurance Program;
(3) A description of what decision is being appealed;
(4) A thorough but concise argument as to why the requestor believes the Quality Assurance Program decision being appealed should be set aside.
(5) Other information as may later be determined to be relevant.
(b) Appeals shall be arbitrated by the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management, NOAA, using procedures to be established at the time of the appeal, and which shall be appropriate to the nature and circumstances of the appeal. The determination from this arbitration shall be final for purposes of judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act and other statutes.
§ 996.33
Acceptance of program by non-Federal entities.
By their voluntary entrance or participation in this Quality Assurance Program or its activities, all parties acknowledge and accept the procedures established by this program, including the finality of decisions. All parties acknowledge and accept that information submitted to NOAA under this Program shall be deemed to be in the public domain, and no representation is made as to the protection of confidential, proprietary or otherwise restricted information.

# SUBCHAPTER G—REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFICATION BY NOAA OF NON-FEDERAL ASSETS INTO THE INTEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN OBSERVATION SYSTEM
Pt. 997

# PART 997—REGIONAL COASTAL OBSERVING SYSTEM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
997.1
Definitions.
997.2
Acceptance of procedures by a RCOS.

# Subpart B—Certification and Decertification Process for a Regional Coastal Observing System (RCOS)
997.10
Eligibility.
997.11
Application process.
997.12
Review by NOAA.
997.13
Certification process.
997.14
Certification duration and renewal.
997.15
Audit and decertification.
997.16
Final action.

# Subpart C—Certification and Application Requirements for a RCOS
997.20
General.
997.21
Organizational structure.
997.22
Membership policy.
997.23
Strategic operational plan.
997.24
Gaps identification.
997.25
Financial oversight.
997.26
Civil liability.

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 3602-3603.

# Source:
79 FR 32460, June 5, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 16634, Mar. 24, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 997.1
Definitions.
Certification.
For purposes of these regulations, the term “certification” means the granting by NOAA of status to a non-federal entity as a participating RCOS of the System authorized by section 12304 of the ICOOS Act. An applicant will not be considered to be participating in the System unless 1) it agrees to meet the certification standards issued by the Administrator issued herein, and 2) the Administrator declares the applicant to be part of the System as a certified RCOS.
Equipment.
For purposes of these regulations, the term “equipment” is defined as a tangible asset that is functionally complete for its intended purpose and has a capital cost of over $5,000. Both individual sensors and collections of sensors on a platform are considered equipment and are subject to the $5,000 minimum cost.
Non-Federal assets.
The term “non-Federal assets” means all relevant coastal and ocean observation technologies, related basic and applied technology research and development, and public education and outreach programs that are integrated into the System and are managed through State, regional organizations, universities, nongovernmental organizations, or the private sector.
Owned and/or operated by the RCOS.
The term “owned and/or operated by the RCOS” means non-Federal Assets that are either owned and/or operated directly by the RCOS, or supported financially in part or in full by the RCOS.
Regional Coastal Observing System (RCOS).
The term “regional coastal observing system” means an organizational body that is certified or established by contract or memorandum by the lead Federal agency (NOAA) designated in the ICOOS Act, and that coordinates State, Federal, local, and private interests at a regional level with the responsibility of engaging the private and public sectors in designing, operating, and improving regional coastal and ocean observing systems in order to ensure the provision of data and information that satisfy the needs of user groups from the respective regions. The term “regional coastal observing system” includes regional associations described in the System Plan.
Employee of a Regional Information Coordination Entity.
The term “Employee of a Regional Information Coordination Entity” means an individual identified in § 997.23(d)(3) or (f)(1) of these Regulations and satisfies the requirements listed in § 997.26(c).
System.
The term “System” means the National Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System established
in accordance with section 12304 of the ICOOS Act (33 U.S.C. 3603).
System Plan.
The term “System Plan” means the plan contained in the document entitled “Ocean.US Publication No. 9, The First Integrated Ocean Observing System (IOOS) Development Plan,” as updated by the Council under these regulations.
§ 997.2
Acceptance of procedures by a RCOS.
By its voluntary entrance or participation in the System, the RCOS acknowledges and accepts the procedures and requirements established by these regulations.

# Subpart B—Certification and Decertification Process for a Regional Coastal Observing System (RCOS)
§ 997.10
Eligibility.
Any non-Federal entity may submit an application for certification as an RCOS as defined in the ICOOS Act and these Regulations.
§ 997.11
Application process.
(a) The applicant for certification shall submit an application package containing the information and documentation outlined in subpart C of this part. The submission package shall include the application form, available online at
http://www.ioos.noaa.gov/certification.
(b) Submission shall be made to NOAA at the following address, or to such other address as may be indicated in the future: Director U.S. IOOS Office, NOAA, 1315 East West Hwy., Suite 3000, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Submissions may also be made online at
http://www.ioos.noaa.gov/certification.
[79 FR 32460, June 5, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 16634, Mar. 24, 2022]
§ 997.12
Review by NOAA.
(a) After receiving an application package, NOAA shall have up to 90 calendar days to review the application package and decide whether to certify the applicant.
(b) Before the 90 calendar days have elapsed, NOAA may request additional information, in which case NOAA shall have up to 30 additional calendar days after that additional information has been received by NOAA, above and beyond the original 90 calendar days, to review the application package and decide whether to certify the applicant.
(c) NOAA's decision whether to certify the applicant shall be based on whether the RCOS demonstrates that it satisfies the current IOOC certification criteria and these regulations.
§ 997.13
Certification process.
(a) NOAA's decision whether to certify the applicant, along with the reason for its decision, shall be delivered to the applicant via letter delivered by first class mail and by electronic means.
(b) Applicants receiving a certification determination in the affirmative shall be designated as “certified” RICEs by NOAA. NOAA shall memorialize this status via a memorandum of agreement with the applicant. Certification shall mean that an RCOS is incorporated into the System.
(c) A certified RCOS shall provide NOAA with written notification of the RICE's intention to substantively change its organizational structure or Strategic Operational Plan, and shall request approval from NOAA for the change. After receiving the written notification, NOAA shall have up to 30 calendar days to review the requested change and decide whether to approve the requested change. NOAA's decision, along with the reason for its decision, shall be included in a written notification to the RCOS.
§ 997.14
Certification duration and renewal.
(a) Certification of an RCOS shall be for a term of 5 years, unless otherwise specified by the NOAA Administrator.
(b) Certification may be renewed, at the request of the RCOS, for a period of five years. An RCOS seeking to renew its certification shall provide NOAA with a written request to renew at least 120 calendar days before the expiration of the existing certification. The request shall include the application form, available online at
http://www.ioos.noaa.gov/certification,
and all information providing evidence that
the applicant satisfies the IOOC certification criteria and NOAA regulations promulgated to certify and integrate non-Federal assets into the System.
(c) After receiving a written request for renewal of certification, NOAA shall have up to 90 calendar days to review the request and decide whether to renew the certification.
(d) Before the 90 calendar days have elapsed, NOAA may request additional information, in which case NOAA shall have up to 30 additional calendar days after that additional information has been received by NOAA, above and beyond the original 90 calendar days, to review the request and decide whether to renew the certification.
(e) NOAA's decision whether to renew the certification shall be based on whether the RCOS continues to demonstrate that it satisfies the current IOOC certification criteria and these regulations. NOAA's decision, along with the reason for its decision, shall be included in a written notification to the RCOS.
§ 997.15
Audit and decertification.
(a) NOAA may audit an RCOS that it has certified to ensure compliance with the IOOC certification criteria and these regulations. NOAA will notify the RCOS of its intent to conduct an audit and will coordinate with the RCOS on the audit schedule and process.
(b) NOAA may decertify an RCOS. In general, an RCOS may be decertified when:
(1) The results of an audit indicate that the RCOS no longer satisfies the requirements under which it was certified; or
(2) Other relevant reasons for decertification become apparent.
(c) NOAA's intent to decertify an RCOS, along with the identification of a specific deficiency(ies) and a recommended corrective action(s), shall be included in a written notification to the RICE. After receiving NOAA's written notification, an RCOS shall have up to 45 calendar days to request in writing that NOAA reconsider its intent to decertify the RCOS. The RCOS's request for reconsideration shall contain sufficient information for NOAA to determine whether to grant the request for reconsideration. Alternatively, the RCOS may correct the deficiency(ies) identified by NOAA within 45 calendar days, notify NOAA in writing of the corrective action(s) taken, and provide sufficient evidence for NOAA to determine the correctness and effectiveness of the corrective action(s) taken.
(d) If an RCOS submits to NOAA a written request for reconsideration or a written assertion that the identified deficiency(ies) has been corrected, NOAA shall have up to 60 calendar days after receipt of the request or assertion, to review the request for reconsideration or the assertion of corrective action. NOAA's decision, along with the reason for its decision, shall be delivered to the applicant via letter delivered by first class mail and by electronic means.
(e) Upon decertification, an RCOS shall no longer be incorporated into the System.
(f) An RCOS may act voluntarily to terminate its certification at any time by notifying NOAA in writing of its desire to do so. Upon receipt of the notification by NOAA, the RICE will no longer be incorporated into the System.
§ 997.16
Final action.
NOAA's decision, whether to certify, renew or decertify an RCOS shall be considered final agency action.

# Subpart C—Certification and Application Requirements for an RCOS
§ 997.20
General.
(a) For the purposes of these certification regulations, when the verb “describe” is used it indicates that the RICE shall give an account in text that responds to the requirement. This text shall contain sufficient information to demonstrate how the RCOS satisfies the certification requirement. The RCOS may include a link(s) to additional information. When the verb “document” is used, it indicates that the RCOS shall furnish a document(s) that responds to the requirement. A text statement accompanying the document(s) will normally be necessary to provide context for the document(s)
and to demonstrate how the RCOS satisfies the certification requirement. The RICE may include a link to a document in the accompanying text statement.
(b) Documentation that addresses the certification requirements may include references to existing RCOS documents. All documents and materials may be submitted directly to the U.S. IOOSOffice or made accessible for public viewing on the RCOS's Web site.
(c) To become certified, an RCOS must submit an application that addresses each of the requirements listed in this subpart.
§ 997.21
Organizational structure.
(a) To become certified, an RCOS must demonstrate an organizational structure capable of gathering required System observation data, supporting and integrating all aspects of coastal and ocean observing and information programs within a region and that reflects the needs of State and local governments, commercial interests, and other users and beneficiaries of the System and other requirements specified in this subchapter and the System Plan.
(b) The application shall:
(1) Describe the RCOS's organizational structure (e.g., 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization, establishment via MOU or MOA).
(2) Document the RCOS's ability to satisfy applicable legal criteria for accepting and disbursing funds, and entering into agreements. Sufficient documentation may be provided in the form of: Evidence of a current grant, cooperative agreement, or contract in good standing with the Federal government; or evidence of fiscal agreements, standard operating procedures for financial activities, and proof of an audit process.
(3) Document the RCOS's measures for addressing issues of accountability and liability. For this criterion, accountability and liability refer to the RCOS's governance and management activities. Sufficient documentation may be provided in the form of a conflict of interest policy for the Governing Board or governing body, which clearly states that a member of the governing board will declare any conflict of interest he or she may have and will recuse him or herself from associated funding decisions that may result in the Board member or a direct family member benefiting financially, and a policy statement in the RICE's by-laws that addresses liability issues.
(4) Describe the process the RCOS uses to set priorities for distributing funds (e.g., requirement for Governing Board or governing body approval when responding to funding opportunities or adjusting to funding level changes in existing agreements); and
(5) Document the by-laws, signed articles of agreement, or any binding agreements that demonstrate how the RCOS establishes and maintains a Governing Board or governing body. The documentation shall demonstrate:
(i) How the composition of the Governing Board or governing body is selected and how it is representative of regional ocean observing interests. NOAA defines “representative” in this specific context to include geographic, sector, expertise, and stakeholder considerations.
(ii) How and with what frequency the RCOS solicits and receives advice on RICE participant diversity, stakeholder coordination, and engagement strategies, to ensure the provision of data and information that satisfy the needs of user groups.
(iii) How the RCOS collects and assesses user feedback to gauge the effectiveness of the regional system and subsystems in satisfying user needs, and how the RCOS responds to this user feedback in setting its priorities. Sufficient documentation may be provided in the form of a description of the method the RCOS uses in its annual planning process to assess priorities among the identified user needs in the region and to respond to those user needs, and
(iv) Steps the RCOS takes to ensure decisions on priorities and overall regional system design are transparent and available. At a minimum, RCOS priorities and regional system design decisions shall be made accessible for public viewing on the RCOS's Web site.
§ 997.22
Membership policy.
The application shall describe:
(a) The process by which individuals or organizations may formally participate in the governance activities of the RCOS;
(b) The rights and responsibilities of this participation;
(c) The process by which theRCOS strives for organizational diversity through intra-regional geographic representation, and diversity of activities and interests from both public and private sectors; and
(d) How the RCOS allows for participation from adjacent regions or nations.
§ 997.23
Strategic operational plan.
(a)(1) To become certified, an RCOS must:
(i) Develop and operate under a strategic operational plan that will ensure the efficient and effective administration of programs and assets to support daily data observations for integration into the System, pursuant to the standards approved by the Council; and
(ii) Work cooperatively with governmental and non-governmental entities to identify and provide information products of the System for multiple users within the service area of the regional information coordination entities.
(2) The application must contain a Strategic Operational Plan, which is a high-level document that outlines how an RCOS manages and operates an integrated regional observing system. This Plan should evolve as an RCOS matures, new technologies become available, regional priorities change, and new users and stakeholders are identified. The Plan may be responsive to changing funding levels, and shall contain sections that each address the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, referencing other plans directly when applicable.
(b)
Background and Context.
The Strategic Operational Plan shall contain a Background and Context section that describes:
(1) The role of the RCOS in furthering the development of the regional component of the System;
(2) The process by which the RCOS updates the Strategic Operational Plan at least once every five years and how the RICE seeks inputs from the broader user community; and
(3) The RCOS's primary partners and any contributing observing systems. For the purposes of § 997.23, NOAA defines a primary partner as any organization or individual that contributes significant staff time, funding or other resources to project activities. This is not an exhaustive list of all RCOS partners but the primary partners the RICE is working with on a given project.
(c)
Goals and Objectives.
The Strategic Operational Plan shall contain a Goals and Objective section that describe:
(1) How the RCOS addresses marine operations; coastal hazards; ecosystems, fisheries and water quality; and climate variability and change; and
(2) The major objectives that guide the RCOS's priorities for data collection and management, development of products and services, research and development, and education and outreach.
(d)
Operational Plan for the Observing System.
The Strategic Operational Plan shall include or reference an Operational Plan for the Observing System that:
(1) Describes the desired outcomes of the observing system;
(2) Describes the elements of the operational integrated observing system that will deliver those outcomes;
(3) Documents to NOAA's satisfaction that the individual(s) responsible for RCOS operations has the necessary qualifications and possesses relevant professional education and work experience to deliver observations successfully. At a minimum the Strategic Operational Plan shall:
(i) Identify the individual(s) responsible for overall RCOS management;
(ii) Identify, as applicable, the individual(s) responsible for observations system management across the region;
(iii) Provide the curriculum vitae for each identified individual; and
(iv) Identify the procedures used to evaluate the capability of the individual(s) identified in § 997.23(d)(3) to conduct the assigned duties responsibly; and
(4) Describes how the RCOS manages ongoing regional system operations
and maintenance. At a minimum the Strategic Operational Plan shall:
(i) Describe the RCOS's standard operating procedures for calibrating, validating, operating, and maintaining equipment owned and/or operated by the RCOS regularly and in accordance with manufacturer guidance or industry best practice. Equipment is defined in § 997.1; and
(ii) Describe the RCOS's standard operating procedures for maintaining equipment inventories, shipping logs and instrument history logs for equipment owned and/or operated by the RCOS.
(e)
Development of a Strategy to Sustain and Enhance the System.
The Strategic Operational Plan shall describe its strategy for balancing changes in regional priorities with the need to maintain established data sets, the primary value of which may be in their long-term records. At a minimum the description shall:
(1) Identify the guiding principles that inform the strategy;
(2) Reference and show connections to a long-term (five-to-ten-year) regional Build-out Plan for the full implementation of the regional observing system based on the RCOS's priorities and identified user needs; and
(3) Relate the annual planning process the RCOS uses to review its priorities in light of funding levels and its plans for system enhancement as outlined in the regional Build-out Plan.
(f)
Data Management and Communications (DMAC) Plan.
The Strategic Operational Plan shall include or reference a DMAC Plan that:
(1) Documents to NOAA's satisfaction that the individual(s) responsible for management of data operations for the RCOS has the necessary technical skills, and possesses relevant professional education and work experience to support DMAC capabilities and functionality for the System. At a minimum the DMAC Plan shall:
(i) Identify the individual(s) responsible for the coordination and management of observation data across the region;
(ii) Provide the curriculum vitae for the identified individual(s); and
(iii) Identify the procedures used to evaluate the capability of the individual(s) identified in § 997.23(f)(1) to conduct the assigned duties responsibly.
(2) Describes how data are ingested, managed and distributed, including a description of the flow of data through the RCOS data assembly center from the source to the public dissemination/access mechanism. The description shall include any transformations or modifications of data along the data flow pathway including, but not limited to, format translations or aggregations of component data streams into an integrated product.
(3) Describes the data quality control procedures that have been applied to data, not obtained through a federal data source, that are distributed by the RCOS. All data shall be quality controlled and QARTOD procedures shall be employed for data with QARTOD manuals. For each data stream, describe the quality control procedure applied to the data, by the RCOS or other named entity, between the data's collection and publication by the RICE. The description will also include a reference to the procedure used.
(4) Adheres to the NOAA Data Sharing Procedural Directive.
1
The System is an operational system; therefore the RICE should strive to provide as much data as possible, in real-time or near real-time, to support the operation of the System. When data are collected in part or in whole with funds distributed to an RCOS through the U.S. IOOSOffice, the RICE should strive to make the data available as soon as logistically feasible for each data stream. When data are not collected with funds distributed to an RCOS through the U.S. IOOSOffice, the data may be made available in accordance with any agreement made with the data provider.
1
NOAA Data Sharing Policy for Grants and Cooperative Agreements Procedural Directive, Version 2.0
https://www.nosc.noaa.gov/EDMC/documents/EDMC_PD-DSPNG_final_v2.pdf.
(5) Describes how the RCOS will implement data management protocols promulgated by the IOOC and the U.S. IOOSOffice in a reasonable and timely manner as defined for each protocol; and
(6) Documents the RCOS's data archiving process or describes how the RICE intends to archive data at a national archive center (e.g., NODC, NGDC, NCDC) in a manner that follows guidelines outlined by that center. Documentation shall be in the form of a Submission Agreement, Submission Information Form (SIF) or other, similar data producer-archive agreement.
(g)
Budget Plan.
The Strategic Operational Plan shall include or reference a Budget Plan that:
(1) Identifies who supports the RICE financially;
(2) Identifies how RCOS priorities guide funding decisions; and
(3) Assesses funding constraints and the associated risks to the observing System that the RCOS must address for the future.
§ 997.24
Gaps identification.
(a) To become certified, an RCOS must identify gaps in observation coverage needs for capital improvements of Federal assets and non-Federal assets of the System, or other recommendations to assist in the development of annual and long-terms plans and transmit such information to the Interagency Ocean Observing Committee via the Program Office.
(b) The application shall:
(1) Document that the RCOS's asset inventory contains up-to-date information. This could be demonstrated by a database or portal accessible for public viewing and capable of producing a regional summary of observing capacity;
(2) Provide a regional Build-out Plan that identifies the regional priorities for products and services, based on its understanding of regional needs, and a description of the integrated system (observations, modeling, data management, product development, outreach, and R
D). The RCOS shall review and update the Build-out Plan at least once every five years; and
(3) Document the priority regional gaps in observation coverage needs, as determined by an analysis of the RICE asset inventory and Build-out Plan. The RCOS shall review and update the analysis of priority regional gaps in observation coverage needs at least once every five years.
§ 997.25
Financial oversight.
(a) To become certified, an RCOS must comply with all financial oversight requirements established by the Administrator, including requirement relating to audits.
(b) The application shall document compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in 2 CFR Part 215—Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-profit Organizations, Subpart C—Post Award Requirements. Subpart C prescribes standards for financial management systems, among others. (Compliance with this criterion can be demonstrated by referencing any existing grant, cooperative agreement, or contract the RICE has with NOAA.)
(c) The RCOS shall document annually the RCOS's operating and maintenance costs for all observing platforms and sensors, etc., owned and/or operated by the RCOS. This information shall be made available to NOAA upon request.
§ 997.26
Civil liability.
(a) For purposes of determining liability arising from the dissemination and use of observation data gathered pursuant to the ICOOS Act and these regulations, any non-Federal asset or regional information coordination entity incorporated into the System by contract, lease, grant, or cooperative agreement that is participating in the System shall be considered to be part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Any employee of such a non-Federal asset or regional information coordination entity, while operating within the scope of his or her employment in carrying out the purposes of this subtitle, with respect to tort liability, is deemed to be an employee of the Federal Government.
(b) The ICOOS Act's grant of civil liability protection (and thus the RCOS's limited status as part of NOAA) applies only to an RCOS that:
(1) Is participating in the System, meaning the RCOS has been certified by NOAA in accordance with the ICOOS Act and these regulations; and
(2) Has been integrated into the System by memorandum of agreement with NOAA.
(c) An “employee” of a regional information coordination entity is an individual who satisfies all of the following requirements:
(1) The individual is employed or contracted by a certified RCOS that has been integrated into the System by memorandum of agreement with NOAA, and that is participating in the System, as defined in § 997.26(b);
(2) The individual is identified by the RCOS, as required in § 997.23(d)(3) and (f)(1)(i), as one of the individuals responsible for the collection, management, or dissemination of ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes observation data; and
(3) The individual is responsive to federal government control.
(d) The protection afforded to employees of an RCOS with regard to liability applies only to specific individuals employed or contracted by an RCOS who meet the requirements of § 997.26(c) and who are responsible for the collection, management, or dissemination of ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes observation data. The RCOS must identify to NOAA's satisfaction: The individual(s) responsible for overall system management, as applicable, the individual(s) responsible for observations system management across the region, and the individual(s) responsible for management of data operations across the region. In accepting certification, the RCOS will concede to NOAA the power to ensure these individuals comply with the requirements of this rule in their daily operations and that they are responsive to NOAA through the agreement the RCOS has with NOAA.

# SUBCHAPTER H—REGULATIONS OF NOAA MARINE AND AVIATION
Pt. 998

# PART 998—MARINE AND AVIATION OPERATIONS

# Subpart A—Administrative
Sec.
998.1
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Appointment of Officer Candidates of the Commissioned Officer Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
998.10
Appointments of officer candidates.
998.11
Qualifications of officer candidates.
998.12
Selection of officer candidates.

# Subpart C—Active Duty Service Obligations of NOAA Corps Officers
998.20
Applicability.
998.21
Purpose.
998.22
Policy.
998.23
Service obligations for original appointments.
998.24
Service obligations for NOAA Corps or officer training and education.
998.25
Service obligations for civilian training and advanced education.
998.26
Computation of service obligations for NOAA Corps and officer training and civilian training and advanced education.
998.27
Service obligations for undergraduate assistance programs.
998.28
Notification and verification of active duty service obligations.
998.29
Waivers or suspension of compliance.
998.30
Repayment for failure to satisfy service requirements.

# Subpart D—National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps Whistleblower Protections
998.40
Purpose.
998.41
Applicability.
998.42
Definitions.
998.43
Requirements.
998.44
Responsibilities.
998.45
Procedures.

# Subpart E—Shore Leave
998.50
Applicability.
998.51
Definitions.
998.52
Computation of shore leave.
998.53
Granting shore leave.
998.54
Pay for temporary promotion.

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.

# Source:
87 FR 31708, May 25, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Administrative

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
§ 998.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Administration
means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).
Administrator
means the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and NOAA Administrator.
ADSO
means active duty service obligation.
Chain of command
means the succession of commanding officers from a superior to a subordinate through which command is exercised, and the succession of officers or civilian personnel through whom administrative control is exercised, including supervision and rating of performance.
Civilian training and advanced education
means education or training above the secondary school level but does not include technical training (such as maritime and aviation training provided to a member to qualify such member to perform a specified military or operational function), workshops, or short-term training programs.
Director
means the Director of NOAA Corps and the Office of Marine and Aviation Operations.
Officer candidate
means an individual who is enrolled in the basic officer training program of the Administration and is under consideration for appointment as an officer under the appointment authority for graduates of the basic officer training program of the commissioned officer corps of the Administration (33 U.S.C. 3021(a)(2)(A)).
NOAA Corps
means the commissioned officer corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce.
Written agreement
means an agreement entered into between the Secretary and a NOAA Corps officer or officer candidate that describes the officer's obligated service requirements in return for appointments, training, promotions, separations, continuations, and retirements as the Secretary considers appropriate.

# Subpart B—Appointment of Officer Candidates of the Commissioned Officer Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 3006, 3021, 3034; 37 U.S.C. 203(f).
§ 998.10
Appointments of officer candidates.
(a) The Secretary shall determine the number of appointments of officer candidates annually.
(b) Applicants for an appointment as an officer candidate shall meet all qualifications described in § 998.11.
(c) Selection and appointment of officer candidates shall be made according to the procedures described in § 998.12.
(d) The Secretary may dismiss any officer candidate from the NOAA Corps Basic Officer Training Class who, during the candidate's term as an officer candidate, the Secretary considers unsatisfactory in either academics or conduct, or not adapted for a career in the NOAA Corps. Officer candidates shall be subject to all rules governing discipline prescribed by the Director.
(e) Each officer candidate shall sign an agreement with the Secretary regarding the officer candidate's term of service in the NOAA Corps, which shall provide that the candidate agrees to:
(1) Complete the course of instruction of the NOAA Corps Basic Officer Training Class;
(2) Upon graduation from the Basic Officer Training Class program, accept an appointment, if tendered, to the grade of ensign; and
(3) Serve on active duty in the NOAA Corps for at least four years immediately after such appointment.
(f) An officer candidate or former officer candidate who is on active duty but who has not yet met their initial service obligation under paragraph (e)(3) of this section shall be considered to be in breach of their written agreement if they do not fulfill the terms of their service.
(g) An individual found to be in breach of their written agreement shall be subject to the repayment provisions of § 998.30.
§ 998.11
Qualifications of officer candidates.
(a) Original appointments to the NOAA Corps are made based on the qualifications of individual applicants and the needs of the NOAA Corps. Each applicant must:
(1) Be a citizen of the United States of good moral character;
(2) Be able to obtain and maintain a security clearance level of Secret;
(3) Meet physical and mental qualifications as the Secretary may direct, such as physical fitness, medical, dental, and mental examinations;
(4) Hold a baccalaureate degree, preferably in a major course of study related to NOAA's scientific or technical activities, awarded from an accredited postsecondary institution. All applicants, regardless of degree(s) awarded, must have completed at least 48 semester (72 quarter) hours in math, science, or engineering coursework pertaining to NOAA's mission unless waived by the Director based on the needs of the NOAA Corps; and
(5) Have not twice failed selection for promotion in another uniformed service.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 998.12
Selection of officer candidates.
(a) The Secretary shall prescribe the number of applicants to be selected for officer candidates and the basic qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of the NOAA Corps.
(b) A personnel board convened pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 3022 shall review all qualified applicants and make recommendations for appointment to the Secretary and the President. Applicants shall be rated on collegiate record, work experience, references, the report of the interviewing officer, and all other available information.
(c) Upon review of the recommendations of the personnel board, the Secretary shall make those temporary appointments in the grade of officer candidate as deemed appropriate. An original appointment of an officer candidate, upon graduation from the Basic Officer Training Class program of the NOAA Corps, may not be made in any other grade than ensign.
(d) Officer candidates receiving appointments as ensigns upon graduation from the Basic Officer Training Class program shall take rank according to their proficiency as shown by the order of their merit at date of graduation.

# Subpart C—Active Duty Service Obligations of NOAA Corps Officers

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2005; 33 U.S.C. 3006, 3071(a)(22); 37 U.S.C. 303a(e), 373.
§ 998.20
Applicability.
This subpart applies to all active duty NOAA Corps officers and officer candidates.
§ 998.21
Purpose.
(a) This subpart establishes policies and procedures for the receipt, computation, and notice of ADSOs for all commissioned officers on the active duty lineal list. It also describes how multiple ADSOs incurred by the same officer are managed.
(b) The ADSOs are intended to assist the NOAA Corps in:
(1) Effectively managing its resources and workforce;
(2) Accomplishing its assigned missions;
(3) Maintaining an experienced and well-qualified officer force; and
(4) Ensuring a reasonable return to the NOAA Corps following an expenditure of public funds.
(c) Public funds are expended starting with the commissioning phase through the NOAA Corps Basic Officer Training Class and other commissioning programs. It continues when an officer enters active duty and enters training or education programs to qualify for specialized knowledge and skills.
§ 998.22
Policy.
(a) In general, individuals entering active duty in the NOAA Corps must complete at least four years of obligated service upon appointment.
(b) NOAA Corps officers who complete Government-funded or -sponsored formal education and training programs shall incur an ADSO. Officers must fulfill ADSOs before they are eligible for voluntary separation. The Director may grant a waiver of the ADSO as described in § 998.29. Officers will not be further obligated beyond the dates that ADSOs are fulfilled without their written consent. Officers who attend NOAA Corps and officer training programs, or civilian courses of instruction as stated in this Subpart may incur an ADSO for up to six years upon completion or termination from the course(s).
(c) All NOAA Corps officers shall enter into written agreements that describe the officer's obligated service requirements prescribed in this subpart in return for such Government-funded or -sponsored education and training. The written agreement shall document the total cost of training that may be subject to the repayment provisions of § 998.30.
§ 998.23
Service obligations for original appointments.
Officer candidates accepting an original appointment in the NOAA Corps upon graduation from the NOAA Corps Basic Officer Training Class as described in subpart B of this part shall incur an ADSO of 4 years.
§ 998.24
Service obligations for NOAA Corps or officer training and education.
(a) NOAA Corps officers who attend any NOAA Corps or uniformed service officer training or education whose course of instruction is longer than 60 days or produces a duty under instruction officer evaluation report for long term training shall incur an ADSO to begin upon completion of the course or termination of attendance. If the officer does not complete the NOAA Corps or officer training, the ADSO shall still apply. The ADSO shall be calculated according to § 998.26. For the purpose of determining ADSOs, all aviation and
maritime training longer than 60 days, not including the Basic Officer Training Class, shall be considered to be NOAA Corps or officer training. Exceptions to the computation standards in § 998.26 for NOAA Corps and officer training are as follows:
(1) Officers who attend initial fixed-wing multi-engine flight training shall incur a six-year ADSO upon completion of the course or termination of attendance;
(2) Officers who attend heavy aircraft flight training for the first time shall incur a four-year ADSO upon completion of the course or termination of attendance;
(3) Officers who attend heavy aircraft flight training for a second time for the purpose of qualification on new airframes shall incur a three-year ADSO upon completion of the course or termination of attendance;
(4) Officers who attend a test pilot school longer than six months (including the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School and U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School) shall incur a four-year ADSO upon completion of the course or termination of attendance; and
(5) Officers selected as candidates for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Astronaut Corps shall incur a three-year ADSO upon the conclusion of their detail and return to the NOAA Corps.
(b)
Concurrent obligations.
An ADSO incurred under this section shall be served concurrently with an ADSO previously incurred under any other section of this part, or any other provision of law, except as provided for officers on active duty entering into an agreement for education loan repayment under § 998.27(a). When a newly incurred ADSO under this section is to be served concurrently with an existing ADSO, the obligated period will be equal to the length of the longest remaining obligation. The Commissioned Personnel Center will track each ADSO independently and notify the officer when each is fulfilled.
(c)
Consideration of NOAA Corps and officer training toward fulfillment of other service obligations.
Time spent in NOAA Corps or officer training is considered active duty service and shall be credited toward fulfilling an ADSO previously incurred under any other section of this part, or any other provision of law.
§ 998.25
Service obligations for civilian training and advanced education.
(a)
Full-time courses.
Officers who attend full-time courses at civilian institutions that are fully funded by NOAA for more than 60 days will incur an ADSO to begin upon completion of the course or termination of attendance. One ADSO will be incurred per written agreement for training or education, as provided under § 998.22. If the officer does not complete the course of instruction, the ADSO shall still apply. The ADSO shall be calculated according to § 998.26.
(b)
Part-time courses.
Officers who participate in part-time courses at civilian institutions that are fully funded by NOAA for more than 60 days will incur an ADSO upon completion of the course or termination of attendance. One ADSO will be incurred per written agreement for training or education, as provided under § 998.22. If the officer does not complete the course of instruction, the ADSO shall still apply. The ADSO will equal the length of training or education, computed in days. The length of training or education will be computed from the first day of instruction until the last day, to include breaks, weekends, holidays, and summers, regardless of whether the officer attended classes during those periods.
(c)
NOAA Leadership Competencies Development Program.
NOAA Corps officers who participate in NOAA's Leadership Competencies Development Program shall incur an ADSO of two years upon graduation from the program.
(d)
Voluntary disenrollment or disenrollment for poor performance.
If an officer voluntarily terminates their enrollment or is required to disenroll due to poor performance in a program under this section, the ADSO will be based on what would have been the expected graduation date.
(e)
Disenrollment for mission needs.
Each written agreement for civilian training or advanced education under this subpart shall provide that if an officer terminates enrollment because of a recall to meet urgent mission needs
as determined by the Director, no ADSO will be incurred.
(f)
Consecutive obligations.
ADSOs resulting from more than one written agreement for civilian education under this section are to be served consecutively. For example, an officer completing a NOAA-funded graduate certificate course of instruction under one written agreement followed by a NOAA-funded master's degree under a second written agreement will incur multiple ADSOs to be served consecutively. The ADSOs will be calculated separately for each written agreement according to § 998.26. When a newly incurred ADSO is to be served consecutively with another, add the period of the new ADSO to the remaining portion of the existing ADSO. In cases where the compounded period of consecutive ADSOs exceeds six years, it will be capped at 6 years.
(g)
Concurrent obligations.
An ADSO incurred under this section can be served concurrently with an ADSO previously incurred under any other section of this part or any other provision of law. When a newly incurred ADSO under this section is to be served concurrently with an existing ADSO under another section of this part, the officer's total obligated period will be equal to the length of the longest remaining obligation. The Commissioned Personnel Center will track each ADSO independently and notify the officer when each is fulfilled.
(h)
Consideration of civilian education and training toward fulfillment of other service obligations.
Time spent at a civilian education or training program is considered active duty service and shall be credited toward fulfilling an ADSO incurred under any other section of this part or any other provision of law. The time spent attending a civilian education or training program under one written agreement will not be credited toward fulfilling an existing ADSO for a previous civilian education or training program under a previous written agreement incurred under this section.
§ 998.26
Computation of service obligations for NOAA Corps and officer training and civilian training and advanced education.
Service obligations incurred under § 998.24 and § 998.25(a) are computed as shown in this section, with the exception of fixed-period ADSOs as provided under § 998.24(a)(1) through (5). Officers may accumulate more than one ADSO from multiple obligating events. When an officer incurs an ADSO, compute the ADSO using the following rules:
(a) For obligating events that require calculation:
(1) For training greater than 60 days but equal to or fewer than 365 days:
(i)
Step 1.
Count the number of calendar days of the course of instruction using the beginning and end dates of the course, including breaks, weekends, holidays, and summers, regardless of whether the officers attended classes during those periods.
(ii)
Step 2.
Multiply the total found in Step 1 by three to get the total length of the ADSO in days.
(iii)
Step 3.
Add the number of days found in Step 2 to the end date of the training to determine the date that the ADSO will expire.
(iv)
Example.
An officer attends a semester-long civilian course of instruction that begins on January 1, 2021, and ends on May 30, 2021.
(A)
Step 1.
January 1, 2021 to May 30, 2021 = 150 training days.
(B)
Step 2.
150 training days × 3 = 450 days, or 1 year, 85 days ADSO length.
(C)
Step 3.
May 30, 2021 + 450 days = August 23, 2022 ADSO expiration.
(2) For training greater than 365 days:
(i)
Step 1.
The first 365 days of training automatically incur three years ADSO.
(ii)
Step 2.
Count the number of additional training days from the 366th day to the end date of the course, including breaks, weekends, holidays, and summers, regardless of whether the officers attended classes during those periods.
(iii)
Step 3.
Add the number of days found in Step 2 to three years to determine the total ADSO length.
(iv)
Step 4.
Add the total ADSO length found in Step 3 to the end date of the training to determine the date that the ADSO will expire.
(v)
Example.
An officer attends a full-time civilian postgraduate program that spans three academic years, beginning on September 1, 2021 and graduating on May 31, 2024.
(A)
Step 1.
First year: September 1, 2021 to August 31, 2022 = 3 year ADSO.
(B)
Step 2.
Additional training time: September 1, 2022 to May 31, 2024 = 639 days or 1 year, 274 days.
(C)
Step 3.
3-year ADSO + 639 days = 4 years, 274 days total ADSO length.
(D)
Step 4.
May 31, 2024 + 4 years, 274 days = March 1, 2029 ADSO expiration.
(b) The officer will ensure that supporting documents for each event are submitted to the NOAA Commissioned Personnel Center for review and verification for accurate calculation of their ADSO. The length of the ADSO shall be identified in the written agreement with the officer described in § 998.22(c).
§ 998.27
Service obligations for undergraduate assistance programs.
(a)
Education Loan Repayment Program.
An individual who enters into a written agreement to serve on active duty in the NOAA Corps as part of an education loan repayment program authorized by 33 U.S.C. 3077 shall serve one year for each maximum annual amount or portion thereof paid on behalf of the individual for qualified loans. If an individual is on active duty when entering into the agreement and has an existing ADSO, the ADSO incurred under this subsection must be served consecutively to any other existing ADSO. If an individual is not on active duty when entering into an agreement, the ADSO under this paragraph (a) may be served concurrently with an ADSO incurred under § 998.23. ADSOs incurred under § 998.24 and § 998.25 after an ADSO is incurred under this paragraph (a) may be served concurrently with the ADSO incurred under this paragraph (a).
(b)
Student Pre-Commissioning Assistance Program.
An individual entering into a written agreement for pre-commissioning education assistance authorized by 33 U.S.C. 3079 shall agree to serve on active duty for:
(1) Three years if the individual received fewer than three years of assistance; and
(2) Five years if the individual received at least three years of assistance.
(c)
Concurrent obligations.
An ADSO incurred under paragraph (b) of this section may be served concurrently with an ADSO incurred under §§ 998.23, 998.24, and 998.25.
§ 998.28
Notification and verification of active duty service obligations.
NOAA Corps officers will be informed of their ADSOs under this part as indicated:
(a) The NOAA Corps Commissioned Personnel Center shall—
(1) Maintain and make available for review to the officer a copy of the written agreement specifying the length of service obligation incurred; and
(2) Verify that officers meet the requirements of their written agreements and determine if a breach has occurred and, if so, notify the officer of such determination in writing.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 998.29
Waivers or suspension of compliance.
(a) The Secretary may waive the service obligations of an officer incurred under § 998.23, § 998.24, and § 998.27 who:
(1) Becomes unqualified to serve on active duty in the NOAA Corps because of a circumstance not within the control of that officer; or
(2) Is:
(i) Not physically qualified for appointment; and
(ii) Determined to be unqualified for service in the NOAA Corps because of a physical or medical condition that was not the result of the officer's own misconduct or grossly negligent conduct.
(b) The Secretary may waive the service obligations of an officer incurred under § 998.25 who fails to satisfy the eligibility requirements if the Secretary determines that the imposition of the repayment requirement and the termination of unpaid amounts of such assistance would be—
(1) Contrary to personnel policy or management objective;
(2) Against equity and good conscience; or
(3) Contrary to the best interest of the United States.
(c) With respect to a service obligation under § 998.27(a), the Secretary may relieve an officer's ADSO and provide an alternative obligation at the discretion of the Secretary, the terms of which will be documented in a new written agreement.
(d) The authorities provided in this part to grant waivers or exceptions will be referenced in all written agreements.
§ 998.30
Repayment for failure to satisfy service requirements.
(a) An officer who fails to satisfy eligibility requirements or to meet the service requirements prescribed in §§ 998.23, 998.24, 998.25, 998.27(a), and 998.27(b) is required to reimburse the Government in an amount that bears the same ratio of the total costs of the training or education provided to that officer as the unserved portion of active duty bears to the total period of active duty the officer agreed to serve, unless waived by the Secretary under § 998.29(a) or (b). Calculation of the total cost of training subject to repayment includes tuition and matriculation fees, library and laboratory services, purchase or rental of books, materials, and supplies, but does not include travel, lodging, salary, or other allowances otherwise entitled to the individual. The total cost shall be calculated by the NOAA Commissioned Personnel Center and included in any written agreement.
(b) An obligation to reimburse the Government under this Section is, for all purposes, a debt owed to the United States.
(c) A discharge in bankruptcy under title 11 of the U.S. Code that is entered less than 5 years after the termination of a written agreement entered into under this part does not discharge the individual signing the agreement from a debt arising under such agreement.

# Subpart D—National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps Whistleblower Protections

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 3071(a)(8), (a)(13), (b), and (c); 10 U.S.C. 1034 and 1090a.

# Source:
87 FR 59672, Oct. 3, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 998.40
Purpose.
This subpart—
(a) Establishes policy and implements 33 U.S.C. 3071(a)(8), (a)(13), (b), and (c) to provide protection against reprisal to NOAA Corps officers for making or preparing or being perceived as making or preparing a protected communication.
(b) Assigns responsibilities and delegates authority for such protection against reprisal and prescribes procedures.
§ 998.41
Applicability.
This subpart applies to NOAA Corps officers, personnel boards convened by the Director of Office of Marine and Aviation Operations (OMAO) and the NOAA Corps (Director), and the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce.
§ 998.42
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the meaning stated:
Corrective action
means any action deemed necessary to make the complainant whole, changes in agency regulations or practices, administrative or disciplinary action against offending personnel, and/or referral to the United States Attorney General of any evidence of criminal violation.
Inspector General
means the Inspector General in the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Commerce or any other Inspector General, as appointed under the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended.
Investigation report
means a report issued by the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce that includes a thorough review of the facts and circumstances relevant to an allegation of reprisal against a NOAA Corps officer, the relevant documents acquired during the investigation, and summaries of interviews conducted.
Personnel action
means an action taken, or the failure to take an action, that affects or has the potential to affect a NOAA Corps officer's position
and/or career. Personnel actions include disciplinary or corrective actions; a transfer or reassignment; significant changes in the duties or responsibilities of a NOAA Corps officer not commensurate with their grade; an inaccurate assessment of an officer's performance, skills, qualities, aptitudes, potential, or value to the NOAA Corps in the NOAA Corps officer's annual or semiannual officer evaluation reports; a decision concerning promotion, pay, benefits, awards, or training; separation; discharge; referral for mental health evaluations in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1090a; the failure of a superior to respond to a retaliatory or harassment action against a NOAA Corps officer by one or more subordinate when the superior had knowledge of the retaliatory or harassment action; and conducting a retaliatory investigation against a NOAA Corps officer.
Protected communication
means any lawful communication to a Member of Congress or an Inspector General; or a communication in which a NOAA Corps officer complains of, or discloses information that they reasonably believe evidences a violation of law or regulation (including sexual harassment or discrimination), gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds or other resources, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, when such communication is made to any of the following: a Member of Congress; an Inspector General; a member of a Department of Commerce audit, inspection, investigation, or law enforcement organization; any person or organization in the chain of command; and any other person or organization designated pursuant to regulations or other established administrative procedures to receive such communications.
Records Examination Board
means a NOAA Corps personnel board convened by the Director to determine whether information contained in a NOAA Corps officer's personnel files should be corrected.
Reprisal
means taking or threatening to take an unfavorable personnel action, or withholding or threatening to withhold a favorable personnel action against a NOAA Corps officer for making or preparing or being perceived as making or preparing a protected communication.
Retaliatory investigation
means an investigation requested, directed, initiated, or conducted for the purpose of punishing, harassing, or ostracizing a NOAA Corps officer for making a protected communication.
§ 998.43
Requirements.
(a) No person within the Department of Commerce may restrict a NOAA Corps officer from making a lawful communication to a Member of Congress or an Inspector General.
(b) A NOAA Corps officer shall be free from reprisal for making or preparing or being perceived as making or preparing a protected communication.
(c) Any NOAA Corps officer or employee of the Department of Commerce who has the authority to take, direct others to take, or recommend or approve any personnel action shall not, under such authority, take or threaten to take a personnel action, or withhold or threaten to withhold a personnel action, as reprisal against any NOAA Corps officer for making or preparing or being perceived as making or preparing a protected communication.
§ 998.44
Responsibilities.
(a) The Inspector General of the Department of Commerce:
(1) Shall expeditiously determine whether there is sufficient evidence to warrant an investigation of an allegation that a personnel action has been taken, withheld, or threatened as reprisal for making or preparing or being perceived as making or preparing a protected communication. No investigation is required when such allegation is submitted more than 1 year after the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer became aware of the personnel action that is the subject of the allegation. However, the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce may consider a complaint of reprisal received more than 1 year later based on compelling reasons or circumstances. These circumstances may include situations in which the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer:
(i) Was actively misled regarding their rights; or
(ii) Was prevented from exercising their rights.
(2) Shall, if an investigation described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is warranted, initiate a separate investigation of the underlying allegations contained in the protected communication if a prior investigation has not already been initiated, or if the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce determines that the prior investigation was biased or inadequate.
(3) Shall, except as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, complete the investigation of the allegation of reprisal and issue a report not later than 180 days after receipt of the allegation, which shall include a thorough review of the facts and circumstances relevant to the allegation, the relevant documents acquired during the investigation, and summaries of interviews conducted. The report may also include a recommendation as to the disposition of the complaint.
(4) Shall submit a copy of the investigation report to the Secretary, the Administrator, the NOAA Deputy Under Secretary for Operations, the Director, and to the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer making the allegation. In the copy of the investigation report transmitted to the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer, the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce shall ensure the maximum disclosure of information possible, with the exception of information that is not required to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552
et seq.
). The Inspector General of the Department of Commerce may withhold the summaries of interviews conducted and documents acquired during the course of the investigation in the copy of the investigation report transmitted to the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer. If requested under this paragraph (a)(4), the summaries of interviews conducted and documents acquired during the course of the investigation shall be transmitted to the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer, with the exception of information that is not required to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act. This disclosure is separate from a disclosure resulting from a request submitted pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act or the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a
et seq.
). All other releases of information not made in accordance with this paragraph (a)(4) shall be processed pursuant to the respective disclosure statute that governs the request seeking those records. The items may be transmitted with the copy of the investigation report or within a reasonable time after the transmittal of the copy of the investigation report to the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer, regardless of whether the request for those items is made before or after the copy of the investigation report is transmitted to the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer.
(5) Shall, if a determination is made that the investigation report cannot be issued within 180 days of receipt of the allegation, notify the Secretary and the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer making the allegation of the current progress of the investigation, the reasons why the investigation report will not be submitted within that time, and estimate the time remaining until completion and transmittal. Every 180 days thereafter until the transmission of the investigation report, the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce shall notify the Secretary and NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer making the allegation of the current progress of the investigation and estimated time remaining until completion and transmittal of the investigation report.
(6) At the request of the Records Examination Board, shall submit a copy of the investigation report to the Records Examination Board. If the Records Examination Board requests further evidence and a further report as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce shall respond within 30 days, and not later than every 30 days thereafter, until the transmission of the further report.
(b) The Records Examination Board, under directions prescribed by the Director:
(1) Shall consider an application for the correction of records made by a NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer who has filed a complaint investigated by the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce alleging that a personnel action was taken, withheld, or threatened in reprisal for making or preparing or being perceived as making or preparing a protected communication.
(2) Shall review the investigation report issued by the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce.
(3) May ask the Inspector General to gather further evidence and issue a further report to the Records Examination Board.
(4) Shall provide a summary of the record of its proceedings, along with its recommendations, to the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer who has filed a complaint not later than 90 days after the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer made a request to convene such a Records Examination Board.
(5) Shall issue an appropriate recommendation to the Director concerning corrections, deletions, or additions to the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer's records not later than 90 days after the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer made a request to the Director to convene such a Records Examination Board. If the Records Examination Board requests a further report as provided under paragraph (b)(3) of this section and determines that it cannot issue recommendations within 90 days, the Records Examination Board shall notify the officer or former officer and the Director and provide an estimate of time remaining until completion.
(c) If the Records Examination Board determines that a personnel action was taken, withheld, or threatened in reprisal for a NOAA Corps officer making or preparing or being perceived as making or preparing a protected communication, the Records Examination Board shall forward its recommendation to the Director for appropriate correction of the NOAA Corps officer's or former NOAA Corps officer's records.
(d) When reprisal is found, the Director:
(1) Shall issue a decision concerning the correction of the NOAA Corps officer's or former NOAA Corps officer's records within 60 days of receiving the Records Examination Board's decision, but no sooner than 20 days after receiving the Records Examination Board decision to allow sufficient time for the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer to submit any written disagreement with the Records Examination Board's recommendations under paragraph (c) of this section, and ensure that appropriate corrective action is taken;
(2) Shall notify the Inspector General of his or her decision concerning an application for the correction of personnel records of a NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer who alleged reprisal for making or preparing or being perceived as making or preparing a protected communication at the time the Director issues a decision under paragraph (d)(1) of this section; and
(3) Shall take appropriate administrative disciplinary action against the individual or individuals found to have taken, withheld, or threatened a personnel action as reprisal if those individuals are under the Director's chain of command. If those individuals are not under the Director's chain of command, refer those individuals to the Deputy Under Secretary for Operations for appropriate administrative disciplinary action against the individual or individuals found to have taken, withheld, or threatened a personnel action in reprisal.
(e) The Deputy Under Secretary for Operations:
(1) Shall provide an additional level of review concerning an application for the correction of personnel records of a NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer within 90 days of the Director's decision if requested by the officer. If the Deputy Under Secretary for Operations fails to issue such a decision within that time, the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer shall be deemed to have exhausted their administrative remedies and the Director's decision constitutes the final agency action.
(2) Shall take appropriate administrative disciplinary action against the
individual or individuals found to have taken, withheld, or threatened a personnel action as reprisal if referred by the Director under paragraph (d) of this section.
§ 998.45
Procedures.
(a) Any NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer who reasonably believes a personnel action was taken, withheld, or threatened in reprisal for making or preparing or being perceived as making or preparing a protected communication may file a complaint with the Department of Commerce Office of Inspector General Hotline online at
https://www.oig.doc.gov/Pages/Hotline.aspx
by phone at (800) 424-5197, or by mail addressed to: United States Department of Commerce, Office of Inspector General, 1401 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230.
(b) The complaint should include relevant and specific details, including the name, address, and telephone number of the complainant; the name and location of the activity where the alleged violation occurred; the personnel action taken, withheld, or threatened that is alleged to be motivated by reprisal; the name(s) of the individual(s) believed to be responsible for the personnel action; the date when the alleged reprisal occurred; the date when the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer became aware of the personnel action; and any information that suggests or evidences a connection between the protected communication and reprisal. The complaint should also include a description of the protected communication, including a copy of any written communication and a brief summary of any oral communication showing the date of communication, the subject matter, and the name of the person or official to whom the communication was made. Where the complaint is submitted more than 1 year after the date when the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer became aware of the personnel action, the complainant should include an explanation of any circumstances which caused the complaint to be submitted more than 1 year after the complainant became aware of the personnel action. These circumstances may include descriptions of how the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer was actively misled regarding their rights, or was prevented from exercising their rights.
(c) A NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer who alleges reprisal for making or preparing or being perceived as making or preparing a protected communication may, within 20 days of receiving an investigation report, request in writing that the Director convene a Records Examination Board to consider an application for the correction of records.
(d) A NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer who disagrees with the recommendations of a Records Examination Board may submit in writing the reasons for disagreement to the Director within 20 days of receiving the Records Examination Board's recommendations.
(e) A NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer who disagrees with the Director's decision on a Records Examination Board's recommendations may request in writing a second level of review by the Deputy Under Secretary for Operations within 20 days of the Director's decision.

# Subpart E—Shore Leave

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 3079b.

# Source:
88 FR 48725, July 28, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 998.50
Applicability.
This subpart applies to professional mariners as defined in section 3079b(c) of title 33, United States Code, and in § 998.51, who are regularly assigned duties aboard a NOAA ship. An employee is considered to be regularly assigned when his or her continuing duties are such that all or a significant part of them require that he or she serve aboard a NOAA ship. Temporary assignments of a shore-based employee of the Administration, such as for limited work projects or for training, do not constitute a regular assignment. This subpart does not apply to commissioned officers of the NOAA Corps serving on NOAA ships.
§ 998.51
Definitions.
NOAA ship
means a research or survey vessel owned or operated by NOAA as part of the NOAA fleet defined at 33 U.S.C. 891(2), but does not mean a vessel owned or operated by NOAA under the jurisdiction of the NOAA Small Boat Program.
Professional mariner
means an individual employed by the Administration on a NOAA ship who has the necessary expertise to serve in the engineering, deck, steward, electronic technician, or survey departments.
Shore leave
means a leave of absence, in addition to earned annual leave, that is earned by professional mariners serving aboard NOAA ships, as authorized by section 3079b of title 33, United States Code, and this subpart.
§ 998.52
Computation of shore leave.
(a) A professional mariner earns shore leave at the rate of one day of shore leave for each 3 and one-half consecutive days of assignment to a NOAA ship such that a total of up to 4 days of shore leave may be earned in any given pay period.
(b) For a professional mariner, an assignment begins either on the date he or she assumes their duties aboard a NOAA ship or on the date he or she comes aboard when a voyage is in progress. The assignment terminates on the date he or she ceases to be assigned to a NOAA ship or on the date on which he or she is released from assignment of their duties.
(c) In computing days of assignment, the Administration shall also include:
(1) The days a professional mariner spends traveling to join a NOAA ship to which assigned;
(2) The days a professional mariner spends traveling between NOAA ships when the employee is assigned from one NOAA ship to another; and
(3) The days on which the professional mariner is on sick leave when he or she becomes sick during an assignment (whether or not continued as a member of the crew) but not beyond the termination date of the assignment to the NOAA ship.
(d) In computing days of assignment, the Administration shall not include days the professional mariner is on any kind of leave other than sick leave.
§ 998.53
Granting shore leave.
(a)
Authority.
(1) A professional mariner has an absolute right to use shore leave, subject to the right of the head of the agency to fix the time at which shore leave may be used.
(2) A professional mariner shall submit his or her request for shore leave in writing and whenever such a request for shore leave is denied, the denial shall be in writing.
(b)
Accumulation.
Shore leave for professional mariners may be accumulated for future use without limitation and is in addition to annual leave.
(c)
Charge for shore leave.
The minimum charge for shore leave is one day and additional charges are in multiples thereof.
(d)
Lump-sum payment.
Shore leave may not be the basis for lump-sum payment on separation from the Administration.
(e)
Terminal leave.
(1) Except as provided by paragraph (e)(2) of this section, NOAA shall not grant shore leave to a professional mariner as terminal leave. For the purpose of this paragraph terminal leave means an approved absence immediately before an employee's separation when an agency knows the employee will not return to duty before the date of his or her separation.
(2) NOAA shall grant shore leave as terminal leave when the professional mariner's inability to use shore leave was due to circumstances beyond his or her control and not due to his or her own act or omission.
(f)
Forfeiture of shore leave.
Shore leave not granted before:
(1) Separation from employment with the Administration, or
(2) Official assignment (other than by temporary detail) to a position within NOAA in which the employee does not earn shore leave, is forfeited. When an official assignment will result in forfeiture of shore leave, NOAA, to the extent administratively practicable shall give an employee an opportunity to use the shore leave he or she has to his or her credit either before the reassignment or not later than 6 months after the date of his reassignment when the agency is unable to grant the shore leave before the reassignment.
§ 998.54
Pay for temporary promotion.
Professional mariners serving in a position aboard a NOAA ship to which they have been temporarily promoted pursuant to 5 CFR 335.102(f) shall be paid the difference between their temporary and permanent rates of pay for leave accrued while serving in the temporary promotion position unless:
(a) The professional mariner uses the leave before returning to their permanent position; or
(b) The professional mariner is permanently promoted to the higher position without further competition.
15 CFR Ch. XI (1-1-25 Edition)
Nat'l Technical Info. Serv., Commerce

# CHAPTER XI—NATIONAL TECHNICAL INFORMATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Part
Page
1100-1109
[Reserved]
1110
Certification program for access to the Death Master File
497
1180
Transfer by Federal agencies of scientific, technical and engineering information to the National Technical Information Service
504
1181-1199
[Reserved]
PARTS 1100-1109 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1110

# PART 1110—CERTIFICATION PROGRAM FOR ACCESS TO THE DEATH MASTER FILE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1110.1
Description of rule; applicability.
1110.2
Definitions used in this part.

# Subpart B—Certification Program
1110.100
Scope term.
1110.101
Submission of certification; attestation.
1110.102
Certification.
1110.103
Disclosure to a certified person.
1110.104
Revocation of certification.
1110.105
Renewal of certification.

# Subpart C—Penalties and Audits
1110.200
Imposition of penalty.
1110.201
Audits.

# Subpart D—Administrative Appeal
1110.300
Appeal.

# Subpart E—Fees
1110.400
Fees.

# Subpart F—Accredited Conformity Assessment Bodies
1110.500
Accredited conformity assessment bodies.
1110.501
Independent.
1110.502
Firewalled.
1110.503
Attestation by accredited conformity assessment body.
1110.504
Acceptance of accredited conformity assessment bodies.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 113-67, Sec. 203.

# Source:
79 FR 16670, Mar. 26, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1110.1
Description of rule; applicability.
(a) The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (Pub. L. 113-67), Section 203, provides for the establishment of a fee-based certification program for persons who seek access to the Death Master File (DMF), and prohibits disclosure of DMF information for an individual during the three-calendar-year period following the individual's death, unless the person requesting the information has been certified.
(b) This part is applicable to any Person seeking access to a Limited Access DMF, as defined in this part.
§ 1110.2
Definitions used in this part.
The following definitions are applicable to this part:
Act.
The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (Pub. L. 113-67).
Accredited Conformity Assessment Body.
A third party conformity assessment body that is accredited by an accreditation body under nationally or internationally recognized criteria such as, but not limited to, International Organization for Standardization (ISO)/International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 27006-2011, “Information technology—Security techniques—Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of information security management systems,” to attest that a Person or Certified Person has systems, facilities and procedures in place to safeguard Limited Access DMF.
Certified Person.
A Person who has been certified under the certification program established under this part and is eligible to access the Limited Access DMF.
DMF.
Death Master File.
Death Master File.
Information on the name, social security account number, date of birth, and date of death of deceased individuals maintained by the Commissioner of Social Security, other than information that was provided to such Commissioner under section 205(r) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(r)).
Limited Access DMF.
The DMF product made available by NTIS which includes DMF with respect to any deceased individual at any time during the three-calendar-year period beginning on the date of the individual's death. As used in this part, Limited Access DMF does not include an individual element of information (name, social security number, date of birth, or date of death) in the possession of a Person, whether or not certified, but obtained by such Person through a source independent of the Limited Access DMF. If a Person obtains, or a third party subsequently provides to
such Person, death information (
i.e.,
the name, social security account number, date of birth, or date of death) independently, such information in the possession of such Person is not part of the Limited Access DMF or subject to this part.
NTIS.
The National Technical Information Service, United States Department of Commerce.
Open Access DMF.
The DMF product made available by NTIS which does not include DMF with respect to any deceased individual at any time during the three-calendar-year period beginning on the date of the individual's death.
Person.
Includes corporations, companies, associations, firms, partnerships, societies, joint stock companies, and other private organizations, and state and local government departments and agencies, as well as individuals.
[79 FR 16670, Mar. 26, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 34891, June 1, 2016]

# Subpart B—Certification Program
§ 1110.100
Scope term.
(a) Any Person desiring access to the Limited Access DMF must certify in accordance with this part. Upon acceptance of a Person's certification by NTIS, such Person will be a Certified Person, will be entered into the publicly available list of Certified Persons maintained by NTIS, and will be eligible to access the Limited Access DMF made available by NTIS through subscription.
(b) Certification under this part is not required for any Person to access the Open Access DMF made available by NTIS; however, a Certified Person may also access the Open Access DMF.
§ 1110.101
Submission of certification; attestation.
(a) In order to become certified under the certification program established under this part, a Person must submit a completed certification statement and any required documentation, using the most current version of the Limited Access Death Master File Subscriber Certification Form, and its accompanying instructions at
https://dmf.ntis.gov,
together with the required fee.
(b) In addition to the requirements under paragraph (a) of this section, in order to become certified, a Person must submit a written attestation from an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body that such Person has systems, facilities, and procedures in place as required under § 1110.102(a)(2). Such attestation must be based on the Accredited Conformity Assessment Body's review or assessment conducted no more than three years prior to the date of submission of the Person's completed certification statement, but such review or assessment need not have been conducted specifically or solely for the purpose of submission under this part.
[81 FR 34891, June 1, 2016]
§ 1110.102
Certification.
In order to be certified to be eligible to access the Limited Access DMF under the certification program established under this part, a Person shall certify, in the manner set forth in this part and pursuant to section 1001 of title 18, United States Code, that
(a) Such Person's access to the Limited Access DMF is appropriate because:
(1) Such Person has a legitimate fraud prevention interest, or has a legitimate business purpose pursuant to a law, governmental rule, regulation, or fiduciary duty, and shall specify the basis for so certifying;
(2) Such Person has systems, facilities, and procedures in place to safeguard the accessed information, and experience in maintaining the confidentiality, security, and appropriate use of accessed information, pursuant to requirements reasonably similar to the requirements of section 6103(p)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(3) Such Person agrees to satisfy such similar requirements; and
(4) Such Person shall not, with respect to Limited Access DMF of any deceased individual:
(i) Disclose such deceased individual's Limited Access DMF to any person other than a person who meets the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section;
(ii) Disclose such deceased individual's Limited Access DMF to any person who uses the information for any
purpose other than a legitimate fraud prevention interest or a legitimate business purpose pursuant to a law, governmental rule, regulation, or fiduciary duty;
(iii) Disclose such deceased individual's Limited Access DMF to any person who further discloses the information to any person other than a person who meets the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section; or
(iv) Use any such deceased individual's Limited Access DMF for any purpose other than a legitimate fraud prevention interest or a legitimate business purpose pursuant to a law, governmental rule, regulation, or fiduciary duty.
(b) The certification required in this section shall state whether such Person intends to disclose such deceased individual's DMF to any person, and if so, shall state the manner of such disclosure and how such Person will ensure compliance with paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
[79 FR 16670, Mar. 26, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 34892, June 1, 2016]
§ 1110.103
Disclosure to a certified person.
Disclosure by a Person certified under this part of Limited Access DMF to another Person certified under this part shall be deemed to satisfy the disclosing Person's obligation to ensure compliance with § 1110.102(a)(4)(i) through (iii).
[81 FR 34892, June 1, 2016]
§ 1110.104
Revocation of certification.
False certification as to any element of § 1110.102(a)(1) through (4) shall be grounds for revocation of certification, in addition to any other penalties at law. A Person properly certified who thereafter becomes aware that the Person no longer satisfies one or more elements of § 1110.102(a) shall promptly inform NTIS thereof in writing.
[81 FR 34892, June 1, 2016]
§ 1110.105
Renewal of certification.
(a) A Certified Person may renew its certification status by submitting, on or before the date of expiration of the term of its certification, a completed certification statement in accordance with § 1110.101, together with the required fee, indicating on the form NTIS FM161 that it is a renewal, and also indicating whether or not there has been any change in any basis previously relied upon for certification.
(b) Except as may otherwise be required by NTIS, where a Certified Person seeking certification status renewal has, within a three-year period preceding submission under paragraph (a) of this section, previously submitted a written attestation under § 1110.101(b), or has within such period been subject to a satisfactory audit under § 1110.201, such Certified Person shall so indicate on the form NTIS FM161, and shall not be required to submit a written attestation under § 1110.101(b).
(c) A Certified Person who submits a certification statement, attestation (if required) and fee pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall continue in Certified Person status pending notification of renewal or non-renewal from NTIS.
(d) A Person who is a Certified Person before November 28, 2016 shall be considered a Certified Person under this part, and shall continue in Certified Person status until the date which is one year from the date of acceptance of such Person's certification by NTIS under the Temporary Certification Program, provided that if such expiration date falls on a weekend or a federal holiday, the term of certification shall be considered to extend to the next business day.
[81 FR 34892, June 1, 2016]

# Subpart C—Penalties and Audits
§ 1110.200
Imposition of penalty.
(a)
General.
(1) Any Person certified under this part who receives Limited Access DMF, and who:
(i) Discloses Limited Access DMF to any person other than a person who meets the requirements of § 1110.102(a)(1) through (3);
(ii) Discloses Limited Access DMF to any person who uses the Limited Access DMF for any purpose other than a legitimate fraud prevention interest or a legitimate business purpose pursuant
to a law, governmental rule, regulation, or fiduciary duty;
(iii) Discloses Limited Access DMF to any person who further discloses the Limited Access DMF to any person other than a person who meets the requirements of § 1110.102(a)(1) through (3); or
(iv) Uses any such Limited Access DMF for any purpose other than a legitimate fraud prevention interest or a legitimate business purpose pursuant to a law, governmental rule, regulation, or fiduciary duty; and
(2) Any Person to whom such Limited Access DMF is disclosed, whether or not such Person is certified under this part, who further discloses or uses such Limited Access DMF as described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, shall pay to the General Fund of the United States Department of the Treasury a penalty of $1,000 for each such disclosure or use, and, if such Person is certified, shall be subject to having such Person's certification revoked.
(b)
Limitation on penalty.
The total amount of the penalty imposed under this part on any Person for any calendar year shall not exceed $250,000, unless such Person's disclosure or use is determined to be willful or intentional. For the purposes of this part, a disclosure or use is willful when it is a “voluntary, intentional violation of a known legal duty.”
(c)
Disclosure to a Certified Person.
No penalty shall be imposed under paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section on a first Certified Person who discloses, to a second Certified Person, Limited Access DMF, where the sole basis for imposition of penalty on such first Certified Person is that such second Certified Person has been determined to be subject to penalty under this part.
[81 FR 34892, June 1, 2016]
§ 1110.201
Audits.
Any Person certified under this part shall, as a condition of certification, agree to be subject to audit by NTIS, or, at the request of NTIS, by an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body, to determine the compliance by such Person with the requirements of this part. NTIS may conduct, or request that an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body conduct, periodic scheduled and unscheduled audits of the systems, facilities, and procedures of any Certified Person relating to such Certified Person's access to, and use and distribution of, the Limited Access DMF. NTIS may conduct, or request that an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body conduct, field audits (during regular business hours) or desk audits of a Certified Person. Failure of a Certified Person to submit to or cooperate fully with NTIS, or with an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body acting pursuant to this section, in its conduct of an audit, or to pay an audit fee to NTIS, will be grounds for revocation of certification.
[81 FR 24893, June 1, 2016]

# Subpart D—Administrative Appeal

# Source:
81 FR 34893, June 1. 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1110.300
Appeal.
(a)
General.
Any Person adversely affected or aggrieved by reason of NTIS denying or revoking such Person's certification under this part, or imposing upon such Person under this part a penalty, may obtain review by filing, within 30 days (or such longer period as the Director of NTIS may, for good cause shown in writing, fix in any case) after receiving notice of such denial, revocation or imposition, an administrative appeal to the Director of NTIS.
(b)
Form of appeal.
An appeal shall be submitted in writing to Director, National Technical Information Service, at NTIS's current mailing address as found on its Web site:
www.ntis.gov.,
ATTENTION DMF APPEAL, and shall include the following:
(1) The name, street address, email address and telephone number of the Person seeking review;
(2) A copy of the notice of denial or revocation of certification, or the imposition of penalty, from which appeal is taken;
(3) A statement of arguments, together with any supporting facts or information, concerning the basis upon
which the denial or revocation of certification, or the imposition of penalty, should be reversed;
(4) A request for hearing of oral argument before the Director, if desired.
(c)
Power of attorney.
A Person may, but need not, retain an attorney to represent such Person in an appeal. A Person shall designate any such attorney by submitting to the Director of NTIS a written power of attorney.
(d)
Hearing.
If requested in the appeal, a date will be set for hearing of oral argument before a representative of the Director of NTIS, by the Person or the Person's designated attorney, and a representative of NTIS familiar with the notice from which appeal has been taken. Unless it shall be otherwise ordered before the hearing begins, oral argument will be limited to thirty minutes for each side. A Person need not retain an attorney or request an oral hearing to secure full consideration of the facts and the Person's arguments.
(e)
Decision.
After a hearing on the appeal, if a hearing was requested, the Director of NTIS shall issue a decision on the matter within 120 days, or, if no hearing was requested, within 90 days of receiving the appeal. The decision of the Director of NTIS shall be made after consideration of the arguments and statements of fact and information in the Person's appeal, and the hearing of oral argument if a hearing was requested, but the Director of NTIS at his or her discretion and with due respect for the rights and convenience of the Person and the agency, may call for further statements on specific questions of fact or may request additional evidence in the form of affidavits on specific facts in dispute. After the original decision is issued, an appellant shall have 30 days (or a date as may be set by the Director of NTIS before the original period expires) from the date of the decision to request a reconsideration of the matter. The Director's decision becomes final 30 days after being issued, if no request for reconsideration is filed, or on the date of final disposition of a decision on a petition for reconsideration.

# Subpart E—Fees

# Source:
79 FR 16670, Mar. 26, 2016, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 81 FR 34893, June 1, 2016.
§ 1110.400
Fees.
Fees sufficient to cover (but not to exceed) all costs to NTIS associated with evaluating Certification Forms and auditing, inspecting, and monitoring certified persons under the certification program established under this part, as well as appeals, will be published (as periodically reevaluated and updated by NTIS) and available at
https://dmf.ntis.gov.
NTIS will not set fees for attestations or audits by an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body.

# Subpart F—Accredited Conformity Assessment Bodies

# Source:
81 FR 34893, June 1. 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1110.500
Accredited conformity assessment bodies.
This subpart describes Accredited Conformity Assessment Bodies and their accreditation for third party attestation and auditing of the information safeguarding requirement for certification of Persons under this part. NTIS will accept an attestation or audit of a Person or Certified Person from an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body that is:
(a) Independent of that Person or Certified Person; or
(b) Is firewalled from that Person or Certified Person, and that in either instance is itself accredited by a nationally or internationally recognized accreditation body.
§ 1110.501
Independent.
(a) An Accredited Conformity Assessment Body that is an independent third party conformity assessment body is one that is not owned, managed, or controlled by a Person or Certified Person that is the subject of attestation or audit by the Accredited Conformity Assessment Body.
(1) A Person or Certified Person is considered to own, manage, or control
a third party conformity assessment body if any one of the following characteristics applies:
(i) The Person or Certified Person holds a 10 percent or greater ownership interest, whether direct or indirect, in the third party conformity assessment body. Indirect ownership interest is calculated by successive multiplication of the ownership percentages for each link in the ownership chain;
(ii) The third party conformity assessment body and the Person or Certified Person are owned by a common “parent” entity;
(iii) The Person or Certified Person has the ability to appoint a majority of the third party conformity assessment body's senior internal governing body (such as, but not limited to, a board of directors), the ability to appoint the presiding official (such as, but not limited to, the chair or president) of the third party conformity assessment body's senior internal governing body, and/or the ability to hire, dismiss, or set the compensation level for third party conformity assessment body personnel; or
(iv) The third party conformity assessment body is under a contract to the Person or Certified Person that explicitly limits the services the third party conformity assessment body may perform for other customers and/or explicitly limits which or how many other entities may also be customers of the third party conformity assessment body.
(2) A state or local government office of Inspector General or Auditor General and a Person or Certified Person that is a department or agency of the same state or local government, respectively, are not considered to be owned by a common “parent” entity under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1110.502
Firewalled.
(a) A third party conformity assessment body must apply to NTIS for firewalled status if it is owned, managed, or controlled by a Person or Certified Person that is the subject of attestation or audit by the Accredited Conformity Assessment Body, applying the characteristics set forth under § 1110.501(a)(1).
(b) The application for firewalled status of a third party conformity assessment body under paragraph (a) of this section will be accepted by NTIS where NTIS finds that:
(1) Acceptance of the third party conformity assessment body for firewalled status would provide equal or greater assurance that the Person or Certified Person has information security systems, facilities, and procedures in place to protect the security of the Limited Access DMF than would the Person's or Certified Person's use of an independent third party third party conformity assessment body; and
(2) The third party conformity assessment body has established procedures to ensure that:
(i) Its attestations and audits are protected from undue influence by the Person or Certified Person that is the subject of attestation or audit by the Accredited Conformity Assessment Body, or by any other interested party;
(ii) NTIS is notified promptly of any attempt by the Person or Certified Person that is the subject of attestation or audit by the third party conformity assessment body, or by any other interested party, to hide or exert undue influence over an attestation, assessment or audit; and
(iii) Allegations of undue influence may be reported confidentially to NTIS. To the extent permitted by Federal law, NTIS will undertake to protect the confidentiality of witnesses reporting allegations of undue influence.
(c) NTIS will review each application and may contact the third party conformity assessment body with questions or to request submission of missing information, and will communicate its decision on each application in writing to the applicant, which may be by electronic mail.
§ 1110.503
Attestation by accredited conformity assessment body.
(a) In any attestation or audit of a Person or Certified Person that will be submitted to NTIS under this part, an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body must attest that it is independent of that Person or Certified
Person. The Accredited Conformity Assessment Body also must attest that it has read, understood, and agrees to the regulations in this part. The Accredited Conformity Assessment Body must also attest that it is accredited to a nationally or internationally recognized standard such as the ISO/IEC Standard 27006-2011 “Information technology—Security techniques—Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of information security management systems,” or any other similar nationally or internationally recognized standard for bodies providing audit and certification of information security management systems. The Accredited Conformity Assessment Body must also attest that the scope of its accreditation encompasses the safeguarding and security requirements as set forth in this part.
(b) Where a Person seeks certification, or where a Certified Person seeks renewal of certification or is audited under this part, an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body may provide written attestation that such Person or Certified Person has systems, facilities, and procedures in place as required under § 1110.102(a)(2). Such attestation must be based on the Accredited Conformity Assessment Body's review or assessment conducted no more than three years prior to the date of submission of the Person's or Certified Person's completed certification statement, and, if an audit of a Certified Person by an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body is required by NTIS, no more than three years prior to the date upon which NTIS notifies the Certified Person of NTIS's requirement for audit, but such review or assessment or audit need not have been conducted specifically or solely for the purpose of submission under this part.
(c) Where review or assessment or audit by an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body was not conducted specifically or solely for the purpose of submission under this part, the written attestation or assessment report (if an audit) shall describe the nature of that review or assessment or audit, and the Accredited Conformity Assessment Body shall attest that on the basis of such review or assessment or audit, the Person or Certified Person has systems, facilities, and procedures in place as required under § 1110.102(a)(2).
(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, NTIS may, in its sole discretion, require that review or assessment or audit by an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body be conducted specifically or solely for the purpose of submission under this part.
§ 1110.504
Acceptance of accredited conformity assessment bodies.
(a) NTIS will accept written attestations and assessment reports from an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body that attests, to the satisfaction of NTIS, as provided in § 1110.503.
(b) NTIS may decline to accept written attestations or assessment reports from an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body, whether or not it has attested as provided in § 1110.503, for any of the following reasons:
(1) When it is in the public interest under Section 203 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, and notwithstanding any other provision of this part;
(2) Submission of false or misleading information concerning a material fact(s) in an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body's attestation under § 1110.503;
(3) Knowing submission of false or misleading information concerning a material fact(s) in an attestation or assessment report by an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body of a Person or Certified Person;
(4) Failure of an Accredited Conformity Assessment Body to cooperate in response to a request from NTIS to verify the accuracy, veracity, and/or completeness of information received in connection with an attestation under § 1110.503 or an attestation or assessment report by that Body of a Person or Certified Person. An Accredited Conformity Assessment Body “fails to cooperate” when it does not respond to NTIS inquiries or requests, or it responds in a manner that is unresponsive, evasive, deceptive, or substantially incomplete; or
(5) Where NTIS is unable for any reason to verify the accuracy of the Accredited Conformity Assessment Body's attestation.
Pt. 1180

# PART 1180—TRANSFER BY FEDERAL AGENCIES OF SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL AND ENGINEERING INFORMATION TO THE NATIONAL TECHNICAL INFORMATION SERVICE
Sec.
1180.1
Purpose and scope.
1180.2
Definitions.
1180.3
General rule.
1180.4
Preparing a product for transfer.
1180.5
Timeliness.
1180.6
Production of additional copies.
1180.7
Exceptions.
1180.8
Appointment of Agency Liaison Officers.
1180.9
Affiliates.
1180.10
NTIS permanent repository.
1180.11
Relation to other laws and procedures.
Appendix to Part 1180—Sample Funding Agreement Clause for Direct Submission of Products

# Authority:
Sec. 108 of Pub. L. 102-245, 106 Stat. 7 (15 U.S.C. 3704b-2).

# Source:
59 FR 10, Jan. 3, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1180.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this regulation is to facilitate public access to the vast amount of scientific, technical and engineering information (STEI) that is produced by and for federal agencies.
(b) This regulation provides a variety of methods for federal agencies to adopt to ensure the timely transfer to the National Technical Information Service (NTIS) of all unclassified STEI that is available for public dissemination and that results from federal funding. It is issued pursuant to the authority contained in Section 108 of the American Technology Preeminence Act (Pub. L. 102-245).
§ 1180.2
Definitions.
Agency
means a federal agency as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980, as amended (15 U.S.C. 3703(8));
Director
means the Director of the National Technical Information Service.
Federally funded
refers to STEI which results from federal research and development activities funded in whole or in part with federal funds, whether performed by the agency itself or by contractors, grantees, cooperative research partners, joint venture partners, or under any similar arrangement involving federal funds.
Final
when used to describe an STEI product means a product that the originating agency or contractor/grantee thereof intends for public dissemination and may exclude interim status reports routinely furnished to agencies by contractors and grantees for monitoring and other internal purposes and which are not intended for public dissemination.
Product
includes, but is not limited to, any report, manual, standard, specification, book, paper, chart, map, graph, data collection, data file, data compilation, software, audio/video production, technology application assessment generated pursuant to Section 11(c) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710(c)), as well as materials pertaining to training technology and other federally owned or originated technologies, and applies to items produced in-house or outside the agency through the Government Printing Office, its contractors, Federal Prison Industries or any other producer, provided that such material is intended by the agency for public dissemination.
Scientific, technical and engineering information
means—
(1) Basic and applied research that results from the efforts of scientists and engineers in any medium (including new theory and information obtained from experimentation, observation, instrumentation or computation in the form of text, numeric data or images), and
(2) Information that bears on business and industry generally, such as economic information, market information and related information, if the agency determines such information would be of value to consumers of the information described in paragraph (1) of this definition.
Summary
means information relating to an ongoing research project likely to result in a final product.
§ 1180.3
General rule.
Unless an exception applies under section 1180.7, each federal agency shall, within the time period specified in this regulation, transfer to NTIS—
(a) At least one copy of every final STEI product resulting from the agency's federally funded research and development activities, and
(b) A summary of the agency's new and on-going research that is likely to result in a final STEI product
if such final product or summary is unclassified and is intended by the agency for public dissemination.
§ 1180.4
Preparing a product for transfer.
(a) Every final STEI product or summary shall, to the extent practicable, be prepared in a format that is consistent with one of the various formats found in NTIS guidelines. In addition, every such product shall—
(1) Be accompanied by a report documentation page (SF 298) or its electronic equivalent;
(2) Be in a form capable of high quality reproduction appropriate to the medium;
(3) In the case of software, be accompanied by relevant documentation, such as operating manuals, but not including printed source code; and
(4) In the case of a product not printed by the Government Printing Office, be accompanied by a statement as to whether the product has been made available for depository distribution by the Government Printing Office.
(b) Each federal agency shall transfer or have transferred to NTIS those STEI products funded by it that are protected by copyright only if there is a license reserved to the Government. In such cases, the agency shall inform NTIS of the terms of the license. Suggested language for inclusion in agency funding instruments is contained in the Appendix to this part.
(c) If an agency has generated or funded an STEI product which should be available for public dissemination but has embedded within it any copyrighted material, the designated liaison appointed pursuant to § 1180.8 should work with NTIS to determine if it would be appropriate to seek a license from the copyright holder in order to make the STEI product available.
§ 1180.5
Timeliness.
A single copy of a final product or summary described in § 1180.3 must be transferred to NTIS within fifteen days of the date it is first made available for public dissemination through any distribution channel, and, whenever practical, as soon as it has been approved by the agency for final printing or other reproduction, unless the agency and the Director have otherwise agreed.
§ 1180.6
Production of additional copies.
Unless the agency determines that such action would not be feasible, it shall make appropriate arrangements to enable NTIS, from time to time and at NTIS's own discretion and expense, to ride agency printing and other reproduction orders.
§ 1180.7
Exceptions.
(a) An agency shall not be required to take any further action to submit a copy of a final STEI product to NTIS or one of its affiliates if—
(1) It has designated NTIS to receive a single copy of each STEI product once it has been produced, has made the arrangements specified in § 1180.6, if appropriate, and has made arrangements to receive appropriate certification from a contractor, grantee or other external performer of federally funded research that a copy has been sent to NTIS or one of its affiliates within the appropriate time period pursuant to obligations incurred in the applicable funding agreement (see Appendix to this part) or pursuant to such other system as the agency has established to ensure timely transfer;
(2) The agency and the Director have executed an appropriate agreement or memorandum of understanding establishing an alternative system for compliance; or
(3) The federally funded STEI is protected by copyright for which no license has been reserved to the Government that would allow distribution by NTIS;
(4) The product is an agency generated article that is published in a privately produced journal; or
(5) The agency and the Director, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, have agreed that the transfer of a product otherwise covered by these regulations would not be appropriate.
(b) An agency and the Director shall be deemed to be in agreement within the meaning of paragraph (a)(3) of this section if the Director has not objected within 30 days to an agency's written notification of its determination that timely transfer of a product or category of products would not be appropriate under section 108 of the American Technology Preeminence Act. Examples of inappropriate transfers include:
(1) Transfers that could cause significant harm to an agency's existing dissemination program that is operating on a cost recovery basis, is operating in compliance with the policies described by OMB Circular A-130, and for which special arrangements that would permit supplemental distribution by NTIS cannot be negotiated.
(2) Federally funded STEI that has received, or is likely to receive, widespread distribution to most potential users at no charge.
§ 1180.8
Appointment of Agency Liaison Officers.
The head of each agency shall appoint or designate an officer or employee to serve as the STEI Liaison. The Liaison shall, to the extent authorized by the head of the agency—
(1) In cooperation with the Director, determine what products or summaries produced by the Government shall be transferred to NTIS on an ongoing basis;
(2) Determine which funding agreements are to require contractors and grantees to submit products directly to NTIS (for which purpose the Appendix to this part contains suggested language that agencies may wish to include in applicable funding instruments);
(3) Appoint additional liaison officers for major units or components of an agency if the Director and Liaison officer agree this would further the purposes of this regulation; and
(4) Enter into appropriate agreements with the Director and perform any other agency responsibilities described in this regulation.
§ 1180.9
Affiliates.
(a) The Director may recognize any federal agency or component of an agency as an affiliate for the purpose of receiving, on behalf of NTIS, any STEI product that is required to be transferred under these regulations if NTIS has entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Liaison Officer under which the recognized affiliate agrees to the ongoing transfer of all STEI products to NTIS in a timely manner and otherwise agrees to assume the role of an affiliate.
(b) A transfer by an agency to an approved affiliate shall be deemed a transfer to NTIS within the meaning of these regulations.
§ 1180.10
NTIS permanent repository.
A product, or category of product, will normally be accepted and maintained as part of NTIS' permanent repository as a service to agencies unless the Director advises the Liaison Officer that it has not been so accepted. In general, transferred products will not be accepted if they have not been properly prepared as required by Section 1180.4 or if NTIS believes that the cost of adding them to the repository will significantly exceed anticipated benefits to the public as measured by foreseeable demand. A product announced by NTIS as being available from NTIS shall be deemed to have been accepted by NTIS as part of its permanent repository.
§ 1180.11
Relation to other laws and procedures.
(a) Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to exempt an agency from any of the following requirements:
(1) Compliance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552);
(2) Compliance with any requirements to protect material that contains classified national security information;
(3) Compliance with requirements to protect personal or other information that may not be disclosed without appropriate authority under applicable
laws and procedures, such as the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a);
(4) Compliance with laws and regulations applicable to federal records under Title 44 of the United States Code or regulations issued by the National Archives and Records Administration (36 CFR, chapter XII);
(5) Compliance with requirements to distribute publications through the Depository Library Program either directly or through NTIS as prescribed in subsection (d) of this section; and
(6) In the case of an agency that is also a component of an agency as that term is defined in § 1180.2, compliance with all applicable requirements and procedures of the parent agency regarding these regulations.
(b) Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to require an agency to take any of the following actions:
(1) To use NTIS as an agency's exclusive distribution channel;
(2) To transfer to NTIS information on matters that are specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and are in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive Order; or
(3) to transfer, produce, or disseminate any other information that is required by law to be withheld, which the agency is authorized to withhold, or which is not intended by the agency for public dissemination.
(c) No contractor, grantee, or employee of a Federal agency shall submit a final STEI product directly to NTIS unless authorized to do so by the Liaison or the Liaison's designate, which authorization may be provided in an approved funding agreement (see Appendix to this part).
(d) In order to facilitate cooperation between agencies and the Depository Libraries—
(1) NTIS will, as soon as possible, but not later than six months from the effective date of these regulations, provide each Depository Library at no charge, online access to a current list of all final STEI products provided to NTIS under these regulations that have been entered into the NTIS system.
(2) The online system described in subsection (d) of this section will include an option that will allow each Depository Library thirty days from the date a product is added to the online listing to identify a product that it wishes to receive and that has not otherwise been made available to it.
(3) NTIS will accumulate these requests and, within a reasonable time, transfer them to the originating agency for fulfillment of each of the identified products.
(4) In lieu of the procedures described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, NTIS will offer to enter into simple cost recovery arrangements with the originating agency to duplicate and ship the identified products to the requesting Libraries in the format that the agency determines to be most cost effective, including microfiche, paper, diskette, or disc.
(5) NTIS will also establish, as soon as practical, a system of full text online access to final STEI products for the Depository Libraries at no charge to them. Those final STEI products provided to NTIS in a format prescribed by NTIS as suitable for online dissemination under this system will be made available to the Libraries at no charge to the originating agency, will be maintained online indefinitely, and will be available to the Libraries without regard to the thirty day selection time limit described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(6) The services in this paragraph will be provided to Depository Libraries on the condition that they agree to ensure that online access to the NTIS listing described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is restricted to the Library and its staff and that the full text products provided online pursuant to paragraph (d)(5) of this section are available only to the community served by that Library.
Pt. 1180, App.

# Appendix to Part 1180—Sample Funding Agreement Clause for Direct Submission of Products
Agencies electing to allow for their contractors, grantees, etc. to submit final products directly to NTIS are encouraged to employ a provision similar to the following in the applicable funding agreement:
“The (contractor)/(recipient) shall certify to the (contracting) (grants) officer—
“(1) a copy of all scientific, technical and engineering information products created or finalized in whole or in part with the funds requested has been or will be transferred to NTIS or a recognized affiliate (at the same time that it is provided to the sponsoring agency) (when the agency has determined that the product is approved for public dissemination) but no later than fifteen days after it is first made available for public dissemination through any other distribution channel, and
“(2) NTIS, or a recognized affiliate, has been advised as to whether the product is protected by copyright and, if so, a copy of the terms of any licenses reserved to the Government has been sent to NTIS, along with a copy of the SF 298.”
PARTS 1181-1199 [RESERVED]
15 CFR Ch. XIII (1-1-25 Edition)
East-West Foreign Trade Board

# CHAPTER XIII—EAST-WEST FOREIGN TRADE BOARD
Part
Page
1300
Reports on exports of technology.
511
1301-1399
[Reserved]
Pt. 1300

# PART 1300—REPORTS ON EXPORTS OF TECHNOLOGY
§ 1300.1
Reporting of exports of technology to nonmarket economy countries.
(a) For purposes of complying with the reporting requirements of section 411 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2441) relating to the export of technology to a nonmarket economy country, exporters of such technology shall be deemed to have complied with the requirements of such section by complying with the applicable provisions of the export control regulations of the Department of Commerce (15 CFR 368.1 through 399.2) issued pursuant to the Export Administration Act of 1969, as amended, (50 U.S.C. App. 2401 through 2413).
(b) Nonmarket Economy Country. For purposes of section 411(b) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2441) the term “nonmarket economy country” includes those countries included in Country Groups Q, W, Y, and Z of the export control regulations of the Department of Commerce (15 CFR Part 370 (Supplement 1)).
(Sec. 411, Pub. L. 93-618, 88 Stat. 2065 (19 U.S.C. 2441); E.O. 11846 (40 FR 14291))
[40 FR 29534, July 14, 1975]
PARTS 1301-1399 [RESERVED]
15 CFR Ch. XIV (1-1-25 Edition)
Minority Business Development Agency

# CHAPTER XIV—MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
Part
Page
1400
Determination of group eligibility for MBDA assistance
515
1401-1499
[Reserved]
Pt. 1400

# PART 1400—DETERMINATION OF GROUP ELIGIBILITY FOR MBDA ASSISTANCE
Sec.
1400.1
Purpose and scope.
1400.2
Definitions.
1400.3
Request for determination.
1400.4
Evidence of social or economic disadvantage.
1400.5
Decision.
1400.6
Construction.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1512, E.O. 11625, 3 CFR 616 (1971-75), 36 FR 19967 (1971); and E.O. 12432, 3 CFR 198 (1983), 48 FR 32551 (1983).

# Source:
49 FR 42698, Oct. 24, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1400.1
Purpose and scope.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 101467, Dec. 16, 2024.
(a) The purpose of this part is to set forth regulations for determination of group eligibility for MBDA assistance.
(b) In order to be eligible to receive assistance from MBDA funded organizations, a concern must be a minority business enterprise. A minority business enterprise is a business enterprise that is owned or controlled by one or more socially or economically disadvantaged persons. Executive Order 11625 designates Blacks, Puerto-Ricans, Spanish-speaking Americans, American Indians, Eskimos, and Aleuts as persons who are socially or economically disadvantaged and thus eligible for MBDA assistance. Other groups designated are listed below in paragraph (c). The purpose of this regulation is to provide guidance to groups not previously designated as eligible for assistance who believe they are entitled to formal designation as “socially or economically disadvantage” under the Executive Order. Upon adequate showing by representatives of the group that the group is, as a whole, socially or economically disadvantaged the group will be so designated and its members will be eligible for MBDA assistance. Designation under Executive Order 11625 establishes eligibility status only for MBDA funded programs. It will not establish eligibility for any other Federal or Federally funded program.
(c) In addition to those listed in E.O. 11625, members of the following groups have been designated as eligible to receive assistance: Hasidic Jews, Asian Pacific Americans, and Asian Indians.
§ 1400.1, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 101467, Dec. 16, 2024, § 1400.1 was revised and republished, effective Jan. 15, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1400.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this part is to set forth regulations for determination of group eligibility for MBDA assistance.
(b) In order to be eligible to receive assistance from MBDA funded organizations, a concern must be a minority business enterprise as defined in 15 U.S.C. 9501(9). The purpose of this regulation is to provide guidance to groups not previously designated as eligible for assistance who believe they are entitled to formal designation as “socially or economically disadvantaged.” Upon adequate showing by representatives of the group that the group is, as a whole, socially or economically disadvantaged, the group will be so designated and its members will be eligible for MBDA assistance. Designation under this regulation will not establish eligibility for any other Federal or Federally funded program.
§ 1400.2
Definitions.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 101467, Dec. 16, 2024.
For the purpose of this part:
(a) Minority business enterprise means a business which is owned or controlled by one or more socially or economically disadvantaged persons.
(b) Socially disadvantaged persons means those persons who have been subjected to cultural, racial or ethnic prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities.
(c) Economically disadvantaged persons means those persons whose ability to compete in the free enterprise system has been impaired due to diminished capital and credit opportunities because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities, as compared to others in the same line of business and competitive market area.
(d) Person means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
§ 1400.2, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 101467, Dec. 16, 2024,in § 1400.2, paragraph (a) was revised, effective Jan. 15, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1400.2
Definitions.
(a) Minority business enterprise is defined in 15 U.S.C. 9501(9).
§ 1400.3
Request for determination.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 101467, Dec. 16, 2024.
A group wishing to apply for designation as socially or economically disadvantaged under Executive Order 11625 shall submit a written application to the Director of the Minority Business Development Agency, United States Department of Commerce, Washington, DC, 20230, containing the following information:
(a)
Statement of request:
a brief statement clearly indicating that the applicant seeks formal recognition as socially or economically disadvantaged.
(b)
Description of applicants:
a detailed sociological, ethnic and/or racial description, as appropriate, of the group they represent which indicates that the group and the traits of its members are sufficiently distinctive to warrant a determination of social or economic disadvantage.
(c)
Summary of the applicant's submission:
a brief summary of their Submission.
(d)
Presentation of argument:
a narrative description of the documentation in support of their claim of social or economic disadvantage.
(Applicants should support their claim of social or economic disadvantage with the criteria described under 1400.4 “Evidence of Social or Economic Disadvantage”)
(e)
Conclusion:
summary of applicant's arguments in support of the claims of social or economic disadvantage.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0640-0011)

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 101467, Dec. 16, 2024, § 1400.3 was amended by:
a. Removing “Executive Order 11625” and adding in its place “this part” in the introductory text; and
b. Designating the parenthetical following paragraph (d) as note 1 to paragraph (d) and removing the parentheses, effective Jan. 15, 2025.
§ 1400.4
Evidence of social or economic disadvantage.
(a) The representatives of the group requesting formal designation should establish social or economic disadvantage by a preponderance of the evidence. Social or economic disadvantage must be chronic, long standing, and substantial, not fleeting or insignificant. In determining whether a group has made an adequate showing that it has suffered chronic racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias for the purposes of this regulation, a determination will be made as to whether this group has suffered the effects of discriminatory practices over which its members have no control. Applicants must demonstrate that such social or economic conditions have produced impediments in the business world for members of the group which are not common to all business people in the same or similar business and market place.
(b) Evidence which will be considered in determining whether groups are socially or economically disadvantaged includes but is not limited to:
(1) Statistical profile outlining the national income level and standard of living enjoyed by members of the group in comparison to the income level and standard of living enjoyed by individuals not considered to be members of socially or economically disadvantaged groups.
(2) Evidence of employment discrimination suffered by members of the group in comparison to employment opportunities available to individuals not considered to be members of socially or economically disadvantaged groups.
(3) Evidence of educational discrimination in comparison to educational opportunities available to individuals not considered to be members of socially or economically disadvantaged groups.
(4) Evidence of denial of access to organizations, groups, or professional societies, whether in business or in school, based solely upon racial and/or ethnic considerations.
(5) Kinds of businesses and business opportunities available to group members in comparison to the kinds of businesses and business opportunities
available to individuals not considered to be members of socially or economically disadvantaged groups.
(6) Availability of capital to group members in comparison to the availability of capital to individuals not considered to be members of socially or economically disadvantaged groups.
(7) Availability of technical and managerial resources to group members in comparison to the technical and managerial resources available to individuals not considered to be members of socially or economically disadvantaged groups.
(8) Any other evidence of denial of opportunity or access to those things which would enable the individual to participate more successfully in the American economic system, available to individuals not considered to be members of social or economically disadvantaged groups.
§ 1400.5
Decision.
(a)
Procedure.
After receipt of an application requesting formal designation as a socially or economically disadvantaged group, the Department of Commerce will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
that formal designation of this group will be considered. This notice will request comment from the public on the propriety of such a designation. The Department may gather additional information which supports or refutes the group's request. Any member of the public, including Government representatives, may submit information in written form. It is the responsibility of the applicant, however, to submit all relevant information which it wishes considered in its request for a determination of group eligibility.
(b)
Decision.
A decision will be made within 180 days of the receipt of the request. The decision will be published in the
Federal Register.
Applicants will also be informed in writing.
(c)
Appeal.
All questions of eligibility and procedural requirements shall be resolved by the Director, MBDA whose decision shall be final. An applicant may appeal this decision to the Secretary of Commerce. Applicants requesting an appeal should provide any information discovered subsequent to the Director's initial decision which would further their claim. The right to appeal shall be granted at the absolute discretion of the Secretary.
§ 1400.6
Construction.
Nothing in this regulation shall be construed as subjecting any functions vested in, or assigned pursuant to law to any Federal department or agency or head thereof to the authority of any other agency or office exclusively, or as abrogating or restricting such functions in any manner.
PARTS 1401-1499 [RESERVED]
15 CFR Ch. XV (1-1-25 Edition)
Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs

# CHAPTER XV—OFFICE OF THE UNDER-SECRETARY FOR ECONOMIC AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Part
Page
1500
Concrete masonry research, education, and promotion
521
1501-1599
[Reserved]
Pt. 1500

# PART 1500—CONCRETE MASONRY RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND PROMOTION

# Subpart A—Concrete Masonry Products Research, Education, and Promotion Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1500.0
Order.
1500.1
Act.
1500.2
Block machine.
1500.3
Board.
1500.4
Cavity.
1500.5
Concrete masonry products.
1500.6
Concrete masonry unit.
1500.7
Conflict of interest.
1500.8
Department.
1500.9
Dry-cast concrete.
1500.10
Education.
1500.11
Geographic regions.
1500.12
Machine cavities.
1500.13
Machine cavities in operation.
1500.14
Manufacturer.
1500.15
Masonry unit.
1500.16
[Reserved]
1500.17
Person.
1500.18
Promotion.
1500.19
Research.
1500.20
Secretary.
1500.21
United States.

# Concrete Masonry Products Board
1500.40
Establishment and membership.
1500.41
Nominations and appointments.
1500.42
Term of office.
1500.43
Vacancies.
1500.44
Disqualification.
1500.45
Procedure.
1500.46
Compensation and reimbursement.
1500.47
Powers and duties.
1500.48
Prohibited activities.

# Expenses and Assessments
1500.50
Budget and expenses.
1500.51
Assessments.
1500.60
Programs and projects.
1500.61
Independent evaluation.
1500.62
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1500.70
Reports.
1500.71
Books and records.
1500.72
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1500.80
Right of the Secretary.
1500.81
Referenda.
1500.82
Suspension or termination.
1500.83
Effect of termination or amendment.
1500.84
Notice and advance registration.
1500.85
Personal liability.
1500.86
Separability.
1500.87
Amendments.
1500.88
OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
1500.100
General.
1500.101
Definitions.
1500.102
Voting.
1500.103
Instructions.
1500.104
Agents.
1500.105
Ballots.
1500.106
Referendum report.
1500.107
Confidential information.
1500.108
OMB control number.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 8701-8717.

# Source:
86 FR 23276, May 3, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Concrete Masonry Products Research, Education, and Promotion Order

# Source:
86 FR 51478, Sept. 15, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1500.0
Order.
Order
means this subpart A, Concrete Masonry Products Research, Education, and Promotion Order.
§ 1500.1
Act.
Act
means the Concrete Masonry Products Research, Education, and Promotion Act of 2018 (15 U.S.C. 8701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 115-254, section 1301, 132 Stat. 3469-3485 (2018)), and any amendments thereto.
§ 1500.2
Block machine.
Block machine
means a piece of equipment that utilizes vibration and compaction to form concrete masonry products.
§ 1500.3
Board.
Board
means the “Concrete Masonry Products Board” established under § 1500.40 of this Order.
§ 1500.4
Cavity.
Cavity
means the open space in the mold of a block machine capable of forming a single concrete masonry unit having nominal plan dimensions of 8 inches by 16 inches.
§ 1500.5
Concrete masonry products.
Concrete masonry products
means a broader class of products, including concrete masonry units as well as hardscape products such as concrete pavers and segmental retaining wall units, manufactured on a block machine using dry-cast concrete.
§ 1500.6
Concrete masonry unit.
Concrete masonry unit
means a concrete masonry product that is a manmade masonry unit having an actual width of 3 inches or greater and manufactured from dry-cast concrete using a block machine. Such term includes concrete block and related concrete units used in masonry applications.
§ 1500.7
Conflict of interest.
Conflict of interest
means with respect to a member or employee of the Board, a situation in which such member or employee has a direct or indirect financial or other interest in a person that performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, for anything of economic value.
§ 1500.8
Department.
Department
means the United States Department of Commerce.
§ 1500.9
Dry-cast concrete.
Dry-cast concrete
means a composite material that is composed essentially of aggregates embedded in a binding medium composed of a mixture of cementitious materials (including hydraulic cement, pozzolans, or other cementitious materials) and water of such a consistency to maintain its shape after forming in a block machine.
§ 1500.10
Education.
Education
means programs that will educate or communicate the benefits of concrete masonry products in safe and environmentally sustainable development, advancements in concrete masonry product technology and development, and other information and programs designed to generate increased demand for commercial, residential, multi-family, and institutional projects using concrete masonry products and to generally enhance the image of concrete masonry products.
§ 1500.11
Geographic regions.
Geographic Regions
means the groupings of states as delineated in this Order (at § 1500.40(c)), for the purpose of supporting research, education, and promotion plans and projects.
§ 1500.12
Machine cavities.
Machine cavities
means the cavities with which a block machine could be equipped.
§ 1500.13
Machine cavities in operation.
Machine cavities in operation
means those machine cavities associated with a block machine that have produced concrete masonry units within the last six months of the date set for determining eligibility and is fully operable and capable of producing concrete masonry units.
§ 1500.14
Manufacturer.
Manufacturer
means any person engaged in the manufacturing of commercial concrete masonry products in the United States.
§ 1500.15
Masonry unit.
Masonry unit
means a noncombustible building product intended to be laid by hand or joined using mortar, grout, surface bonding, post-tensioning or some combination of these methods.
§ 1500.16
[Reserved]
§ 1500.17
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative or any other entity.
§ 1500.18
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action, including paid advertising, to advance the image and desirability of concrete masonry products with the express intent of improving the competitive position and stimulating sales of concrete masonry products in the marketplace.
§ 1500.19
Research.
Research
means studies testing the effectiveness of market development
and promotion efforts, studies relating to the improvement of concrete masonry products and new product development, and studies documenting the performance of concrete masonry.
§ 1500.20
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the United States Department of Commerce.
§ 1500.21
United States.
United States
means the several States and the District of Columbia.

# Concrete Masonry Products Board
§ 1500.40
Establishment and membership.
(a) The Board is hereby established to carry out a program of generic promotion, research, and education regarding concrete masonry products. The Board shall consist of manufacturers and of not fewer than 15 and not more than 25 members appointed by the Secretary, from nominations submitted as set forth in § 1500.41. No employee of an industry trade organization exempt from tax under paragraph (3) or (6) of section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 representing the concrete masonry industry or related industries shall serve as a member of the Board and no member of the Board may serve concurrently as an officer of the board of directors of a national concrete masonry products industry trade association.
(b) The initial Board and all subsequent Boards, unless modified by the Board as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, shall be subject to the following:
(1) To ensure fair and equitable representation of the concrete masonry products industry, the composition of the Board shall reflect the geographical distribution of the manufacture of concrete masonry products in the United States, the types of concrete masonry products manufactured, and the range in size of manufacturers in the United States.
(2) No company or its affiliates shall have more than two members on the Board.
(c) To the extent possible, dependent on the nominees submitted, the Secretary will strive to appoint at least two members from each region. Similarly, the Secretary will strive to appoint at least one member from each of the following districts:
ER15SE21.007
(d) Three years after the assessment of concrete masonry units commences pursuant to implementation of this Order, and at the end of each three-year period thereafter, the Board, subject to the review and approval of the Secretary, shall, if warranted, recommend to the Secretary the reapportionment of the Board membership to reflect changes in the geographical distribution of the manufacture of concrete masonry products and the types of concrete masonry products manufactured. Additionally, at any time, the Board may make recommendations to the Secretary to modify the composition of the regions and districts set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
§ 1500.41
Nominations and appointments.
(a) For the initial Board, nominations shall be made and submitted to the Secretary by manufacturers. The Secretary shall consider the nominations submitted and other manufacturers for appointment, as the Secretary may deem appropriate. The Secretary
shall appoint the members and alternate members of the initial Board.
(b) From the nominations, the Secretary shall appoint the 15-25 members of the Board and 6 alternate members of the Board within a reasonable time after receiving nominations. If a voting member vacates the appointment, the Secretary will appoint one of the alternate members to fill the unexpired term. The Secretary will provide the Board an opportunity to offer a nominee as successor to fill the term of the alternate member. In any case in which the Board fails to submit nominations for any open position, the Secretary shall appoint a member qualifying for the position under the criteria set forth in § 1500.40.
(c) As terms expire or vacancies occur among members and alternate members, nominations and those interested in being considered for Board membership, including self-nominations, may submit such nominations to the Board. For each expired or vacant position, the Board will evaluate the nominations received, verify the willingness of nominees to serve, and then will submit to the Secretary at least three nominees for each such position. The Secretary may also receive nominations and may forward them to the Board for their consideration. The Secretary is not bound by the recommendations of the Board; in selecting members, the Secretary will consider the recommendations of the Board, individual expertise, distribution of appointments, and more expansive input from sources available to the Secretary. For the initial Board, from the list of nominees not selected for appointment, the Secretary will choose and appoint six alternate members for the Board. Alternate members will be non-voting members of the Board.
§ 1500.42
Term of office.
(a) Board members and any alternates will serve for a term of three years, except for the initial members as described below. Board members and any alternates will be able to serve a maximum of two consecutive three-year terms and may serve additional terms, of up to two consecutive three-year terms, after rotating off the Board. When the Board is first established, the initial members will be assigned initial terms of two, three and four years. Initial terms will be staggered to assure continuity. Each term of office will end on December 31, with new terms of office beginning on January 1. Members serving the initial terms of two and three years will be eligible to serve a second term of three years.
(b) Thereafter, each of the positions will carry a full three-year term. Notwithstanding the limitations on consecutive terms, a Board member or alternate Board member may continue to serve until a successor is appointed by the Secretary.
§ 1500.43
Vacancies.
Should any Board member position become vacant, an alternate will be appointed by the Secretary for the remainder of the term. Successors to fill the unexpired terms of the former alternate member shall be appointed in the manner specified in § 1500.41.
§ 1500.44
Disqualification.
(a) In the event that any Board member or alternate Board member who was appointed as a manufacturer ceases to qualify as a manufacturer, such Board member or alternate Board member shall be disqualified from serving on the Board. The replacement may be at the Secretary's initiative or the Board may recommend to the Secretary that the member be removed.
(b) If a member of the Board consistently refuses to perform the duties of a member of the Board, or if a member of the Board engages in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Board may recommend to the Secretary that the member be removed from office.
(c) All members serve at the pleasure of the Secretary.
§ 1500.45
Procedure.
(a) The Board will meet at least annually. A Board meeting will be conducted only when a quorum is present. A majority of the Board members will constitute a quorum. If participation by telephone or other means is permitted, members participating by such means shall count as present in determining quorum or other voting requirements set forth in this section.
(b) At the start of each fiscal period, the Board will select a Chair, Vice- Chair, Secretary-Treasurer and other officers as appropriate who will serve in leadership roles throughout that period.
(c) The Board will provide members and manufacturers a minimum of 14 days advance notice of all Board meetings.
(d) Each Board member will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to vote, and the motion will carry if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the total votes represented by the Board members participating, with the exception of the affirmative vote of two-thirds of voting members required to change the assessment rate as specified in § 1500.51(c).
(e) The Board may form committees as necessary. Committees may consist of individuals other than Board members. Committee members shall serve without compensation.
(f) When the Board Chair determines that a vote outside a convened Board meeting is necessary, such vote may take place via electronic means only if members are given fourteen days prior notice, and if a majority of the voting Board members participate prior to the established deadline. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a regularly convened meeting of the Board.
(g) All votes shall be recorded in Board minutes.
(h) There shall be no voting by proxy.
(i) Board members shall each have one vote. Alternate members shall not vote. The Chair and all Board officers shall be elected from voting members of the Board.
(j) The organization of the Board and the procedures for the conducting of meetings of the Board shall be in accordance with its bylaws, which shall be established by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
(k) Meetings of the Board and committees may be conducted by electronic communications, provided that each member and committee member, if such committee member is not a member of the Board, is given prior written notice of the meeting and has the opportunity to be present either physically or by electronic connection.
§ 1500.46
Compensation and reimbursement.
(a) Members and any alternates of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(b) If approved by the Board, members or alternates shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, which may include per diem allowance or actual subsistence incurred while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Board.
§ 1500.47
Powers and duties.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To administer this Order in accordance with its terms and conditions and to collect assessments;
(b) To develop and recommend to the Secretary for approval such bylaws as may be necessary for the functioning of the Board;
(c) To make such rules as may be necessary to administer this Order, including activities to be carried out under this Order;
(d) To meet, organize, and select from among the members of the Board a Chair, Vice Chair, Secretary-Treasurer and other officers, committees, and subcommittees, and to vest in such committees and subcommittees such responsibilities and authorities as the Board determines to be appropriate;
(e) To establish regional committees to administer regional initiatives;
(f) To recommend to the Secretary modifications to the geographical regions as described in § 1500.40(c);
(g) To establish working committees of persons other than Board members;
(h) To employ persons, other than the members, as the Board considers necessary to assist the Board in carrying out its duties and to determine the compensation and specify the duties of such persons;
(i) To prepare and submit for the approval of the Secretary a budget as described in § 1500.50(a);
(j) To borrow funds necessary for the startup expenses of this Order;
(k) To develop and carry out generic research, education, and promotion
programs and projects relating to concrete masonry products, and to pay the costs of such programs and projects with assessments collected under § 1500.51 and other income of the Board as provided under §§ 1500.50(j) and 1500.62;
(l) To enter into contracts or agreements which must be approved by the Secretary before becoming effective, for the development and carrying out of programs or projects of research, education, and promotion relating to concrete masonry products, including with manufacturer associations or other entities as considered appropriate by the Secretary;
(m) To develop programs and projects, and enter into contracts or agreements related thereto, which must be approved by the Secretary before becoming effective, targeted specifically toward the Geographic Regions described in § 1500.40(c) to be recommended by the relevant regional committees for marketing and research projects to benefit manufacturers in such Geographic Regions pursuant to the goals of any programs or projects as set forth under this Order. The contracts or agreements related to such programs and projects as described in this § 1500.46(m) shall be subject to the requirements of all contracts or agreements described in § 1500.46(l);
(n) To keep minutes, books, and records that reflect the actions and transactions of the Board, and promptly report minutes of each Board meeting to the Secretary;
(o) To maintain such records and books and prepare and submit such reports and records from time to time to the Secretary as the Secretary may prescribe and to make the records available to the Secretary for inspection and audit; to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it; and to keep records that accurately reflect the actions and transactions of the Board;
(p) At the end of each fiscal year and at such other times as the Secretary may request, to have the books and records audited by an independent auditor and submit a report of the audit directly to the Secretary;
(q) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board and committees as is given to members, including committee members if committee members are not members of the Board, in order that the Secretary's representative(s) may attend such meetings, and to keep and report minutes of each meeting of the Board and all committees to the Secretary;
(r) To furnish to the Secretary any information or records that the Secretary may request;
(s) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary all complaints of violations of this Order;
(t) To recommend to the Secretary such amendments to this Order as the Board considers appropriate;
(u) To recommend adjustments to the assessments as provided in this Order;
(v) To notify manufacturers of all Board meetings through press releases or other means;
(w) To invest assessments collected under this Order in accordance with § 1500.50; and
(x) To periodically prepare and make available to the public and manufacturers reports of its activities and, at least once each fiscal period, to make public an accounting of funds received and expended.
§ 1500.48
Prohibited activities.
(a) The Board shall not engage in any program or project to, nor shall any funds received by the Board under the Act be used to:
(1) Influence legislation, elections, or governmental action;
(2) Engage in an action that would be a conflict of interest;
(3) Engage in advertising that is false or misleading;
(4) Engage in any research, education, or promotion that would be disparaging to other construction materials; or
(5) Engage in any promotion or project that would benefit any individual manufacturer.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not preclude:
(1) The development and recommendation of amendments to the Order;
(2) The communication to appropriate government officials of information relating to the conduct, implementation, or results of research, education, and promotion activities under the Order except communications described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or
(3) Any lawful action designed to market concrete masonry products directly to a foreign government or political subdivision of a foreign government.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1500.50
Budget and expenses.
(a) Prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, and during the fiscal year as may be necessary, the Board shall prepare and submit to the Secretary for approval a budget for the fiscal year covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this Order, including the probable cost of each promotion, research, and education activity proposed to be developed or carried out by the Board and a section that annotates and explains any shortcomings, overruns, and shift of funds from the previous year's budget. Such budget shall be deemed approved if the Secretary fails to approve or reject the budget within 60 days of receipt, unless the Secretary proposes to the Board and to Congress, reasonable justification for the delay and provides a reasonable date by which approval or disapproval will be made. The Department may provide such justification in any written format.
(b) In addition to paragraph (a) of this section, each such budget shall include:
(1) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project, with a comparative for the preceding year—annotating the success and explaining the shortcomings of the preceding year's programs, plans, and projects
(2) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data for at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget);
(3) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan or project; and
(4) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget).
(c) Each budget shall provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures.
(d) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Secretary, including shifting funds from one program or project to another. A shift of funds from one approved category to another, and not exceeding 10% of the funds in either category, which does not cause an increase in the Board's approved budget and which is consistent with governing bylaws need not have prior approval by the Secretary. If the Secretary fails to approve or reject a budget, or an amendment or addition to an approved budget, within 60 days of receipt, such budget shall be deemed approved, unless the Secretary provides to the Board and to Congress, in writing, reasonable justification for the delay and provides a reasonable date by which approval or disapproval will be made. The Department may provide such justification in any written format.
(e) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this Order. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.
(f) Limitations on obligation of funds:
(1) In each fiscal year, through fiscal year 2030, the Board may not obligate an amount greater than the sum of—
(i) 73 percent of the amount of assessments estimated to be collected under § 1500.51 in such fiscal year);
(ii) 73 percent of the amount of assessments actually collected under § 1500.51 in the most recent fiscal year for which an audit report has been submitted as of the beginning of the fiscal year for which the amount that may be obligated is being determined, less the estimate made pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section for such most recent fiscal year; and
(iii) Amounts permitted in preceding fiscal years to be obligated that have not been obligated.
(iv) For fiscal years 9 and 10 (ending September 2028 and 2029) there is a special rule for estimates. Specifically, the amounts estimated to be collected shall be 62 percent of the amount of assessments actually collected in the most recent fiscal year for which an audit report has been submitted as of the beginning of the fiscal year for which the amount be obligated is being determined.
(2) Assessments collected in excess of the amount permitted to be obligated in a fiscal year shall be deposited in an escrow account until the end of the 11th fiscal year or September 2030.
(3) Prior to the end of the 11th fiscal year or September 30, 2030, the Board may not obligate, expend, or borrow against amounts deposited in the escrow account. Any interest earned on such amounts shall be deposited in the escrow account and shall be unavailable for obligation until the end of the 11th fiscal year or September 30, 2030.
(g) With approval of the Secretary, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any funds borrowed by the Board shall be expended only for startup costs and capital outlays.
(h) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for all expenses incurred by the Secretary in the implementation, administration and supervision of this Order, including all referendum costs in connection with this Order.
(i) Following the third fiscal year of operation of the Board, the total cost of collection of expenses and administrative staff incurred by the Board during any fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the projected total assessments to be collected and other income received by the Board for that fiscal year after any fees owed to the Department are paid. Reimbursements to the Secretary required under paragraph (g) of this section are excluded from this limitation on spending.
(j) Pending disbursement of assessments and all other revenue under a budget approved by the Secretary, the Board may invest assessments and all other revenues collected under this section in:
(1) Obligations of the United States or any agency of the United States;
(2) General obligations of any state or any political subdivision of a state;
(3) Interest bearing accounts or certificates of deposit of financial institutions that are members of the Federal Reserve System; or
(4) Obligations fully guaranteed as to principal interest by the United States.
(k) Investment income and revenue earned under paragraph (i) of this section are earnings obtained from assessments that are subject to budget approval under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 1500.51
Assessments.
(a) The collection of assessments on concrete masonry units will be the responsibility of the manufacturer who sells the concrete masonry units. There shall be an assessment on the first sale of concrete masonry units only and not on subsequent sales of concrete masonry units already assessed. The manufacturer will be required to collect and remit its individual assessments no less than quarterly. Manufacturers shall identify the total amount due in assessments on all sales receipts, invoices or other commercial documents of sale as a result of the sale of concrete masonry units. Within 180 days of their initial meeting, the Board will provide for review and approval by the Secretary a proposed evaluation and compliance program and its plan to evaluate program effectiveness and to verify compliance with the Act. The evaluation and compliance program will provide the method and metrics that will help determine program effectiveness and will outline the way the Board will receive assessments, how they will verify compliance, determine the best method to track sales, and how to document all actions including the process by which the Board will use to ensure it meets or exceeds the legislatively-mandated disbursement of received assessments.
(b) Such assessments shall be levied at a rate of $0.01 per concrete masonry unit sold by a manufacturer. The Board may make assessments effective as of
the effective date of this Order. Submission of funds may be made to the Board within 60 days of the end of the first quarter after the Board is established; thereafter submission of funds will be to the board within 60 days of the end of each quarter.
(c) At any time following the conduct of the initial referendum conducted pursuant to this Order, the assessment rate will be reviewed by the Board and, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of voting members of the Board, may be modified; provided that the assessment rate may be raised to a maximum of $0.05 cents per unit, that only one increase may be implemented in any one-year period, and each individual increase may not exceed $0.01
(d) Not less than 50 percent of the assessments (less administration expenses) paid by a manufacturer shall be used to support research, education, and promotion programs and projects in support of the Geographic Region of the manufacturer.
(e) All assessment payments and reports will be submitted to the Board quarterly. All quarterly payments are to be received no later than 60 days after the conclusion of each quarter. A late payment charge shall be imposed on any manufacturer who fails to remit to the Board the total amount for which any such manufacturer is liable on or before the due date established by the Board. In addition to the late payment charge, an interest charge shall be imposed on the outstanding amount for which the manufacturer is liable. The rate of interest and late payment charges shall be specified by the Secretary.
(f) Manufacturers failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under Federal debt collection procedures.
(g) The Board may authorize other organizations to collect assessments on its behalf with the approval of the Secretary.
(h) The Board shall provide manufacturers submitting assessments under this Order with the opportunity to apply for rebates on assessments remitted to the Board for concrete masonry units not covered by this Order and for assessments remitted to the Board for concrete masonry units sold to a purchaser that subsequently failed to remit payment due to bankruptcy, bad debt or other reasons causing the money intended to be collected from such sale to be uncollectible. Those requesting rebates in such circumstances must provide all necessary documentation as the Board shall determine.
§ 1500.60
Programs and projects.
(a) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop, and submit to the Secretary for approval any program or project authorized under this Order. Such programs or projects shall be consistent with the purpose of the Act (
see
15 U.S.C. 8701) and provide for:
(1) The establishment of annual research, education, and promotion objectives and metrics for each fiscal year. Objectives and performance metrics should consider and where possible reflect those listed in 15 U.S.C. 8716 (Study and report by the Government Accounting Office).
(2) The establishment, issuance, effectuation and administration of appropriate programs for research, education, and promotion with respect to concrete masonry products; and
(3) The establishment and conduct of research with respect to the image, desirability, use, marketability, quality or production of concrete masonry products, to the end that the marketing and use of concrete masonry products may be encouraged, expanded, improved or made more acceptable and to advance the image, desirability or quality of concrete masonry product.
(b) No program or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Secretary. Once a program or project is so approved, the Board shall take appropriate steps to implement it. If the Secretary fails to approve or reject a contract or agreement for a program or project within 60 days of receipt, the contract or agreement shall be deemed approved, unless the Secretary provides to the Board and to Congress, in writing, reasonable justification for the delay and provides a reasonable date by which approval or disapproval will be made. The Department may provide such justification in
any written format. Any such contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Board a program or project together with a budget or budgets that specifies the cost to be incurred to carry out the program or project;
(2) The contractor or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted, submit accounting for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Secretary or the Board may require;
(3) The Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically;
(4) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Board contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Board shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor; and
(5) The contract or agreement shall become effective on the approval of the Secretary.
(c) Each program or project implemented under this Order shall be reviewed or evaluated periodically by the Board to ensure that it contributes to an effective program of research, education, or promotion. If it is found by the Board that any such program or project does not contribute to an effective program of research, education, or promotion, then the Board shall, with the approval of the Secretary, terminate such program or project.
(d) Any educational or promotional activity undertaken with funds provided by the Board shall include a statement that such activities were supported in whole or in part by the Board.
(e) Every 2 years the Board shall prepare and make publicly available a comprehensive and detailed report that includes an identification and description of all programs and projects undertaken by the Board during the previous 2 years as well as those planned for the subsequent 2 years and detail the allocation or planned allocation of Board resources for each such program or project. Such report shall also include:
(1) The overall financial condition of the Board;
(2) A summary of the amounts obligated or expended during the 2 preceding fiscal years; and
(3) A description of the extent to which the objectives of the Board were met according to the metrics required under § 1500.50.
§ 1500.61
Independent evaluation.
The Board shall authorize and fund an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of this Order and other programs conducted by the Board beginning five years after October 5, 2018, and every 3 years thereafter. The Board shall submit to the Secretary, and make available to the public, the results of each periodic independent evaluation conducted under this paragraph.
§ 1500.62
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.
Ownership and allocation of rights to patents, copyrights, inventions, or publications, developed through the use of non-Federal funds remitted to the Board under the Order shall be determined by written agreement between the Board and the party(ies) receiving funds for the development of such inventions, patents, copyrights or publications.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1500.70
Reports.
(a) Each manufacturer subject to this Order may be required to provide to the Board periodically such information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, which may include but not be limited to the following:
(1) Number and type of concrete masonry units manufactured;
(2) Number and type of concrete masonry units on which an assessment was paid;
(3) Name and address of the manufacturer; and
(4) Date assessment was paid on each concrete masonry unit sold.
(b) All reports required under this section are due to the Board 60 days after the end of each quarter.
(c) All reports or information submitted pursuant to this paragraph shall be subject to the confidentiality restrictions in § 1500.72.
§ 1500.71
Books and records.
Each manufacturer subject to this Order shall maintain and make available for inspection by the Secretary such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this Order, including such records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Such records shall be retained for at least 7 years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability.
§ 1500.72
Confidential treatment.
(a) Trade secrets and commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act, this Order shall be kept confidential by all persons, including all employees and former employees of the Board, all officers and employees and former officers and employees of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be available to Board members or manufacturers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information to effectively administer the provisions of this Order shall have access to such information. Such information may be disclosed only if the Secretary considers the information relevant; and the information is revealed in a judicial proceeding or administrative hearing brought at the direction or on the request of the Secretary or to which the Secretary or any officer of the Department is a party. Any officer, employee, or agent of the Department of Commerce or any officer, employee, or agent of the Board who willfully violates this paragraph shall be fined not more than $1,000 and imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(1) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this Order or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(2) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this Order, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this Order violated by such person.
(b) For any officer, employee, or agent of the Department of Commerce, these provisions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter any obligations, rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or Executive order relating to classified information, communications to Congress, the reporting to an Inspector General of a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or any other whistleblower protection. The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by controlling Executive Orders and statutory provisions are incorporated into this Order and are controlling.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1500.80
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs or projects, rules or regulations, reports, or other actions proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1500.81
Referenda.
(a) A referendum will be held to determine whether manufacturers favor enactment of this Order. A manufacturer shall be considered eligible to vote if the manufacturer has manufactured concrete masonry products during a period of at least 180 days prior to the first day of the period during which voting in the referendum will occur. For the initial referendum, an eligible person is a manufacturer of concrete units that is subject to the initial rate of assessment in § 1500.51. Each manufacturer eligible to vote in the referendum shall be entitled to one vote. This Order became effective after approval by a majority of manufacturers voting who also represent a majority of the machine cavities in operation of those manufacturers voting in the referendum.
(b) After the initial referendum, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum upon the request of the Board, or effective beginning November 30, 2026, and at 5-year intervals thereafter, by petition from not less than 25% of manufacturers eligible to vote. Each manufacturer eligible to vote in subsequent referenda shall be entitled to one vote. The Order will remain in effect if approved by a majority of manufactures voting who also represent a majority of the machine cavities in operation of those manufacturers voting in the referendum.
(c) For any new proposed order, voter eligibility will be based on the scope of such proposed order. A future proposed Order becomes effective if approved by a majority of manufacturers voting and any other criteria established by the Secretary based on the scope of such future proposed order.
§ 1500.82
Suspension or termination.
(a) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate an order or a provision of an order if the Secretary finds that an order or provision of an order obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the purpose of the Act, or if the Secretary determines that the order or a provision of an order is not favored by a majority of all votes cast in the referendum as provided in § 1500.81. If the Secretary suspends or terminates a provision of an order, the order remains in effect minus the suspended or terminated provision.
(b) If, as a result of a referendum conducted under § 1500.81 of this Order, the Secretary determines that the Order is not approved, the Secretary shall:
(1) Not later than 180 days after making the determination, suspend or terminate collection of assessments under this Order; and
(2) As soon as practical, suspend or terminate activities under this order in an orderly manner.
§ 1500.83
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this Order, or the issuance of any amendment, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation or liability which shall have arisen, or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this Order;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this Order; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary or of any other persons, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1500.84
Notice and advance registration.
At least 30 days before a referendum is to be conducted under this Order, the Secretary shall notify all manufacturers of the period during which the referendum will occur through publication in the
Federal Register.
The notice shall explain any registration and voting procedures. A manufacturer who chooses to vote in any referendum conducted under this Order shall register with the Secretary prior to the voting period.
§ 1500.85
Personal liability.
No member or employee of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, when they exercise their discretionary duties of their office, in good faith, while acting within the scope of their authority, to any person for errors in judgment, either of commission or omission, as such member or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct
§ 1500.86
Separability.
If any provision of this Order is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this Order or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1500.87
Amendments.
The Secretary may, from time to time, amend an Order. Amendments to this Order may be proposed from time to time by the Board or by any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary. The provisions of the Act applicable to an order shall be applicable to any amendment to this Order.
§ 1500.88
OMB control number.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirement in this subpart by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.,
is OMB control number 0605-0028.

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 8706.
§ 1500.100
General.
Agents will conduct a referendum in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1500.101
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart:
(a)
Agent
means the Department of Commerce (Department) employee(s) the Secretary designates to conduct the referendum.
(b)
Eligible manufacturer
means any person who is currently a manufacturer of concrete masonry units and has manufactured a concrete masonry unit within 180 days of the referendum period.
(c)
Employer Identification Number
means the number generally issued to businesses by the U.S. Department of Treasury. An Employer Identification Number (EIN) is also known as a Federal Tax Identification Number and is used to identify a business entity. For more information on EINs and how to apply go to
https://www.irs.gov/businesses.
(d)
Lead Executive
means the individual or individuals the Secretary designates to oversee the conduct of the referendum and is a member of the Senior Executive Service.
(e)
Referendum period
means the period of time, not less than 30 days, that the Secretary or his agent determines appropriate for conducting the referendum.
(f)
Registration
means the form and process eligible manufacturers who wish to vote must complete and follow in order to vote. Voters must register by midnight of the day prior to the beginning of the referendum period.
§ 1500.102
Voting.
(a) Each eligible manufacturer shall be entitled to cast one vote.
(b) The order shall become effective only if the Secretary determines that the order has been approved by a majority of manufacturers voting who also represent a majority of the machine cavities in operation of those manufacturers voting in the referendum.
(c) In order to vote, a manufacturer must register by midnight of the day prior to the start of the referendum period.
(d) For referendum purposes the Department will use Employer Identification Numbers (EIN) to identify unique manufacturers.
(e) An officer or employee of an eligible manufacturer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of an eligible entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such entity provided that any individual so voting shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible entity, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of an eligible entity and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of an agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority. The Secretary does not authorize proxy voting.
(f) Voters are to cast ballots by the means specified by the Secretary, such means could include in person, mail-in, fax, via internet link, or through use of voting software. In the case of the initial referendum, the Department will use a combination of mail-in and fax to allow voters to cast ballots.
(g) If the Department requests, manufacturers shall provide proof of sales, proof of cavities in operation, or any other such proof the Department deems necessary to establish voting eligibility. Failure to provide the requested proof to the Department will result in ineligibility to participate in the referendum.
§ 1500.103
Instructions.
The agent(s) shall conduct the referendum, in the manner provided in this subpart, under the supervision of
the Secretary. The Secretary may prescribe additional instructions, consistent with the provisions of this subpart, to govern the procedure to be followed by the agent(s). Such agent(s) shall:
(a) Determine the period during which voters may cast ballots;
(b) Provide notification to allow interested voters to register in advance of the referendum period. The Department will restrict the information requested to that information needed to ensure eligibility of request or to participate in the referendum. Types of information will include name, contact information (address, phone number, email), status as a manufacturer of concrete masonry units, affirmation of having manufactured concrete masonry units within 180 days prior to the beginning of the referendum period, the number of machine cavities in operation, their Employer Identification Number, and similar identifying information;
(c) Provide ballots and related material to voters for use in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including information needed for ascertaining whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter. The Department will restrict the information requested to that information needed to determine a voter's eligibility. Information will include the name and address of the manufacturer, status as a manufacturer of concrete masonry units, affirmation that they have manufactured concrete masonry units within 180 days of the beginning of the referendum period, manufacturer Employer Identification Number, the number of machine cavities the manufacturer has in operation, and similar verification information;
(d) Give reasonable public notice of the referendum:
(1) By using available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to webinars and other such media vehicles; and
(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable;
(e) Send to eligible manufacturers whose names and addresses are known to the agent, the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the proposed order;
(f) At the end of the referendum period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of the Lead Executive authorized to monitor the referendum process;
(g) Prepare a report on the referendum; and
(h) Announce the results to the public.
§ 1500.104
Agents.
The Secretary may appoint agent(s) to conduct the referendum. Agent(s) may appoint any individual or individuals necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions under this subpart. The agent authorizes each individual so appointed to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1500.105
Ballots.
(a) The agent(s) shall accept all ballots cast. However, if an agent determines a need for additional review for any reason, the agent shall endorse above the voter's signature on the ballot with a statement to the effect that the ballot needs additional scrutiny. The agent will attach to the ballot information regarding the reasons for additional review, the results of any investigations made with respect to the review, and the final disposition of the review. Agents will not count ballots found to be invalid or late, a non-exhaustive list of examples include:
(1) The ballot is blank, missing a vote, has no signature;
(2) Both voting boxes are marked in the vote section;
(3) The ballot arrives after midnight of the last day of the referendum period;
(4) The ballot is in a state that agents cannot determine the vote; or
(5) The ballot has a name that is different on the ballot from that of the
registered voter, except for votes cast by power of attorney with sufficient documentation to prove such power of attorney.
(b) As stated in § 1500.102(e), the Secretary does not authorize proxy voting. However, agents will accept power of attorney votes with proper documentation.
§ 1500.106
Referendum report.
Unless otherwise directed, the Lead Executive shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a report on the results of the referendum, the manner in which the agent(s) conducted the referendum, the kind of public notice given, and other information the Lead Executive finds pertinent to the analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1500.107
Confidential information.
The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the vote of any person covered under the order and the voter list shall be strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed.
§ 1500.108
OMB control number.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirement in this subpart by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.,
is OMB control number 0605-0029.
PARTS 1501-1599 [RESERVED]

# Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
15 CFR Ch. XX (1-1-25 Edition)
Office of the United States Trade Representative

# CHAPTER XX—OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE
Part
Page
2000
[Reserved]
2001
Creation, organization, and functions
541
2002
Operation of committees
543
2003
Regulations of Trade Policy Staff Committee
546
2004
Disclosure of records and information
548
2006
Procedures for filing petitions for action under section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended
566
2007
Regulations of the U.S. Trade Representative pertaining to eligibility of articles and countries for the Generalized System of Preference Program (GSP (15 CFR Part 2007))
573
2008
[Reserved]
2009
Procedures for representations under section 422 of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979
579
2011
Allocation of tariff-rate quota on imported sugars, syrups and molasses
579
2012
Implementation of tariff-rate quotas for beef
586
2014
Implementation of tariff-rate quota for imports of lamb meat
586
2015
Implementation of tariff-rate quotas for sugar-containing products
587
2016
Procedures to petition for withdrawal or suspension of country eligibility or duty-free treatment under the Andean Trade Preference Act (ATPA), as amended
588
2017
Petition process to review eligibility of countries under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA)
590
2018-2099
[Reserved]
Appendix A to Chapter XX—Administration of the Trade Agreements Program
592
PART 2000 [RESERVED]
Pt. 2001

# PART 2001—CREATION, ORGANIZATION, AND FUNCTIONS
Sec.
2001.0
Scope and purpose.
2001.1
Creation and location.
2001.2
Organization.
2001.3
Functions.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 93-618, 88 Stat. 1978; 76 Stat. 902, 19 U.S.C. 1872, as amended; E.O. 11846 of March 27, 1975, 40 FR 14291, March 31, 1975.

# Source:
40 FR 18419, Apr. 28, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2001.0
Scope and purpose.
(a) This chapter sets out terms of reference of the Office of the United States Trade Representative (hereinafter the “Office”), and the procedures whereby it carries out its general responsibilities under the trade agreements program.
(b) One of the primary purposes of these regulations is to inform the public of the unit known as the Trade Policy Staff Committee, which replaces and assumes the functions formerly performed by The Trade Staff Committee and the Trade Information Committee. One of the functions of the Trade Policy Staff Committee is to afford an opportunity for interested parties to present oral and written statements concerning the trade agreements program and related matters.
§ 2001.1
Creation and location.
(a) The Office was established as an agency in the Executive Office of the President by Executive Order 11075 of January 15, 1963 (28 FR 473), as amended by Executive Order 11106 of April 18, 1963 (28 FR 3911), and Executive Order 11113 of June 13, 1963 (28 FR 6183). The Office subsequently was reestablished as an agency in the Executive Office of the President by section 141 of the Trade Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-618, 88 Stat. 1978, hereinafter referred to as the “Trade Act”), and was delegated certain functions under the Trade Act by Executive Order 11846 of March 27, 1975.
1
1
40 FR 14291, March 31, 1975.
(b) The Office is located at 1800 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20506.
§ 2001.2
Organization.
(a) The Office is headed by the United States Trade Representative (hereinafter, the “Trade Representative”) as provided in section 141(b)(1) of the Trade Act. The Trade Representative reports directly to the President and the Congress as described in § 2001.3(a)(2) of this part, and has the rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
(b) The Office also consists of two Deputy Trade Representatives (hereinafter “Deputy Trade Representatives”) as provided in section 141(b)(2) of the Trade Act, each of whom holds the rank of Ambassador, and of a professional and nonprofessional staff.
(c) The Trade Policy Committee, an interagency committee composed of the heads of specified Executive departments and offices, was established by section 3 of Executive Order 11846 (see Appendix), as authorized by section 242(a) of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
2
under the chairmanship of the United States Trade Representative, as provided by section 141(c)(1)(E) of the Trade Act. Two subordinate bodies of the Trade Policy Committee, the Trade Policy Committee Review Group, and the Trade Policy Staff Committee, provided for in §§ 2002.1 and 2002.2 respectively, are established by, and under the direction and administrative control of the Trade Representative.
2
76 Stat. 902, 19 U.S.C. 1872; Pub. L. 93-618, 88 Stat. 1978, section 602(b).
§ 2001.3
Functions.
(a) The Trade Representative:
(1) Except where otherwise provided by statute, Executive order, or instructions of the President, is the chief representative of the United States for each negotiation under the trade agreements program as defined in section 1 of Executive Order 11846, and participates in other negotiations which may have a direct and significant impact on trade;
(2) Reports directly to the President and the Congress, and is responsible to the President and the Congress, with
respect to the administration of the trade agreements program as defined in section 1 of Executive Order 11846;
(3) Advises the President and the Congress with respect to tariff and nontariff barriers to international trade, international commodity agreements, and other matters which are related to the trade agreements program;
(4) Performs the functions of the President under section 102 of the Trade Act concerning notice to, and consultation with, Congress, in connection with agreements on nontariff barriers to, and other distortions of, trade, and prepares for the President's transmission to Congress all proposed legislation and other documents necessary or appropriate for the implementation of, or otherwise required in connection with, trade agreements (except that where implementation of an agreement on nontariff barriers to, and other distortions of trade requires a change in a domestic law, the department or agency having the primary interest in the administration of such domestic law prepares and transmits to the Trade Representative any proposed legislation necessary for such implementation);
(5) Is responsible for making reports to Congress with respect to the matters set forth in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section and prepares, for the President's transmission to Congress, the annual report on the trade agreements program required by section 163(a) of the Trade Act ;
(6) Is chairman of the Trade Policy Committee, and designates the chairman of the Trade Policy Committee Review Group and the Trade Policy Staff Committee, which are provided for in part 2002 of these regulations;
(7) Is responsible for the preparation and submission of any Proclamation which relates wholly or primarily to the trade agreements program;
(8) Performs the functions of the President under section 131(c) of the Trade Act concerning requests for, and receipt of, advice from the International Trade Commission with respect to modifications of barriers to (and other distortions of) international trade;
(9) Performs the functions of the President under section 132 of the Trade Act with respect to advice of departments of the Federal government and other sources, and under section 133 of the Trade Act with respect to certain public hearings;
(10) Performs the functions of the President under section 135 of the Trade Act with respect to advisory committees, (including functions under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 86 Stat. 770, 5 U.S.C. App. 1, which are applicable to such committees, except that of reporting annually to Congress), and, acting through the Secretaries of Commerce, Labor, and Agriculture, as appropriate, performs the functions of the President in establishing and organizing general policy advisory committees and sector advisory committees under section 135(c) of the Trade Act;
(11) Determines ad valorem amounts and equivalents pursuant to sections 601 (3) and (4) of the Trade Act, taking into account advice from the International Trade Commission and in consultation with the Trade Policy Committee;
(12) Requests, where appropriate, information from the International Trade Commission in connection with import relief findings or actions under sections 202(d) and 203(i) (1) and (2) of the Trade Act;
(13) Acting through the Section 301 Committee provided for in § 2002.3 of this chapter as appropriate, provides opportunities for the presentation of views under sections 301(d) and 301(e) of the Trade Act, with respect to certain foreign restrictions, acts, practices or policies and United States actions in response thereto;
(14) At the request of a complainant, made in accordance with § 2003.3 of these regulations, under section 301(d)(2) of the Trade Act, or of an interested person under section 301(e)(2), provides for appropriate public hearings by the Trade Policy Staff Committee on alleged foreign restrictions, acts, policies, or practices under section 301(d)(2), and on any action by the United States with respect to the import treatment of any foreign product or the treatment of any foreign service under section 301(e)(2);
(15) Requests, where appropriate, the views of the International Trade Commission as to the probable impact on the economy of the United States of any action under section 301(a) of the Trade Act;
(16) Is responsible, in consultation with the Secretary of State, for the administration of the generalized system of preferences under Title V of the Trade Act;
(17) Is responsible for such other functions as the President may direct.
(b)(1) Each Deputy Trade Representative shall have as his principal function the conduct of trade negotiations under this Act, and shall have such other functions as the Trade Representative may direct;
(2) A Deputy Trade Representative, designated by the Trade Representative, is chairman of the Trade Policy Committee Review Group provided for in § 2002.1;
(3) A Deputy Trade Representative, designated by the Trade Representative, is chairman of the Adjustment Assistance Coordinating Committee established by section 281 of the Trade Act.
[40 FR 18419, Apr. 28, 1975, as amended at 40 FR 39497, Aug. 28, 1975]
Pt. 2002

# PART 2002—OPERATION OF COMMITTEES
Sec.
2002.0
Trade Policy Committee.
2002.1
Trade Policy Committee Review Group.
2002.2
Trade Policy Staff Committee.
2002.3
Section 301 Committee.
2002.4
Participation by other agencies.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 93-618, 88 Stat. 1978; 76 Stat. 902, 19 U.S.C. 1872, as amended; E.O. 11846 of March 27, 1975, 40 FR 14291, March 31, 1975.
§ 2002.0
Trade Policy Committee.
(a) The Trade Policy Committee was created by section 3 of Executive Order 11846 of March 27, 1975 (40 FR 14291, March 31, 1975), as authorized by section 242(a) of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1872), as amended by section 602(b) of the Trade Act.
(b) The Trade Policy Committee is composed of:
(1) The Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, Chairman;
(2) The Secretary of State;
(3) The Secretary of the Treasury;
(4) The Secretary of Defense;
(5) The Attorney General;
(6) The Secretary of the Interior;
(7) The Secretary of Agriculture;
(8) The Secretary of Commerce;
(9) The Secretary of Labor;
(10) The Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs;
(11) The Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy.
In addition, the Committee may invite the participation in its activities of any agency or office not listed above when matters of interest to such agency or office are under consideration.
(c) The Trade Policy Committee meets at such times and with respect to such functions as the President or the Chairman of the Committee directs. It has the functions conferred by the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, upon the interagency organization referred to in section 242 thereof, as amended, the functions delegated to it by the provisions of Executive Order 11846 (see Appendix), and such other functions as the President or the chairman may from time to time direct. Recommendations and advice of the Committee are submitted to the President by the chairman.
[40 FR 18420, Apr. 28, 1975]
§ 2002.1
Trade Policy Committee Review Group.
(a) The Trade Executive Committee, established by regulations appearing by 36 FR 23620, December 11, 1971 (15 CFR 2002.1), is abolished and there is hereby established as a subordinate body of the Trade Policy Committee the Trade Policy Committee Review Group (hereinafter referred to as the “Review Group”). The Review Group consists of a Deputy Trade Representative, designated by the Trade Representative, as chairman, and of high level officials designated from their respective agencies or offices by the Secretaries of Agriculture, Commerce, Defense, Interior, Labor, State and Treasury, and the Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy. The Special Representative or
the Deputy Special Representative, as appropriate, and each head of an agency or office, may designate from his respective agency or office high level officials to serve as alternate members of the Review Group in the event the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the Review Group.
(b) The Review Group performs the following functions unless such functions are assigned to a different body by the Special Representative or his designee:
(1) Coordinates interagency activities concerning the trade agreements program and related matters;
(2) Recommends policies and actions, and transmits appropriate materials, to the Special Representative concerning the trade agreements program and related matters, or, when appropriate, approves such policies and actions; and
(3) As appropriate, reviews and approves recommendations of the Trade Policy Staff Committee on policies and actions concerning any proposed trade agreements, the trade agreements program, and related matters.
(4) [Reserved]
(5) Performs such other functions as the Special Representative or a Deputy Special Representative may from time to time direct.
[40 FR 18420, Apr. 28, 1975, as amended at 40 FR 39497, Aug. 28, 1975; 40 FR 60042, Dec. 31, 1975; 42 FR 55611, Oct. 18, 1977]
§ 2002.2
Trade Policy Staff Committee.
(a) The Trade Staff Committee and the Trade Information Committee, established by regulations appearing at 36 FR 23620, December 11, 1971 (15 CFR 2002.2, and 2002.3, respectively) are abolished and there is hereby established as a subordinate body of the Trade Policy Committee and the Trade Policy Review Group the Trade Policy Staff Committee (hereinafter referred to as “the Committee”). The Committee consists of a chairman designated by the Special Representative from his Office, and of senior trade policy staff officials designated from their respective agencies or offices by the Secretaries of Agriculture, Commerce, Defense, Interior, Labor, State, and Treasury, by the Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy,” so that the sentence reads: The Committee consists of a chairman designated by the Special Representative from his Office, and of senior trade policy staff officials designated from their respective agencies or offices by the Secretaries of Agriculture, Commerce, Defense, Interior, Labor, State, and Treasury, by the Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy, and by the Chairman of the International Trade Commission. Each Secretary or head of an agency or office and the Chairman of the Commission may designate from his respective agency officials to serve as alternate members of the Committee in the event the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the Committee. The Special Representative may from time to time designate officials from his agency other than the chairman, to serve as acting chairmen of the Committee. The representative of the International Trade Commission shall be a nonvoting member of the Committee.
(b) The Committee performs the following functions unless such functions are assigned to a different body by the Special Representative or his designee:
(1) Monitors the trade agreements programs, reviews the information received pursuant to paragraphs (b) (2) through (8) of this section, and transmits summaries of such information together with recommendations of action to the Special Representative, or through him to the Trade Policy Review Group or the Trade Policy Committee, concerning the trade agreements program and related matters, or when appropriate approves such policies and actions.
(2) Obtains information and advice from the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Defense, Interior, Labor, State and the Treasury, from the Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, and from such other sources as the Special Representative, a Deputy Special Representative, or the Chairman of the Committee may deem appropriate concerning any proposed trade agreement and other aspects of the trade agreements program and related matters, and concerning the Generalized System of Preferences
in accordance with Title V of the Trade Act;
(3) Provides an opportunity, by the holding of public hearing and by such other means as the Special Representative, the Deputy Special Representative or the Chairman of the Committee deems appropriate, for interested persons to present their views concerning any article on a list published pursuant to section 131 of the Trade Act, any article which should be so listed, any concession which should be sought by the United States, or any other matter relevant to a proposed trade agreement;
(4) Provides an opportunity, by the holding of public hearings and by such other means as the Special Representative, a Deputy Special Representative, or the Chairman of the Committee deems appropriate, for any interested party to present by oral or written statement his views concerning articles being considered for designation as eligible articles for purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences;
(5) [Reserved]
(6) Provides an opportunity where deemed appropriate by the Special Representative, the Deputy Special Representative, or the Chairman, by the holding of public hearings upon request by an interested party, and by such other means as the Special Representative, the Deputy Special Representative or the Chairman deems appropriate, for any interested party to present an oral or written statement concerning any other aspect of the trade agreements program and related matters;
(7) Reviews all materials required to be furnished by the International Trade Commission to the President through the Special Representative, and transmits such materials, together, where appropriate with recommendations of action with respect thereto, to the Special Representative or a Deputy Special Representative.
(8) Reviews reports of hearings and reviews conducted by the section 301 Committee provided for in § 2002.3 and recommendations resulting therefrom, and makes recommendations to the Special Representative with respect thereto.
(9) When circumstances warrant, terminates section 301 reviews provided for in § 2002.3
(10) Receives and reviews requests pertaining to the duty-free treatment accorded to articles under the Generalized System of Preferences, and handles such requests and reviews in accordance with Part 2007 of these regulations;
(11) Issues regulations governing the conduct of its public hearings and the performance of such of its other functions as it deems necessary;
(12) Performs such other functions as the Special Representative or the Deputy Special Representative may from time to time direct.
[40 FR 18420, Apr. 28, 1975, as amended at 40 FR 39497, Aug. 28, 1975; 40 FR 60042, Dec. 31, 1975; 42 FR 55611, Oct. 18, 1977]
§ 2002.3
Section 301 Committee.
(a) There is hereby established, as a subordinate body of the Trade Policy Staff Committee, the Section 301 Committee. The Chairman of the Section 301 Committee shall be designated by the Deputy Special Representative from the Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations. The Committee shall consist of the Chairman and, with respect to each complaint, such members as may be designated by agencies which have an interest in the issues raised by the particular complaint and whose participation is invited by the Chairman of the Committee.
(b) The Section 301 Committee performs the following functions unless such functions are assigned to a different body by the Special Representative, or his designee:
(1) Reviews complaints received pursuant to section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974.
(2) Provides an opportunity by the holding of public hearings upon request by a complainant or an interested party, as appropriate, and by such other means as the Special Representative, a Deputy Special Representative or the Chairman of the section 301 Committee deems appropriate, for any interested party to present his views to the section 301 Committee concerning foreign restrictions, acts, policies, and practices affecting U.S. commerce, and
United States actions in response thereto, as provided for in section 301 of the Trade Act (Pub. L. 93-618, 88 Stat. 1978).
(3) Reports to the Trade Policy Staff Committee the results of reviews and hearings conducted with respect to complaints received pursuant to section 301 of the Trade Act.
(4) On the basis of its review of petitions filed under section 301 and of the views received through hearings or otherwise on such petitions, makes recommendations to the TPSC for review by that committee.
[40 FR 39497, Aug. 28, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 55611, Oct. 18, 1977]
§ 2002.4
Participation by other agencies.
The chairman of the Trade Policy Committee, the Trade Policy Committee Review Group, the Section 301 Committee, and the Trade Policy Staff Committee may invite the participation in the activities of their committees of any other agencies when matters of interest to such agencies are under consideration.
[40 FR 18420, Apr. 28, 1975. Redesignated and amended at 40 FR 39497, Aug. 28, 1975]
Pt. 2003

# PART 2003—REGULATIONS OF TRADE POLICY STAFF COMMITTEE
Sec.
2003.0
Office, mailing address, telephone number, and hours.
2003.1
Notice of public hearings.
2003.2
Testimony and submission of written briefs.
2003.3
[Reserved]
2003.4
Presentation of oral testimony at public hearings.
2003.5
Information open to public inspection.
2003.6
Information exempt from public inspection.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 93-618, 88 Stat. 1978; 76 Stat. 902, 19 U.S.C. 1872, as amended; E.O. 11846 of March 27, 1975, 40 FR 14291, March 31, 1975.

# Source:
40 FR 18421, Apr. 28, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2003.0
Office, mailing address, telephone number, and hours.
(a) The office of the Committee is at room 729, 1800 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20506.
(b) All communications to the Committee should be addressed to the “Secretary, Trade Policy Staff Committee, Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, room 729, 1800 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20506.”
(c) The telephone number of the office of the Committee is (202) 395-3395.
(d) The regular hours of the office of the Committee are from 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on each business day, Monday through Friday.
§ 2003.1
Notice of public hearings.
The Committee shall publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of a proposed public hearing, the subject matter of the proposed public hearing, the period during which written briefs may be submitted, the period during which requests may be submitted to present oral testimony, and the time and place of the proposed public hearing, in the following instances:
(a) Upon publication of lists of articles by the President under section 131(a), or sections 503(a) and 131(a), of the Trade Act as a result of which public hearings are required to be held by section 133 of the Trade Act with respect to any matter relevant to a proposed trade agreement, or with respect to any matter relevant to the granting of generalized tariff preferences for the listed articles;
(b) Whenever the Special Representative or the Deputy Special Representative determines that public hearings in connection with the review of a request submitted pursuant to Part 2007 of these regulations, pertaining to the duty-free treatment accorded to articles under the GSP, are in the public interest.
(c) Upon instructions of the Special Representative.
[40 FR 18421, Apr. 28, 1975, as amended at 40 FR 39498, Aug. 28, 1975; 40 FR 60042, Dec. 31, 1975]
§ 2003.2
Testimony and submission of written briefs.
(a) Participation by an interested party in a public hearing announced under § 2003.1 shall require the submission of a written brief before the close of the period announced, in the public notice for its submission. Such brief may be, but need not be, supplemented by the presentation of oral testimony in accordance with § 2003.4.
(b) A written brief by an interested party concerning any aspect of the trade agreements program or any related matter not subject to paragraph (a) of this section, and submitted pursuant to a public notice shall be submitted before the close of the period announced in the public notice for its submission.
(c) A written brief shall state clearly the position taken and shall describe with particularity the evidence supporting such position. It shall be submitted in not less than twenty (20) copies which shall be legibly typed, printed, or duplicated.
(d) In order to assure each party an opportunity to contest the information provided by other interested parties, the Committee will entertain rebuttal briefs filed by any party within a time limit specified by the Committee. Rebuttal briefs shall conform, in form and number, to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section. Rebuttal briefs should be strictly limited to demonstrating errors of fact or analysis not pointed out in the briefs or hearings and should be as concise as possible.
(e) A written brief by an interested party concerning any aspect of the Trade Agreements Program or any related matter not subject to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may be submitted at any time.
(f) The requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section may be waived by the Special Representative, the Deputy Special Representative, or the Chairman of the Committee for reasons of equity and the public interest.
[40 FR 18421, Apr. 28, 1975, as amended at 40 FR 39498, Aug. 28, 1975]
§ 2003.3
[Reserved]
§ 2003.4
Presentation of oral testimony at public hearings.
(a) A request by an interested party to present oral testimony at a public hearing shall be submitted in writing before the close of the period announced in the public notice for its submission, and shall state briefly the interest of the applicant and the position to be taken by the applicant. Such request will be granted only if a written brief has been prepared and submitted in accordance with § 2003.2. The requirements of this subpart may be waived by the Special Representative, the Deputy Special Representative or the Chairman of the Committee for reasons of equity and the public interest.
(b) After receipt and consideration of a request to present oral testimony at a public hearing, the Secretary of the Committee shall notify the applicant whether the request conforms to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, and if so, the time and place for the hearing and for his appearance, and the amount of time allotted for his oral testimony, and if not, will give the reasons why the request does not conform to the requirements.
(c) In presenting testimony, the interested party should supplement the information contained in the written brief, and should be prepared to answer questions relating to such information.
(d) A stenographic record shall be made of every public hearing.
[40 FR 18421, Apr. 28, 1975, as amended at 40 FR 39498, Aug. 28, 1975]
§ 2003.5
Information open to public inspection.
(a) With the exception of information subject to § 2003.6, an interested party may, upon request, inspect at the office of the Committee:
(1) Any written request, brief, or similar submission of information;
(2) Any stenographic record of a public hearing;
(3) Other public written information concerning the trade agreements program and related matters.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 2003.6
Information exempt from public inspection.
(a) The Committee shall exempt from public inspection business information submitted by an interested party if the Committee determines that such information concerns or relates to trade secrets and commercial and financial information the disclosure of which is not authorized by the interested party furnishing such information and is not required by law.
(b) A party requesting that the Committee exempt from public inspection business information submitted in writing shall clearly mark each page “
Business Confidential
” at the top.
(c) The Committee may deny a request that it exempt from public inspection any particular business information if it determines that such information is not entitled to exemption under paragraph (a) of this section. In the event of such denial, the party submitting the particular business information will be notified of the reasons for the denial and will be permitted to withdraw his submission.
Pt. 2004

# PART 2004—DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
2004.0
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Freedom of Information Act Policies and Procedures
2004.1
Purpose and scope.
2004.2
Proactive disclosures.
2004.3
How do I make a request for records under the FOIA?
2004.4
How will we handle confidential commercial information?
2004.5
Who is responsible for responding to your FOIA request?
2004.6
When will we respond to your FOIA request?
2004.7
What will our response to your FOIA request include?
2004.8
What can I do if I am dissatisfied with USTR's response to my FOIA request?
2004.9
Fees.

# Subpart C—Privacy Act Policies and Procedures
2004.20
Definitions.
2004.21
Purpose and scope.
2004.22
How do I make a Privacy Act request?
2004.23
How will USTR respond to my Privacy Act request?
2004.24
What can I do if I am dissatisfied with USTR's response to my Privacy Act request?
2004.25
What does it cost to get records under the Privacy Act?
2004.26
Are there any exemptions from the Privacy Act?
2004.27
How are records secured?
2004.28
Use and collection of Social Security numbers.
2004.29
Employee responsibilities under the Privacy Act.

# Subpart D—Production or Disclosure of USTR Records, Information and Employee Testimony in Legal Proceedings
2004.30
Purpose and scope.
2004.31
Definitions.
2004.32
Production prohibited unless approved.
2004.33
Factors the General Counsel may consider.
2004.34
Submitting demands and requests.
2004.35
Processing demands and requests.
2004.36
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
2004.37
Restrictions that apply to released records or information.
2004.38
In the event of an adverse ruling.
2004.39
Fees.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 2171(e)(3).

# Source:
81 FR 89846, Dec. 13, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 2171(e)(3).
§ 2004.0
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Days,
unless otherwise indicated, means working days, and does not include Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays. If the last day of a specified period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal public holiday, the period will be extended until the next working day.
FOIA
means the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552.
Privacy Act
means the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a.
OGIS
means the Office of Government Information Services of the National Archives and Records Administration. OGIS offers FOIA dispute resolution services, which is a voluntary
process. If USTR agrees to participate in the dispute resolution services provided by OGIS, USTR will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
USTR
means the Office of the United States Trade Representative.
[81 FR 89846, Dec. 13, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 18985, Apr. 25, 2017]

# Subpart B—Freedom of Information Act Policies and Procedures

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552; 19 U.S.C. 2171(e)(3); Uniform Freedom of Information Act Fee Schedule and Guidelines, 52 FR 10012, Mar. 27, 1987.

# Source:
81 FR 90717, Dec. 15, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2004.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This subpart contains the rules we follow when processing requests for records under the FOIA, a Federal law that provides a right of access to certain records and information Federal agencies maintain and control. You should read this subpart in conjunction with the text of the FOIA and the Uniform Freedom of Information Act Fee Schedule and Guidelines published by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB Guidelines). Additionally, our FOIA Reference Guide, which is available on our Web site at
http://www.ustr.gov,
contains information about the specific procedures for making FOIA requests and descriptions of the types of records we maintain.
(b) To maximize the amount of information we can provide to you, we may process requests you make for records about yourself under both this subpart and subpart C to part 2004, our rules implementing the Privacy Act.
(c) We administer the FOIA with a presumption of openness.
§ 2004.2
Proactive disclosures.
You can access records that the FOIA requires us to make available for public inspection and copying in an electronic format through our Web site:
http://www.ustr.gov.
You also can find press releases, links to
Federal Register
notices and comments, fact sheets, speeches and remarks, reports, information about current initiatives, and historical information about U.S. trade issues. If you need assistance to locate a particular record, you can contact the Office of Public and Media Affairs at
MEDIA@ustr.eop.gov
or the FOIA Office at
FOIA@ustr.eop.gov.
§ 2004.3
How do I make a request for records under the FOIA?
(a)
General information
—(1)
Where do I send my written request?
To make a request for records, you should write directly to the FOIA Office. Heightened security delays mail delivery. To avoid mail delivery delays, we strongly suggest that you email your request to
FOIA@ustr.eop.gov.
Our mailing address is: FOIA Office, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Anacostia Naval Annex, Building 410/Door 123, 250 Murray Lane SW., Washington, DC 20509. To ensure that the FOIA Office receives your request without delay, you should include the notation “FOIA Request” in the subject line of your email or on the front of your envelope and also at the beginning of your request.
(2)
Security concerns.
To protect our computer systems, we will not open attachments to emailed requests—you must include your request within the body of the email. We will not process email attachments.
(3)
Verifying your identity.
(i) If you are making a request for records about yourself or about another individual, you may receive greater access by verifying your identity if the records are about you, or the other individual's identity if the records are about them. To verify identity, you must provide an unsworn declaration under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury. To fulfill this requirement, you must include the following statement just before the signature on your request letter:
“I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. Executed on [date].”
(ii) If the other individual is deceased, you should submit proof of death such as a copy of a death certificate or an obituary. As an exercise of
administrative discretion, we may require that you provide additional information if necessary in order to verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure.
(b)
How do I describe the records I want?
(1) You must describe the records you seek in sufficient detail to enable USTR personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To satisfy this requirement, you should be as detailed as possible when describing the records you seek. To the extent possible, you should include specific information that may help us identify the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. For example, we generally will ask you to clarify a request for all records related to a particular trade negotiation or agreement or a request for all communications between USTR and a particular third party. We suggest that you include a date limitation, particular topics, and if asking for correspondence, the subject matter and the relevant parties with contact information such as their email addresses.
(2) If a request does not provide sufficient specific descriptive information for the FOIA Office reasonably to ascertain exactly which records you are requesting and to locate them, our response may be delayed. Please note that in response to a FOIA request, we are not required to create records, conduct research for you, analyze data, answer written questions, or parse your narrative to try and determine the specific records you are seeking. You can contact the FOIA Office before you submit your request for assistance in describing the records you are seeking. If we determine that your request does not reasonably describe the records sought, we will explain why we cannot process your request and ask for additional information. For example, we might ask you to clarify your request if you ask for all documents in a certain date range but do not include a specific subject matter, topic or personnel. We can help you reformulate or modify your request.
(c)
Form or format of responsive records.
You can specify the preferred form or format (including electronic formats) for the records you seek. We will try to accommodate your request if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format.
(d)
Contact information.
You must provide contact information, such as your phone number, email address, and mailing address, so we will be able to communicate with you about your request and provide released records. If we cannot contact you, or you do not respond within thirty calendar days to our requests for clarification, we will close your request.
§ 2004.4
How will we handle confidential commercial information?
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Confidential commercial information
means commercial or financial information that we obtain from a submitter that may be protected from disclosure under exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
(2)
Submitter
means any person or entity, including a corporation or a State or foreign government, but not including another Federal Government entity, which provides information, either directly or indirectly to the Federal Government.
(b)
How does a submitter designate confidential commercial information?
At the time of submission, the submitter of confidential commercial information must use good faith efforts to designate by appropriate markings any portion of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4). These designations expire ten years after the date of the submission unless the submitter requests and provides justification for a longer designation period.
(c)
When will we notify a submitter?
(1) We promptly will notify the submitter of confidential commercial information in writing whenever we receive a FOIA request or appeal for records containing such information if we determine that we may have to disclose the records, provided:
(i) The requested information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4); or
(ii) We have reason to believe that the requested information may be protected from disclosure exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), but have not yet determined whether the information is protected from disclosure under that exemption or any other applicable FOIA exemption.
(2) Our notice either will describe the commercial information requested or include a copy of the requested records or portions of records containing the information. In cases involving a voluminous number of submitters, we may post or publish a notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to inform the submitters of the proposed disclosure without publicly disclosing the records, instead of sending individual notifications.
(3) We promptly will notify the submitter whenever a requester files a lawsuit seeking to compel the disclosure of the submitter's confidential commercial information.
(d)
Exceptions to submitter notice requirements.
The notice requirements of this section do not apply if:
(1) We determine that the information is exempt under the FOIA, and therefore will not be disclosed;
(2) The information has been lawfully published or has officially been made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by a statute other than the FOIA or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600 of June 23, 1987,
Predisclosure notification procedures for confidential commercial information;
or
(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (b) of this section appears obviously frivolous. In such case, we will give the submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information and a reasonable time period within which to object to disclosure under paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)
How can a submitter object to disclosure?
(1) If a submitter has any objections to disclosure, it should provide to us within the period listed in the notice a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular information under any FOIA exemption. In order to rely on exemption 4 as a basis for nondisclosure, the submitter must explain why the information constitutes a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is confidential.
(2) A submitter who does not respond within the time period specified in the notice will be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. We will not consider any information we receive after the date of any disclosure decision. Any information provided by the submitter under this section may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(f)
Analysis of objections.
We will consider the submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose the requested information.
(g)
Notice of intent to disclose.
We will notify the submitter whenever we decide to disclose information over the submitter's objection. Our written notice will include:
(1) A statement of the reasons why we did not sustain each of the submitter's disclosure objections;
(2) A description of the information to be disclosed or copies of the records as we intend to release them; and
(3) A specified disclosure date, which will be a reasonable time after the notice.
(h)
When will we notify a requester?
We will notify the requester whenever we provide the submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever we notify the submitter of our intent to disclose the requested information; and whenever the submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the information.
§ 2004.5
Who is responsible for responding to your FOIA request?
(a)
In general.
The FOIA Office is authorized to grant or to deny any requests for agency records that USTR maintains. In determining which records are responsive to a request, we ordinarily will include only the agency records in our possession as of the date that we begin our search. We will notify you if we use any other date.
(b)
Consultation, referral and coordination.
If we believe that another Federal agency is better able to determine whether a record we locate in response
to your request is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA, then we will proceed in one of the following ways:
(1)
Consultation.
When records originated with USTR but contain within them information of significance to another Federal agency or office, we typically consult with that other entity prior to making a release determination.
(2)
Referral.
If we believe that a different Federal agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, we typically refer responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to that agency. Ordinarily, the agency that originated the record is presumed to be the best agency to make the disclosure determination. Whenever we refer any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another agency, we will notify you of the referral, including the name of the agency and that agency's FOIA contact information.
(3)
Coordination.
The standard referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the Federal agency to which the referral would be made could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests. For example, if a non-law enforcement agency responding to a request for records on a living third party locates within its files records originating with a law enforcement agency, and if the existence of that law enforcement interest in the third party was not publicly known, then to disclose that law enforcement interest could cause an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of the third party. Similarly, if an agency locates within its files material originating with an Intelligence Community agency, and the involvement of that agency in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then to disclose or give attribution to the involvement of that Intelligence Community agency could cause national security harms. In such instances, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, we will coordinate with the originating agency to seek its views on disclosure of the record. We then will notify you of the release determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination.
(c)
Classified information.
On receipt of any request involving classified information, we will determine whether the information is currently and properly classified. Whenever a request involves a record containing information that has been classified or may be appropriate for classification by another Federal agency, we will refer responsibility for responding to the request regarding that information to the agency that classified the information, or that should consider the information for classification. Whenever an agency's record contains information that has been derivatively classified (for example, when it contains information classified by another agency), we will refer responsibility for responding to that portion of the request to the agency that classified the underlying information.
(d)
Timing of responses to consultations and referrals.
We will handle all consultations and referrals we receive according to the date that the first agency received the perfected FOIA request.
(e)
Agreements regarding consultations and referrals.
We may establish agreements with other agencies to eliminate the need for consultations or referrals with respect to particular types of records.
§ 2004.6
When will we respond to your FOIA request?
(a)
In general.
We ordinarily will respond to a request within twenty working days based on the order in which we receive the request. We may toll the twenty-day period if we need additional information from you in order to process the request or need to clarify fee assessment issues.
(b)
Multitrack processing.
We use a multitrack processing system that distinguishes between simple and more complex requests based on the estimated amount of work or time we need to process the request. Among the factors we consider are the number of records requested, the number of pages involved in processing the request, and the need for consultations or referrals. We will tell you if we place your request into other than the simple track, and if appropriate, we will offer you an
opportunity to narrow or modify your request so that it can be placed in a different processing track.
(c)
Unusual circumstances
—(1)
What is an unusual circumstance?
We will notify you if we extend the twenty-day period for processing your request. The notice will include the unusual circumstances—the need to search for and collect the requested records from separate offices or facilities, a request that involves a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records, or the need for consultation, and the date by which we estimate we will complete processing your request. If the extension exceeds ten days, we will give you the opportunity to modify your request or arrange an alternative time period for processing the original or modified request. If you need assistance, you can contact our FOIA Public Liaison at
FOIA@ustr.eop.gov,
or OGIS at
OGIS@nara.gov.
(2)
Aggregating requests.
We may aggregate requests if it reasonably appears that multiple requests submitted either by a single requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, involve related matters and constitute a single request that otherwise would involve unusual circumstances. For example, we may aggregate multiple requests for similar information filed within a short period of time.
(d)
Expedited processing
—(1)
How do I request expedited processing?
When you submit your request or appeal, you can ask us to expedite processing. If you seek expedited processing, you must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for your expedited processing request.
(2)
When will we grant expedited processing?
We will process requests and appeals on an expedited basis if we determine that:
(i) Failure to obtain the records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or
(ii) With respect to a request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, there is an urgency to inform the public about a specific actual or alleged Federal Government activity that is the subject of the request or appeal that extends beyond the public's right to know about government activity generally.
(3)
When will we respond to your request for expedited processing?
We will notify you within ten calendar days of the receipt of a request for expedited processing of our decision whether to grant or deny expedited processing. If we grant your request, we will give your request or appeal priority, place it in the processing track for expedited requests, and process it as soon as practicable. If we deny your request, we will process any appeal of that decision expeditiously.
[81 FR 90717, Dec. 15, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 47772, July 25, 2023]
§ 2004.7
What will our response to your FOIA request include?
(a)
In general.
We will notify you in writing of our determination regarding your request. To the extent practicable, we will communicate with you electronically.
(b)
Acknowledgement of requests.
We will acknowledge your request in writing, including a brief description of the records you are seeking, and assign an individualized tracking number. If we think that we will be unable to make a determination on your request within twenty days, we will send an acknowledgment within ten days and we may ask you to clarify your request or arrange for a longer period for processing.
(c)
Granting requests.
If we decide to grant your request in full or in part, our response will include the records we are disclosing unless we have assessed fees under § 2004.9. If your request involves a voluminous amount of material or searches in multiple locations, we may provide interim responses, releasing the records on a rolling basis. If we assessed fees, we will disclose the records promptly upon payment. If you need assistance, you can contact our FOIA Public Liaison at
FOIA@ustr.eop.gov,
or OGIS at
OGIS@nara.gov.
(d)
Adverse determinations of requests
—(1)
What is an adverse determination?
Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that: the requested record is exempt in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably
describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited processing.
(2)
Our response.
If we make an adverse determination denying your request in any respect, our response will include:
(i) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the determination;
(ii) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemption(s) we applied;
(iii) An estimate of the volume of any records or information we withheld, such as the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation, although such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;
(iv) Information about our FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services provided by OGIS; and
(iv) Your right to appeal our decision under § 2004.8.
(3)
Markings on released documents.
If technically feasible, we will clearly mark records that we are disclosing in part to indicate the location and show the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion was made unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption.
[81 FR 89846, Dec. 13, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 18985, Apr. 25, 2017]
§ 2004.8
What can I do if I am dissatisfied with USTR's response to my FOIA request?
(a)
How do I make an appeal?
—(1)
What can I appeal?
You can appeal any adverse determination in writing to our FOIA Appeals Committee within ninety calendar days after the date of our response. Examples of adverse determinations are provided in § 2004.7(d). You should specify the records that are the subject of your appeal and explain why the Committee should sustain the appeal.
(2)
Where do I send my appeal?
To avoid mail delivery delays caused by heighted security, we strongly suggest that you email any appeal to
FOIA@ustr.eop.gov.
Our mailing address is: FOIA Office, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Anacostia Naval Annex, Building 410/Door 123, 250 Murray Lane SW., Washington DC 20509. To make sure that the FOIA Office receives your appeal without delay, you should include the notation “Freedom of Information Act Appeal” and the individualized tracking number in the subject line of your email or on the front of your envelope and also at the beginning of your appeal.
(b)
Who will decide your appeal?
(1) The FOIA Appeals Committee or designee will act on all appeals under this section.
(2) We ordinarily will not adjudicate an appeal if the request becomes a matter of FOIA litigation.
(3) On receipt of any appeal involving classified information, the FOIA Appeals Committee must take appropriate action to ensure compliance with applicable classification rules.
(c)
Decisions on appeals.
The FOIA Appeals Committee will notify you of its appeal decision in writing within twenty days from the date it receives the appeal. A decision that upholds the FOIA Office's determination in whole or in part will identify the reasons for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied, and notify you of your statutory right to seek judicial review. The notice also will inform you of the dispute resolution services offered by OGIS as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. If the FOIA Appeals Committee remands or modifies the original response, the FOIA Office will further process the request in accordance with the appeal determination and will respond directly to you.
(d)
When appeal is required.
Before seeking review by a court of an adverse determination, you generally first must submit a timely administrative appeal under this section.
[81 FR 89846, Dec. 13, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 18985, Apr. 25, 2017]
§ 2004.9
Fees.
(a)
In general.
We will assess a fee to process your FOIA request in accordance with the provisions of this section and the OMB Guidelines. For purposes of assessing fees, the FOIA establishes three categories of requesters: Commercial use requesters, non-commercial scientific or educational institutions or news media requesters, and all other requesters. Different fees are assessed depending on the category. You can seek a fee waiver, which we will consider in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (h) of this section. We will contact you to resolve any fee issues that arise under this section. We will conduct searches, review and duplication in the most efficient and least expensive manner. We ordinarily will collect all applicable fees before sending copies of records to you. You must pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Commercial use request
is a request that asks for information for a use or a purpose that furthers a commercial, trade or profit interest, which can include furthering those interests through litigation. Our decision to place you in the commercial use category will be made on a case-by-case basis based on your intended use of the information. We will notify you of your placement in this category.
(2)
Direct costs
are the expenses we incur in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial use requests, reviewing) records in order to respond to your FOIA request. For example, direct costs include the salary of the employee performing the work (
i.e.,
the basic rate of pay for the employee plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating computers and other electronic equipment, such as photocopiers and scanners. Direct costs do not include overhead expenses such as the costs of space and of heating or lighting a facility.
(3)
Duplication
is reproducing a copy of a record, or the information contained in it, necessary to respond to a FOIA request. Copies can take the form of paper, audiovisual materials or electronic records, among others.
(4)
Educational institution
is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. You must show that your FOIA request is made in connection with your role at the educational institution. We may seek verification that you are seeking the records to further scholarly research and not for a commercial use. To fall within this fee category, your request must serve the scholarly research goals of the institution rather than an individual research goal. We will advise you of your placement in this category.

# Example 1.
We would presume that a request from a professor of economics for records relating to the economic effects of a trade agreement, written on letterhead of the university's department of economics, is a request from an educational institution.

# Example 2.
We would not presume that a request from the same professor of economics seeking drug information from the Food and Drug Administration in furtherance of a murder mystery he is writing is a request from an educational institution, regardless of whether it was written on institutional stationery.

# Example 3.
We would presume that a request from a student in furtherance of their coursework or other school-sponsored activities evidenced by a course syllabus or other reasonable documentation indicating the research purpose for the request would qualify as part of this fee category.
(5)
Noncommercial scientific institution
is an institution that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry and not on a commercial basis, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. To fall within this fee category, you must show that the request is authorized by and is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records you seek are to further scientific research and not for a commercial use. We will advise you of your placement in this category.
(6)
Representative of the news media
is any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news”
means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast news to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate news and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the Internet. We will not consider a request for records supporting a news-dissemination function to be for a commercial use. We will consider freelance journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, we also may consider your past publication record in making this determination. We will advise you of your placement in this category.
(7)
Review
is the examination of a record located in response to a request in order to determine if any portion of it is exempt from disclosure. Review time includes processing any record for disclosure, such as doing all that is necessary to prepare the record for disclosure, including redacting the record and marking the appropriate exemptions. Review costs are properly charged even if we ultimately do not disclose a record. Review time also includes time spent both obtaining and considering any formal objection to disclosure a confidential commercial information submitter makes under § 2004.4, but it does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
(8)
Search
is the process of looking for and retrieving records or information responsive to a request. Search time includes page-by-page or line-by-line identification of information within records and the reasonable efforts we expend to locate and retrieve information from electronic records.
(c)
Charging fees.
In responding to FOIA requests, we will charge the following fees unless we granted a waiver or reduction of fees under paragraph (h) of this section, or the total fee to be charged is less than $25. If we do not meet the time limits for responding to your request, and if no unusual circumstance described in § 2004.6(c) applies, we will not assess fees.
(1)
Search.
(i) We will not assess any search fees for processing requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media. For all other requesters, we will charge for time spent searching even if we do not locate any responsive records or if we determine that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure. We will provide two hours of free search time except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use.
(ii) For each quarter hour spent by personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, we will charge $76/hour, which is a blended hourly rate for all personnel in the FOIA Office, plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits.
(iii) We will charge the direct costs if it is necessary to create a new computer program to locate the requested records. We will notify you of the costs associated with creating such a program, and you must agree to pay the associated costs before we build the program.
(iv) If your request requires the retrieval of records stored at a Federal records center, we will charge additional costs in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by the National Archives and Records Administration.
(2)
Duplication.
We will charge duplication fees to all requesters. We will honor your preference for receiving a record in a particular form or format if we can readily reproduce it in the form or format requested. If we provide photocopies, we will make one copy per request at the cost of $.10 per page. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks or other media, we will charge the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time. Where we must scan paper documents in order to comply with your preference to receive the records in an electronic format, we will charge you the direct costs associated with scanning those materials. For other forms of duplication, we will charge the direct costs. We will provide
the first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media) without charge except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use.
(3)
Review.
