(3) The water depth is greater than 800 meters (2,624 feet).
§ 250.1729
After I remove a platform or other facility, what information must I submit?
Within 30 days after you remove a platform or other facility, you must submit a written report to the Regional Supervisor that includes the following:
(a) A summary of the removal operation including the date it was completed;
(b) A description of any mitigation measures you took; and
(c) A statement signed by your authorized representative that certifies that the types and amount of explosives you used in removing the platform or other facility were consistent with those set forth in the approved removal application.
§ 250.1730
When might BSEE approve partial structure removal or toppling in place?
The Regional Supervisor may grant a departure from the requirement to remove a platform or other facility by approving partial structure removal or toppling in place for conversion to an artificial reef if you meet the following conditions:
(a) The structure becomes part of a State artificial reef program, and the responsible State agency acquires a permit from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and accepts title and liability for the structure; and
(b) You satisfy any U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) navigational requirements for the structure.
§ 250.1731
Who is responsible for decommissioning an OCS facility subject to an Alternate Use RUE?
(a) The holder of an Alternate Use RUE issued under 30 CFR part 585 is responsible for all decommissioning obligations that accrue following the issuance of the Alternate Use RUE and which pertain to the Alternate Use RUE. See 30 CFR part 585, subpart J, for additional information concerning the decommissioning responsibilities of an Alternate Use RUE grant holder.
(b) The lessee under the lease originally issued under 30 CFR part 556 will remain responsible for decommissioning obligations that accrued before issuance of the Alternate Use RUE, as well as for decommissioning obligations that accrue following issuance of the Alternate Use RUE to the extent associated with continued activities authorized under this part.
(c) If a lease issued under 30 CFR part 556 is cancelled or otherwise terminated under any provision of this subchapter, the lessee, upon our approval, may defer removal of any OCS facility within the lease area that is subject to an Alternate Use RUE. If we elect to grant such a deferral, the lessee remains responsible for removing the facility upon termination of the Alternate Use RUE and will be required to retain sufficient bonding or other financial assurances to ensure that the structure is removed or otherwise decommissioned in accordance with the provisions of this subpart.

# Site Clearance for Wells, Platforms, and Other Facilities
§ 250.1740
How must I verify that the site of a permanently plugged well, removed platform, or other removed facility is clear of obstructions?
Within 60 days after you permanently plug a well or remove a platform or other facility, you must verify that the site is clear of obstructions by using one of the following methods:
(a) For a well site, you must either:
(1) Drag a trawl over the site;
(2) Scan across the location using sonar equipment;
(3) Inspect the site using a diver;
(4) Videotape the site using a camera on a remotely operated vehicle (ROV); or
(5) Use another method approved by the District Manager if the particular site conditions warrant.
(b) For a platform or other facility site in water depths less than 300 feet, you must drag a trawl over the site.
(c) For a platform or other facility site in water depths 300 feet or more, you must either:
(1) Drag a trawl over the site;
(2) Scan across the site using sonar equipment; or
(3) Use another method approved by the Regional Supervisor if the particular site conditions warrant.
§ 250.1741
If I drag a trawl across a site, what requirements must I meet?
If you drag a trawl across the site in accordance with § 250.1740, you must meet all of the requirements of this section.
(a) You must drag the trawl in a grid-like pattern as shown in the following table:
For a . . .
You must drag the trawl across a . . .
(1) Well site,
300-foot-radius circle centered on the well location.
(2) Subsea well site,
600-foot-radius circle centered on the well location.
(3) Platform site,
1,320-foot-radius circle centered on the location of the platform.
(4) Single-well caisson, well protector jacket, template, or manifold,
600-foot-radius circle centered on the structure location.
(b) You must trawl 100 percent of the limits described in paragraph (a) of this section in two directions.
(c) You must mark the area to be cleared as a hazard to navigation according to USCG requirements until you complete the site clearance procedures.
(d) You must use a trawling vessel equipped with a calibrated navigational positioning system capable of providing position accuracy of ±30 feet.
(e) You must use a trawling net that is representative of those used in the commercial fishing industry (one that has a net strength equal or greater than that provided by No. 18 twine).
(f) You must ensure that you trawl no closer than 300 feet from a shipwreck, and 500 feet from a sensitive biological feature.
(g) If you trawl near an active pipeline, you must meet the requirements in the following table:
For . . .
You must trawl . . .
And you must . . .
(1) Buried active pipelines,
First contact the pipeline owner or operator to determine the condition of the pipeline before trawling over the buried pipeline.
(2) Unburied active pipelines that are 8 inches in diameter or larger,
no closer than 100 feet to the either side of the pipeline,
Trawl parallel to the pipeline Do not trawl across the pipeline.
(3) Unburied smaller diameter active pipelines in the trawl area that have obstructions (e.g., pipeline valves) present,
no closer than 100 feet to either side of the pipeline,
Trawl parallel to the pipeline. Do not trawl across the pipeline.
(4) Unburied active pipelines in the trawl area that are smaller than 8 inches in diameter and have no obstructions present,
parallel to the pipeline,
(h) You must ensure that any trawling contractor you may use:
(1) Has no corporate or other financial ties to you; and
(2) Has a valid commercial trawling license for both the vessel and its captain.
§ 250.1742
What other methods can I use to verify that a site is clear?
If you do not trawl a site, you can verify that the site is clear of obstructions by using any of the methods shown in the following table:
If you use . . .
You must . . .
And you must . . .
(a) Sonar,
cover 100 percent of the appropriate grid area listed in § 250.1741(a),
Use a sonar signal with a frequency of at least 500 kHz.
(b) A diver,
ensure that the diver visually inspects 100 percent of the appropriate grid area listed in § 250.1741(a),
Ensure that the diver uses a search pattern of concentric circles or parallel lines spaced no more than 10 feet apart.
(c) An ROV (remotely operated vehicle),
ensure that the ROV camera records videotape over 100 percent of the appropriate grid area listed in § 250.1741(a),
Ensure that the ROV uses a pattern of concentric circles or parallel lines spaced no more than 10 feet apart.
§ 250.1743
How do I certify that a site is clear of obstructions?
(a) For a well site, you must submit to the appropriate District Manager within 30 days after you complete the verification activities a form BSEE-0124, Application for Permit to Modify, to include the following information:
(1) A signed certification that the well site area is cleared of all obstructions;
(2) The date the verification work was performed and the vessel used;
(3) The extent of the area surveyed;
(4) The survey method used;
(5) The results of the survey, including a list of any debris removed or a statement from the trawling contractor that no objects were recovered; and
(6) A post-trawling job plot or map showing the trawled area.
(b) For a platform or other facility site, you must submit the following information to the appropriate Regional Supervisor within 30 days after you complete the verification activities:
(1) A letter signed by an authorized company official certifying that the platform or other facility site area is cleared of all obstructions and that a company representative witnessed the verification activities;
(2) A letter signed by an authorized official of the company that performed the verification work for you certifying that it cleared the platform or other facility site area of all obstructions;
(3) The date the verification work was performed and the vessel used;
(4) The extent of the area surveyed;
(5) The survey method used;
(6) The results of the survey, including a list of any debris removed or a statement from the trawling contractor that no objects were recovered; and
(7) A post-trawling job plot or map showing the trawled area.

# Pipeline Decommissioning
§ 250.1750
When may I decommission a pipeline in place?
You may decommission a pipeline in place when the Regional Supervisor determines that the pipeline does not constitute a hazard (obstruction) to navigation and commercial fishing operations, unduly interfere with other uses of the OCS, or have adverse environmental effects.
§ 250.1751
How do I decommission a pipeline in place?
You must do the following to decommission a pipeline in place:
(a) Submit a pipeline decommissioning application in triplicate to the Regional Supervisor for approval. Your application must be accompanied by payment of the service fee listed in § 250.125. Your application must include the following information:
(1) Reason for the operation;
(2) Proposed decommissioning procedures;
(3) Length (feet) of segment to be decommissioned; and
(4) Length (feet) of segment remaining.
(b) Pig the pipeline, unless the Regional Supervisor determines that pigging is not practical;
(c) Flush the pipeline;
(d) Fill the pipeline with seawater;
(e) Cut and plug each end of the pipeline;
(f) Bury each end of the pipeline at least 3 feet below the seafloor or cover each end with protective concrete mats, if required by the Regional Supervisor; and
(g) Remove all pipeline valves and other fittings that could unduly interfere with other uses of the OCS.
§ 250.1752
How do I remove a pipeline?
Before removing a pipeline, you must:
(a) Submit a pipeline removal application in triplicate to the Regional Supervisor for approval. Your application must be accompanied by payment of the service fee listed in § 250.125. Your application must include the following information:
(1) Proposed removal procedures;
(2) If the Regional Supervisor requires it, a description, including anchor pattern(s), of the vessel(s) you will use to remove the pipeline;
(3) Length (feet) to be removed;
(4) Length (feet) of the segment that will remain in place;
(5) Plans for transportation of the removed pipe for disposal or salvage;
(6) Plans to protect archaeological and sensitive biological features during removal operations, including a brief assessment of the environmental impacts of the removal operations and procedures and mitigation measures that you will take to minimize such impacts; and
(7) Projected removal schedule and duration.
(b) Pig the pipeline, unless the Regional Supervisor determines that pigging is not practical; and
(c) Flush the pipeline.
§ 250.1753
After I decommission a pipeline, what information must I submit?
Within 30 days after you decommission a pipeline, you must submit a written report to the Regional Supervisor that includes the following:
(a) A summary of the decommissioning operation including the date it was completed;
(b) A description of any mitigation measures you took; and
(c) A statement signed by your authorized representative that certifies that the pipeline was decommissioned according to the approved application.
§ 250.1754
When must I remove a pipeline decommissioned in place?
You must remove a pipeline decommissioned in place if the Regional Supervisor determines that the pipeline is an obstruction.
Subpart R [Reserved]

# Subpart S—Safety and Environmental Management Systems (SEMS)
§ 250.1900
Must I have a SEMS program?
You must develop, implement, and maintain a safety and environmental management system (SEMS) program.
Your SEMS program must address the elements described in § 250.1902, American Petroleum Institute's Recommended Practice for Development of a Safety and Environmental Management Program for Offshore Operations and Facilities (API RP 75) (as incorporated by reference in § 250.198), and other requirements as identified in this subpart.
(a) If there are any conflicts between the requirements of this subpart and API RP 75; COS-2-01, COS-2-03, or COS-2-04; or ISO/IEC 17011 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198), you must follow the requirements of this subpart.
(b) Nothing in this subpart affects safety or other matters under the jurisdiction of the Coast Guard.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 20440, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1901
What is the goal of my SEMS program?
The goal of your SEMS program is to promote safety and environmental protection by ensuring all personnel aboard a facility are complying with the policies and procedures identified in your SEMS.
(a) To accomplish this goal, you must ensure that your SEMS program identifies, addresses, and manages safety, environmental hazards, and impacts during the design, construction, start-up, operation (including, but not limited to, drilling and decommissioning), inspection, and maintenance of all new and existing facilities, including mobile offshore drilling units (MODUs) when attached to the seabed and Department of the Interior (DOI) regulated pipelines.
(b) All personnel involved with your SEMS program must be trained to have the skills and knowledge to perform their assigned duties.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 20440, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1902
What must I include in my SEMS program?
You must have a properly documented SEMS program in place and make it available to BSEE upon request as required by § 250.1924(b).
(a) Your SEMS program must meet the minimum criteria outlined in this subpart, including the following SEMS program elements:
(1) General (see § 250.1909)
(2) Safety and Environmental Information (see § 250.1910)
(3) Hazards Analysis (see § 250.1911)
(4) Management of Change (see § 250.1912)
(5) Operating Procedures (see § 250.1913)
(6) Safe Work Practices (see § 250.1914)
(7) Training (see § 250.1915)
(8) Mechanical Integrity (Assurance of Quality and Mechanical Integrity of Critical Equipment) (see § 250.1916)
(9) Pre-startup Review (see § 250.1917)
(10) Emergency Response and Control (see § 250.1918)
(11) Investigation of Incidents (see § 250.1919)
(12) Auditing (Audit of Safety and Environmental Management Program Elements) (
see
§ 250.1920)
(13) Recordkeeping (Records and Documentation) and additional BSEE requirements (
see
§ 250.1928)
(14) Stop Work Authority (SWA) (see § 250.1930)
(15) Ultimate Work Authority (UWA) (see § 250.1931)
(16) Employee Participation Plan (EPP) (see § 250.1932)
(17) Reporting Unsafe Working Conditions (see § 250.1933).
(b) You must include a job safety analysis (JSA) for OCS activities identified or discussed in your SEMS program (see § 250.1911).
(c) Your SEMS program must meet or exceed the standards of safety and environmental protection of API RP 75 (as incorporated by reference in § 250.198).
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 20440, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1903
Acronyms and definitions.
Definitions listed in this section apply to this subpart and supersede definitions in API RP 75, Appendices D and E; COS-2-01, COS-2-03, and COS-2-04; and ISO/IEC 17011 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198).
(a)
Acronyms
used frequently in this subpart have the following meanings:
AB
means Accreditation Body,
ASP
means Audit Service Provider,
CAP
means Corrective Action Plan,
COS
means Center for Offshore Safety,
EPP
means Employee Participation Plan,
ISO
means International Organization for Standardization,
JSA
means Job Safety Analysis,
MODU
means Mobile Offshore Drilling Unit,
OCS
means Outer Continental Shelf,
SEMS
means Safety and Environmental Management Systems,
SWA
means Stop Work Authority,
USCG
means United States Coast Guard, and
UWA
means Ultimate Work Authority.
(b)
Terms
used in this subpart are listed alphabetically as follows:
Accreditation Body (AB)
means a BSEE-approved independent third-party organization that assesses and accredits ASPs.
Audit Service Provider (ASP)
means an independent third-party organization that demonstrates competence to conduct SEMS audits in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.
Corrective Action Plan (CAP)
means a scheduled plan to correct deficiencies identified during an audit and that is developed by an operator following the issuance of an audit report.
Personnel
means direct employee(s) of the operator and contracted workers.
Ultimate Work Authority (UWA)
means the authority assigned to an individual or position to make final decisions relating to activities and operations on the facility.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 20440, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1904
Special instructions.
(a) For purposes of this subpart, each and every reference in COS-2-01, COS-2-03, and COS-2-04 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198) to the term
deepwater
means the entire OCS, including all water depths.
(b) The BSEE does not incorporate by reference any requirement that you must be a COS member company. For purposes of this subpart, each and every reference in COS-2-01, COS-2-03, and COS-2-04 to the phrase
COS member company(ies)
means you, whether or not you are a COS member.
(c) For purposes of this subpart, each and every reference in the relevant sections of COS-2-01, COS-2-03, and COS-2-04 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198) to the
Center for Offshore Safety
or
COS
means
accreditation body
or
AB.
(d) For purposes of this subpart, each and every reference in ISO/IEC 17011 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198) to
conformity assessment body (CAB)
means
ASP.
[78 FR 20441, Apr. 5, 2013]
§§ 250.1905-250.1908
[Reserved]
§ 250.1909
What are management's general responsibilities for the SEMS program?
You, through your management, must require that the program elements discussed in API RP 75 (as incorporated by reference in § 250.198) and in this subpart are properly documented and are available at field and office locations, as appropriate for each program element. You, through your management, are responsible for the development, support, continued improvement, and overall success of your SEMS program. Specifically you, through your management, must:
(a) Establish goals and performance measures, demand accountability for implementation, and provide necessary resources for carrying out an effective SEMS program.
(b) Appoint management representatives who are responsible for establishing, implementing and maintaining an effective SEMS program.
(c) Designate specific management representatives who are responsible for reporting to management on the performance of the SEMS program.
(d) At intervals specified in the SEMS program and at least annually, review the SEMS program to determine if it continues to be suitable, adequate and effective (by addressing the possible need for changes to policy, objectives, and other elements of the program in light of program audit results, changing circumstances and the commitment to continual improvement) and document the observations, conclusions and recommendations of that review.
(e) Develop and endorse a written description of your safety and environmental policies and organizational structure that define responsibilities, authorities, and lines of communication required to implement the SEMS program.
(f) Utilize personnel with expertise in identifying safety hazards, environmental impacts, optimizing operations, developing safe work practices, developing training programs and investigating incidents.
(g) Ensure that facilities are designed, constructed, maintained, monitored, and operated in a manner compatible with applicable industry codes, consensus standards, and generally accepted practice as well as in compliance with all applicable governmental regulations.
(h) Ensure that management of safety hazards and environmental impacts is an integral part of the design, construction, maintenance, operation, and monitoring of each facility.
(i) Ensure that suitably trained and qualified personnel are employed to carry out all aspects of the SEMS program.
(j) Ensure that the SEMS program is maintained and kept up to date by means of periodic audits to ensure effective performance.
§ 250.1910
What safety and environmental information is required?
(a) You must require that SEMS program safety and environmental information be developed and maintained for any facility that is subject to the SEMS program.
(b) SEMS program safety and environmental information must include:
(1) Information that provides the basis for implementing all SEMS program elements, including the requirements of hazard analysis (§ 250.1911);
(2) process design information including, as appropriate, a simplified process flow diagram and acceptable upper and lower limits, where applicable, for items such as temperature, pressure, flow and composition; and
(3) mechanical design information including, as appropriate, piping and instrument diagrams; electrical area classifications; equipment arrangement drawings; design basis of the relief system; description of alarm, shutdown, and interlock systems; description of well control systems; and design basis for passive and active fire protection features and systems and emergency evacuation procedures.
§ 250.1911
What hazards analysis criteria must my SEMS program meet?
You must ensure that a hazards analysis (facility level) and a JSA (operations/task level) are developed and implemented for all of your facilities and activities identified or discussed in your SEMS. You must document and maintain a current analysis for each operation covered by this section for the life of the operation at the facility. You must update the analysis when an internal audit is conducted to ensure that it is consistent with your facility's current operations.
(a)
Hazards analysis (facility level).
The hazards analysis must be appropriate for the complexity of the operation and must identify, evaluate, and manage the hazards involved in the operation.
(1) The hazards analysis must address the following:
(i) Hazards of the operation;
(ii) Previous incidents related to the operation you are evaluating, including any incident in which you were issued an Incident of Noncompliance or a civil or criminal penalty;
(iii) Control technology applicable to the operation your hazards analysis is evaluating; and
(iv) A qualitative evaluation of the possible safety and health effects on employees, and potential impacts to the human and marine environments, which may result if the control technology fails.
(2) The hazards analysis must be performed by a person(s) with experience in the operations being evaluated. These individuals also need to be experienced in the hazards analysis methodologies being employed.
(3) You should assure that the recommendations in the hazards analysis are resolved and that the resolution is documented.
(4) A single hazards analysis can be performed to fulfill the requirements for simple and nearly identical facilities, such as well jackets and single
well caissons. You can apply this single hazards analysis to simple and nearly identical facilities after you verify that any site-specific deviations are addressed in each of your SEMS program elements.
(b)
JSA.
You must ensure a JSA is prepared, conducted, and approved for OCS activities that are identified or discussed in your SEMS program. The JSA is a technique used to identify risks to personnel associated with their job activities. The JSAs are also used to determine the appropriate mitigation measures needed to reduce job risks to personnel. The JSA must include all personnel involved with the job activity.
(1) You must ensure that your JSA identifies, analyzes, and records:
(i) The steps involved in performing a specific job;
(ii) The existing or potential safety, health, and environmental hazards associated with each step; and
(iii) The recommended action(s) and/or procedure(s) that will eliminate or reduce these hazards, the risk of a workplace injury or illness, or environmental impacts.
(2) The immediate supervisor of the crew performing the job onsite must conduct the JSA, sign the JSA, and ensure that all personnel participating in the job understand and sign the JSA.
(3) The individual you designate as being in charge of the facility must approve and sign all JSAs before personnel start the job.
(4) If a particular job is conducted on a recurring basis, and if the parameters of these recurring jobs do not change, then the person in charge of the job may decide that a JSA for each individual job is not required. The parameters you must consider in making this determination include, but are not limited to, changes in personnel, procedures, equipment, and environmental conditions associated with the job.
(c) All personnel, which includes contractors, must be trained in accordance with the requirements of § 250.1915. You must also verify that contractors are trained in accordance with § 250.1915 prior to performing a job.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 20441, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1912
What criteria for management of change must my SEMS program meet?
(a) You must develop and implement written management of change procedures for modifications associated with the following:
(1) Equipment,
(2) Operating procedures,
(3) Personnel changes (including contractors),
(4) Materials, and
(5) Operating conditions.
(b) Management of change procedures do not apply to situations involving replacement in kind (such as, replacement of one component by another component with the same performance capabilities).
(c) You must review all changes prior to their implementation.
(d) The following items must be included in your management of change procedures:
(1) The technical basis for the change;
(2) Impact of the change on safety, health, and the coastal and marine environments;
(3) Necessary time period to implement the change; and
(4) Management approval procedures for the change.
(e) Employees, including contractors whose job tasks will be affected by a change in the operation, must be informed of, and trained in, the change prior to startup of the process or affected part of the operation; and
(f) If a management of change results in a change in the operating procedures of your SEMS program, such changes must be documented and dated.
§ 250.1913
What criteria for operating procedures must my SEMS program meet?
(a) You must develop and implement written operating procedures that provide instructions for conducting safe and environmentally sound activities involved in each operation addressed in your SEMS program. These procedures must include the job title and reporting relationship of the person or persons responsible for each of the facility's operating areas and address the following:
(1) Initial startup;
(2) Normal operations;
(3) All emergency operations (including but not limited to medical evacuations, weather-related evacuations and emergency shutdown operations);
(4) Normal shutdown;
(5) Startup following a turnaround, or after an emergency shutdown;
(6) Bypassing and flagging out-of-service equipment;
(7) Safety and environmental consequences of deviating from your equipment operating limits and steps required to correct or avoid this deviation;
(8) Properties of, and hazards presented by, the chemicals used in the operations;
(9) Precautions you will take to prevent the exposure of chemicals used in your operations to personnel and the environment. The precautions must include control technology, personal protective equipment, and measures to be taken if physical contact or airborne exposure occurs;
(10) Raw materials used in your operations and the quality control procedures you used in purchasing these raw materials;
(11) Control of hazardous chemical inventory; and
(12) Impacts to the human and marine environment identified through your hazards analysis.
(b) Operating procedures must be accessible to all employees involved in the operations.
(c) Operating procedures must be reviewed at the conclusion of specified periods and as often as necessary to assure they reflect current and actual operating practices, including any changes made to your operations.
(d) You must develop and implement safe and environmentally sound work practices for identified hazards during operations and the degree of hazard presented.
(e) Review of and changes to the procedures must be documented and communicated to responsible personnel.
§ 250.1914
What criteria must be documented in my SEMS program for safe work practices and contractor selection?
Your SEMS program must establish and implement safe work practices designed to minimize the risks associated with operations, maintenance, modification activities, and the handling of materials and substances that could affect safety or the environment. Your SEMS program must also document contractor selection criteria. When selecting a contractor, you must obtain and evaluate information regarding the contractor's safety record and environmental performance. You must ensure that contractors have their own written safe work practices. Contractors may adopt appropriate sections of your SEMS program. You and your contractor must document an agreement on appropriate contractor safety and environmental policies and practices before the contractor begins work at your facilities.
(a) A contractor is anyone performing work for you. However, these requirements do not apply to contractors providing domestic services to you or other contractors. Domestic services include janitorial work, food and beverage service, laundry service, housekeeping, and similar activities.
(b) You must document that your contracted employees are knowledgeable and experienced in the work practices necessary to perform their job in a safe and environmentally sound manner. Documentation of each contracted employee's expertise to perform his/her job and a copy of the contractor's safety policies and procedures must be made available to the operator and BSEE upon request.
(c) Your SEMS program must include procedures and verification for selecting a contractor as follows:
(1) Your SEMS program must have procedures that verify that contractors are conducting their activities in accordance with your SEMS program.
(2) You are responsible for making certain that contractors have the skills and knowledge to perform their assigned duties and are conducting these activities in accordance with the requirements in your SEMS program.
(3) You must make the results of your verification for selecting contractors available to BSEE upon request.
(d) Your SEMS program must include procedures and verification that contractor personnel understand and can perform their assigned duties for activities such as, but not limited to:
(1) Installation, maintenance, or repair of equipment;
(2) Construction, startup, and operation of your facilities;
(3) Turnaround operations;
(4) Major renovation; or
(5) Specialty work.
(e) You must:
(1) Perform periodic evaluations of the performance of contract employees that verifies they are fulfilling their obligations, and
(2) Maintain a contractor employee injury and illness log for 2 years related to the contractor's work in the operation area, and include this information on Form BSEE-0131.
(f) You must inform your contractors of any known hazards at the facility they are working on including, but not limited to fires, explosions, slips, trips, falls, other injuries, and hazards associated with lifting operations.
(g) You must develop and implement safe work practices to control the presence, entrance, and exit of contract employees in operation areas.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 20441, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1915
What training criteria must be in my SEMS program?
Your SEMS program must establish and implement a training program so that all personnel are trained in accordance with their duties and responsibilities to work safely and are aware of potential environmental impacts. Training must address such areas as operating procedures (§ 250.1913), safe work practices (§ 250.1914), emergency response and control measures (§ 250.1918), SWA (§ 250.1930), UWA (§ 250.1931), EPP (§ 250.1932), reporting unsafe working conditions (§ 250.1933), and how to recognize and identify hazards and how to construct and implement JSAs (§ 250.1911). You must document your instructors' qualifications. Your SEMS program must address:
(a) Initial training for the basic well-being of personnel and protection of the environment, and ensure that persons assigned to operate and maintain the facility possess the required knowledge and skills to carry out their duties and responsibilities, including startup and shutdown.
(b) Periodic training to maintain understanding of, and adherence to, the current operating procedures, using periodic drills, to verify adequate retention of the required knowledge and skills.
(c) Communication requirements to ensure that personnel will be informed of and trained as outlined in this section whenever a change is made in any of the areas in your SEMS program that impacts their ability to properly understand and perform their duties and responsibilities. Training and/or notice of the change must be given before personnel are expected to operate the facility.
(d) How you will verify that the contractors are trained in the work practices necessary to understand and perform their jobs in a safe and environmentally sound manner in accordance with all provisions of this section.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 20441, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1916
What criteria for mechanical integrity must my SEMS program meet?
You must develop and implement written procedures that provide instructions to ensure the mechanical integrity and safe operation of equipment through inspection, testing, and quality assurance. The purpose of mechanical integrity is to ensure that equipment is fit for service. Your mechanical integrity program must encompass all equipment and systems used to prevent or mitigate uncontrolled releases of hydrocarbons, toxic substances, or other materials that may cause environmental or safety consequences. These procedures must address the following:
(a) The design, procurement, fabrication, installation, calibration, and maintenance of your equipment and systems in accordance with the manufacturer's design and material specifications.
(b) The training of each employee involved in maintaining your equipment and systems so that your employees can implement your mechanical integrity program.
(c) The frequency of inspections and tests of your equipment and systems. The frequency of inspections and tests
must be in accordance with BSEE regulations and meet the manufacturer's recommendations. Inspections and tests can be performed more frequently if determined to be necessary by prior operating experience.
(d) The documentation of each inspection and test that has been performed on your equipment and systems. This documentation must identify the date of the inspection or test; include the name and position, and the signature of the person who performed the inspection or test; include the serial number or other identifier of the equipment on which the inspection or test was performed; include a description of the inspection or test performed; and the results of the inspection test.
(e) The correction of deficiencies associated with equipment and systems that are outside the manufacturer's recommended limits. Such corrections must be made before further use of the equipment and system.
(f) The installation of new equipment and constructing systems. The procedures must address the application for which they will be used.
(g) The modification of existing equipment and systems. The procedures must ensure that they are modified for the application for which they will be used.
(h) The verification that inspections and tests are being performed. The procedures must be appropriate to ensure that equipment and systems are installed consistent with design specifications and the manufacturer's instructions.
(i) The assurance that maintenance materials, spare parts, and equipment are suitable for the applications for which they will be used.
§ 250.1917
What criteria for pre-startup review must be in my SEMS program?
Your SEMS program must require that the commissioning process include a pre-startup safety and environmental review for new and significantly modified facilities that are subject to this subpart to confirm that the following criteria are met:
(a) Construction and equipment are in accordance with applicable specifications.
(b) Safety, environmental, operating, maintenance, and emergency procedures are in place and are adequate.
(c) Safety and environmental information is current.
(d) Hazards analysis recommendations have been implemented as appropriate.
(e) Training of operating personnel has been completed.
(f) Programs to address management of change and other elements of this subpart are in place.
(g) Safe work practices are in place.
§ 250.1918
What criteria for emergency response and control must be in my SEMS program?
Your SEMS program must require that emergency response and control plans are in place and are ready for immediate implementation. These plans must be validated by drills carried out in accordance with a schedule defined by the SEMS training program (§ 250.1915). The SEMS emergency response and control plans must include:
(a) Emergency Action Plan that assigns authority and responsibility to the appropriate qualified person(s) at a facility for initiating effective emergency response and control, addressing emergency reporting and response requirements, and complying with all applicable governmental regulations;
(b) Emergency Control Center(s) designated for each facility with access to the Emergency Action Plans, oil spill contingency plan, and other safety and environmental information (§ 250.1910); and
(c) Training and Drills incorporating emergency response and evacuation procedures conducted periodically for all personnel (including contractor's personnel), as required by the SEMS training program (§ 250.1915). Drills must be based on realistic scenarios conducted periodically to exercise elements contained in the facility or area emergency action plan. An analysis and critique of each drill must be conducted to identify and correct weaknesses.
§ 250.1919
What criteria for investigation of incidents must be in my SEMS program?
To learn from incidents and help prevent similar incidents, your SEMS program must establish procedures for investigation of all incidents with serious safety or environmental consequences and require investigation of incidents that are determined by facility management or BSEE to have possessed the potential for serious safety or environmental consequences. Incident investigations must be initiated as promptly as possible, with due regard for the necessity of securing the incident scene and protecting people and the environment. Incident investigations must be conducted by personnel knowledgeable in the process involved, investigation techniques, and other specialties that are relevant or necessary.
(a) The investigation of an incident must address the following:
(1) The nature of the incident;
(2) The factors (human or other) that contributed to the initiation of the incident and its escalation/control; and
(3) Recommended changes identified as a result of the investigation.
(b) A corrective action program must be established based on the findings of the investigation in order to analyze incidents for common root causes. The corrective action program must:
(1) Retain the findings of investigations for use in the next hazard analysis update or audit;
(2) Determine and document the response to each finding to ensure that corrective actions are completed; and
(3) Implement a system whereby conclusions of investigations are distributed to similar facilities and appropriate personnel within their organization.
§ 250.1920
What are the auditing requirements for my SEMS program?
(a) Your SEMS program must be audited by an accredited ASP according to the requirements of this subpart and API RP 75, Section 12 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198). The audit process must also meet or exceed the criteria in Sections 9.1 through 9.8 of
Requirements for Third-party SEMS Auditing and Certification of Deepwater Operations
COS-2-03 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198) or its equivalent. Additionally, the audit team lead must be an employee, representative, or agent of the ASP, and must not have any affiliation with the operator. The remaining team members may be chosen from your personnel and those of the ASP. The audit must be comprehensive and include all elements of your SEMS program. It must also identify safety and environmental performance deficiencies.
(b) Your audit plan and procedures must meet or exceed all of the recommendations included in API RP 75 section 12 (as specified in § 250.198) and include information on how you addressed those recommendations. You must specifically address the following items:
(1) Section 12.1 General.
(2) Section 12.2 Scope.
(3) Section 12.3 Audit Coverage.
(4) Section 12.4 Audit Plan. You must submit your written Audit Plan to BSEE at least 30 days before the audit. BSEE reserves the right to modify the list of facilities that you propose to audit.
(5) Section 12.5 Audit Frequency. You must have your SEMS program audited by an ASP within 2 years after initial implementation and every 3 years thereafter. The 3-year auditing cycle begins on the start date of each comprehensive audit (including the initial implementation audit) and ends on the start date of your next comprehensive audit. For exploratory drilling operations taking place on the Arctic OCS, you must conduct an audit, consisting of an onshore portion and an offshore portion, including all related infrastructure, once per year for every year in which drilling is conducted.
(6) Section 12.6 Audit Team. Your audits must be performed by an ASP as described in § 250.1921. You must include the ASP's qualifications in your audit plan.
(c) You must submit an audit report of the audit findings, observations, deficiencies identified, and conclusions to BSEE within 60 days of the audit completion date. For exploratory drilling operations taking place on the Arctic OCS, you must submit an audit report
of the audit findings, observations, deficiencies and conclusions for the onshore portion of your audit no later than March 1 in any year in which you plan to drill, and for the offshore portion of your audit, within 30 days of the close of the audit.
(d) You must provide BSEE with a copy of your CAP for addressing the deficiencies identified in your audit within 60 days of the audit completion date. Your CAP must include the name and job title of the personnel responsible for correcting the identified deficiency(ies). The BSEE will notify you as soon as practicable after receipt of your CAP if your proposed schedule is not acceptable or if the CAP does not effectively address the audit findings. For exploratory drilling operations taking place on the Arctic OCS, you must provide BSEE with a copy of your CAP for addressing deficiencies or nonconformities identified in the onshore portion of the audit no later than March 1 in any year in which you plan to drill, and for the offshore portion of your audit, within 30 days of the close of the audit.
(e) BSEE may verify that you undertook the corrective actions and that these actions effectively address the audit findings.
(f) For exploratory drilling operations taking place on the Arctic OCS, during the offshore portion of each audit, 100 percent of the facilities operated must be audited while drilling activities are underway. You must start and close the offshore portion of the audit for each facility within 30 days after the first spudding of the well or entry into an existing wellbore for any purpose from that facility.
(g) For exploratory drilling operations taking place on the Arctic OCS, if BSEE determines that the CAP or progress toward implementing the CAP is not satisfactory, BSEE may order you to shut down all or part of your operations.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 20442, Apr. 5, 2013; 81 FR 36151, June 6, 2016; 81 FR 46563, July 15, 2016]
§ 250.1921
What qualifications must the ASP meet?
(a) The ASP must meet or exceed the qualifications, competency, and training criteria contained in Section 3 and Sections 6 through 10 of
Qualification and Competence Requirements for Audit Teams and Auditors Performing Third-party SEMS Audits of Deepwater Operations,
COS-2-01, (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198) or its equivalent;
(b) The ASP must be accredited by a BSEE-approved AB; and
(c) The ASP must perform an audit in accordance with 250.1920(a).
[78 FR 20442, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1922
What qualifications must an AB meet?
(a) In order for BSEE to approve an AB, the organization must satisfy the requirements of the International Organization for Standardization's (ISO/IEC 17011)
Conformity assessment—General requirements for accreditation bodies accrediting conformity assessment bodies,
First Edition 2004-09-01; Corrected Version 2005-02-15 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198) or its equivalent.
(1) The AB must have an accreditation process that meets or exceeds the requirements contained in Section 6 of
Requirements for Accreditation of Audit Service Providers Performing SEMS Audits and Certification of Deepwater Operations,
COS-2-04 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198) or its equivalent, and other requirements specified in this subpart. Organizations requesting approval must submit documentation to BSEE describing the process for assessing an ASP for accreditation and approving, maintaining, and withdrawing the accreditation of an ASP. Requests for approval must be sent to DOI/BSEE, ATTN: Chief, Office of Offshore Regulatory Programs, 381 Elden Street, HE-3314, Herndon, VA 20170.
(2) An AB may be subject to BSEE audits and other requirements deemed necessary to verify compliance with the accreditation requirements.
(b) An AB must have procedures in place to avoid conflicts of interest with the ASP and make such information available to BSEE upon request.
[78 FR 20442, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1923
[Reserved]
§ 250.1924
How will BSEE determine if my SEMS program is effective?
(a) The BSEE, or its authorized representative, may evaluate or visit your facility(ies) to determine whether your SEMS program is in place, addresses all required elements, is effective in protecting worker safety and health and the environment, and preventing incidents. The BSEE, or its authorized representative, may evaluate any and all aspects of your SEMS program as outlined in this subpart. These evaluations or visits may be random and may be based upon your performance or that of your contractors.
(b) For the evaluations, you must make the following available to BSEE upon request:
(1) Your SEMS program;
(2) Your audit team's qualifications;
(3) The SEMS audits conducted of your program;
(4) Documents or information relevant to whether you have addressed and corrected the deficiencies of your audit; and
(5) Other relevant documents or information.
(c) During the site visit BSEE may verify that:
(1) Personnel are following your SEMS program,
(2) You can explain and demonstrate the procedures and policies included in your SEMS program; and
(3) You can produce evidence to support the implementation of your SEMS program.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 20442, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1925
May BSEE direct me to conduct additional audits?
(a) The BSEE may direct you to have an ASP audit of your SEMS program if BSEE identifies safety or non-compliance concerns based on the results of our inspections and evaluations, or as a result of an event. This BSEE-directed audit is in addition to the regular audit required by § 250.1920. Alternatively, BSEE may conduct an audit.
(1) If BSEE directs you to have an ASP audit, you are responsible for all of the costs associated with the audit, and
(i) The ASP must meet the requirements of §§ 250.1920 and 250.1921 of this subpart.
(ii) You must submit an audit report of the audit findings, observations, deficiencies identified, and conclusions to BSEE within 60 days of the audit completion date.
(2) If BSEE conducts the audit, BSEE will provide you with a report of the audit findings, observations, deficiencies identified, and conclusions as soon as practicable.
(b) You must provide BSEE a copy of your CAP for addressing the deficiencies identified in the BSEE-directed audit within 60 days of the audit completion date. Your CAP must include the name and job title of the personnel responsible for correcting the identified deficiency(ies). The BSEE will notify you as soon as practicable after receipt of your CAP if your proposed schedule is not acceptable or if the CAP does not effectively address the audit findings.
[78 FR 20442, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1926
[Reserved]
§ 250.1927
What happens if BSEE finds shortcomings in my SEMS program?
If BSEE determines that your SEMS program is not in compliance with this subpart we may initiate one or more of the following enforcement actions:
(a) Issue an Incident(s) of Noncompliance;
(b) Assess civil penalties; or
(c) Initiate probationary or disqualification procedures from serving as an OCS operator.
§ 250.1928
What are my recordkeeping and documentation requirements?
(a) Your SEMS program procedures must ensure that records and documents are maintained for a period of 6 years, except as provided below. You must document and keep all SEMS audits for 6 years and make them available to BSEE upon request. You must maintain a copy of all SEMS program documents at an onshore location.
(b) For JSAs, the person in charge of the job must document the results of the JSA in writing and must ensure that records are kept onsite for 30
days. In the case of a MODU, records must be kept onsite for 30 days or until you release the MODU, whichever comes first. You must retain these records for 2 years and make them available to BSEE upon request.
(c) You must document and date all management of change provisions as specified in § 250.1912. You must retain these records for 2 years and make them available to BSEE upon request.
(d) You must keep your injury/illness log for 2 years and make them available to BSEE upon request.
(e) You must keep all evaluations completed on contractor's safety policies and procedures for 2 years and make them available to BSEE upon request.
(f) For SWA, you must document all training and reviews required by § 250.1930(e). You must ensure that these records are kept onsite for 30 days. In the case of a MODU, records must be kept onsite for 30 days or until you release the MODU, whichever comes first. You must retain these records for 2 years and make them available to BSEE upon request.
(g) For EPP, you must document your employees' participation in the development and implementation of the SEMS program. You must retain these records for 2 years and make them available to BSEE upon request.
(h) You must keep all records in an orderly manner, readily identifiable, retrievable and legible, and include the date of any and all revisions.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 20442, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1929
What are my responsibilities for submitting OCS performance measure data?
You must submit Form BSEE-0131 on an annual basis by March 31st. The form must be broken down quarterly, reporting the previous calendar year's data.
§ 250.1930
What must be included in my SEMS program for SWA?
(a) Your SWA procedures must ensure the capability to immediately stop work that is creating imminent risk or danger. These procedures must grant all personnel the responsibility and authority, without fear of reprisal, to stop work or decline to perform an assigned task when an imminent risk or danger exists. Imminent risk or danger means any condition, activity, or practice in the workplace that could reasonably be expected to cause:
(1) Death or serious physical harm; or
(2) Significant environmental harm to:
(i) Land;
(ii) Air; or
(iii) Mineral deposits, marine, coastal, or human environment.
(b) The person in charge of the conducted work is responsible for ensuring the work is stopped in an orderly and safe manner. Individuals who receive a notification to stop work must comply with that direction immediately.
(c) Work may be resumed when the individual on the facility with UWA determines that the imminent risk or danger does not exist or no longer exists. The decision to resume activities must be documented in writing as soon as practicable.
(d) You must include SWA procedures and expectations as a standard statement in all JSAs.
(e) You must conduct training on your SWA procedures as part of orientations for all new personnel who perform activities on the OCS. Additionally, the SWA procedures must be reviewed during all meetings focusing on safety on facilities subject to this subpart.
[78 FR 20443, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1931
What must be included in my SEMS program for UWA?
(a) Your SEMS program must have a process to identify the individual with the UWA on your facility(ies). You must designate this individual taking into account all applicable USCG regulations that deal with designating a person in charge of an OCS facility. Your SEMS program must clearly define who is in charge at all times. In the event that multiple facilities, including a MODU, are attached and working together or in close proximity to one another to perform an OCS operation, your SEMS program must identify the individual with the UWA over the entire operation, including all facilities.
(b) You must ensure that all personnel clearly know who has UWA and who is in charge of a specific operation or activity at all times, including when that responsibility shifts to a different individual.
(c) The SEMS program must provide that if an emergency occurs that creates an imminent risk or danger to the health or safety of an individual, the public, or to the environment (as specified in § 250.1930(a)), the individual with the UWA is authorized to pursue the most effective action necessary in that individual's judgment for mitigating and abating the conditions or practices causing the emergency.
[78 FR 20443, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1932
What are my EPP requirements?
(a) Your management must consult with their employees on the development, implementation, and modification of your SEMS program.
(b) Your management must develop a written plan of action regarding how your appropriate employees, in both your offices and those working on offshore facilities, will participate in your SEMS program development and implementation.
(c) Your management must ensure that employees have access to sections of your SEMS program that are relevant to their jobs.
[78 FR 20443, Apr. 5, 2013]
§ 250.1933
What procedures must be included for reporting unsafe working conditions?
(a) Your SEMS program must include procedures for all personnel to report unsafe working conditions in accordance with § 250.193. These procedures must take into account applicable USCG reporting requirements for unsafe working conditions.
(b) You must post a notice at the place of employment in a visible location frequently visited by personnel that contains the reporting information in § 250.193.
[78 FR 20443, Apr. 5, 2013]
Pt. 251

# PART 251—GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL (G

# G) EXPLORATIONS OF THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
Sec.
251.1
Definitions.
251.2
[Reserved]
251.3
Authority and applicability of this part.
251.4-251.6
[Reserved]
251.7
Test drilling activities under a permit.
251.8-251.14
[Reserved]
251.15
Authority for information collection.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 9701, 43 U.S.C. 1334.

# Source:
76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 251.1
Definitions.
Terms used in this part have the following meaning:
Act
means the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA), as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
).
Analyzed geological information
means data collected under a permit or a lease that have been analyzed. Analysis may include, but is not limited to, identification of lithologic and fossil content, core analyses, laboratory analyses of physical and chemical properties, well logs or charts, results from formation fluid tests, and descriptions of hydrocarbon occurrences or hazardous conditions.
Archaeological interest
means capable of providing scientific or humanistic understanding of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques, such as controlled observation, contextual measurements, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation, and explanation.
Archaeological resources
mean any material remains of human life or activities that are at least 50 years of age and of archaeological interest.
Coastal environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the terrestrial ecosystem from the shoreline inward to the boundaries of the coastal zone.
Coastal Zone
means the coastal waters (including the lands therein and thereunder) and the adjacent
shorelands (including the waters therein and thereunder), strongly influenced by each other and in proximity to the shorelines of the several coastal States and extends seaward to the outer limit of the U.S. territorial sea.
Coastal Zone Management Act
means the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
).
Data
means facts, statistics, measurements, or samples that have not been analyzed, processed, or interpreted.
Deep stratigraphic test
means drilling that involves the penetration into the sea bottom of more than 500 feet (152 meters).
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, U.S. Department of the Interior, or a subordinate authorized to act on the Director's behalf.
Exploration
means the commercial search for oil, gas, and sulphur. Activities classified as exploration include, but are not limited to:
(1) Geological and geophysical marine and airborne surveys where magnetic, gravity, seismic reflection, seismic refraction, gas sniffers, coring, or other systems are used to detect or imply the presence of oil, gas, or sulphur; and
(2) Any drilling, whether on or off a geological structure.
Geological and geophysical scientific research
means any oil, gas, or sulphur related investigation conducted in the OCS for scientific and/or research purposes. Geological, geophysical, and geochemical data and information gathered and analyzed are made available to the public for inspection and reproduction at the earliest practicable time. The term does not include commercial geological or geophysical exploration or research.
Geological exploration
means exploration that uses geological and geochemical techniques (e.g., coring and test drilling, well logging, and bottom sampling) to produce data and information on oil, gas, and sulphur resources in support of possible exploration and development activities. The term does not include geological scientific research.
Geological information
means geological or geochemical data that have been analyzed, processed, or interpreted.
Geophysical data
means measurements that have not been processed or interpreted.
Geophysical exploration
means exploration that utilizes geophysical techniques (e.g., gravity, magnetic, electromagnetic, or seismic) to produce data and information on oil, gas, and sulphur resources in support of possible exploration and development activities. The term does not include geophysical scientific research.
Geophysical information
means geophysical data that have been processed or interpreted.
Governor
means the Governor of a State or the person or entity lawfully designated to exercise the powers granted to a Governor pursuant to the Act.
Human environment
means the physical, social, and economic components, conditions, and factors which interactively determine the state, condition, and quality of living conditions, employment, and health of those affected, directly or indirectly, by activities occurring on the OCS.
Hydrocarbon occurrence
means the direct or indirect detection during drilling operations of any liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons by examination of well cuttings, cores, gas detector readings, formation fluid tests, wireline logs, or by any other means. The term does not include background gas, minor accumulations of gas, or heavy oil residues on cuttings and cores.
Interpreted geological information
means knowledge, often in the form of schematic cross sections, 3-dimensional representations, and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of geological data and analyzed and processed geologic information.
Interpreted geophysical information
means knowledge, often in the form of seismic cross sections, 3-dimensional representations, and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of geophysical data and processed geophysical information.
Lease
means an agreement which is issued under section 8 or maintained under section 6 of the Act and which
authorizes exploration for, and development and production of, minerals or the area covered by that authorization, whichever is required by the context.
Lessee
means a person who has entered into, or is the BOEM approved assignee of, a lease with the United States to explore for, develop, and produce the leased minerals. The term “lessee” also includes an owner of operating rights.
Marine environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the quality of the marine ecosystem in the coastal zone and in the OCS.
Material remains
mean physical evidence of human habitation, occupation, use, or activity, including the site, location, or context in which such evidence is situated.
Minerals
mean oil, gas, sulphur, geopressured-geothermal and associated resources, and all other minerals which are authorized by an Act of Congress to be produced from public lands as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).
Notice
means a written statement of intent to conduct geological or geophysical scientific research related to oil, gas, and sulphur in the OCS other than under a permit.
Oil, gas, and sulphur
mean oil, gas, sulphur, geopressured-geothermal, and associated resources.
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)
means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301), and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Permit
means the contract or agreement, other than a lease, issued pursuant to this part, under which a person acquires the right to conduct on the OCS, in accordance with appropriate statutes, regulations, and stipulations:
(1) Geological exploration for mineral resources;
(2) Geophysical exploration for mineral resources;
(3) Geological scientific research; or
(4) Geophysical scientific research.
Permittee
means the person authorized by a permit issued pursuant to this part to conduct activities on the OCS.
Person
means a citizen or national of the United States; an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States as defined in section 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20); a private, public, or municipal corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any State or territory thereof; and associations of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens, or private, public, or municipal corporations, States, or political subdivisions of States or anyone operating in a manner provided for by treaty or other applicable international agreements. The term does not include Federal agencies.
Processed geological or geophysical information
means data collected under a permit and later processed or reprocessed. Processing involves changing the form of data so as to facilitate interpretation. Processing operations may include, but are not limited to, applying corrections for known perturbing causes, rearranging or filtering data, and combining or transforming data elements. Reprocessing is the additional processing other than ordinary processing used in the general course of evaluation. Reprocessing operations may include varying identified parameters for the detailed study of a specific problem area. Reprocessing may occur several years after the original processing date. Reprocessing is determined to be completed on the date that the reprocessed information is first available in a useable format for in-house interpretation by BOEM or the permittee, or becomes first available to third parties via sale, trade, license agreement, or other means.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or a subordinate authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.
Shallow test drilling
means drilling into the sea bottom to depths less than those specified in the definition of a deep stratigraphic test.
Significant archaeological resource
means those archaeological resources that meet the criteria of significance for eligibility to the National Register of Historic Places as defined in 36 CFR 60.4.
Third Party
means any person other than the permittee or a representative of the United States, including all persons who obtain data or information acquired under a permit from the permittee, or from another third party, by sale, trade, license agreement, or other means.
Violation
means a failure to comply with any provision of the Act, or a provision of a regulation or order issued under the Act, or any provision of a lease, license, or permit issued under the Act.
You
means a person who applies for and/or obtains a permit, or files a Notice to conduct geological or geophysical exploration or scientific research related to oil, gas, and sulphur in the OCS.
§ 251.2
[Reserved]
§ 251.3
Authority and applicability of this part.
BSEE authorizes you to conduct exploration or scientific research activities under this part in accordance with the Act, the regulations in this part, orders of the Director/Regional Director, and other applicable statutes, regulations, and amendments.
(a) This part does not apply to G
G exploration conducted by or on behalf of the lessee on a lease in the OCS. Refer to 30 CFR part 550 if you plan to conduct G
G activities related to oil, gas, or sulphur under terms of a lease.
(b) Federal agencies are exempt from the regulations in this part.
(c) G
G exploration or G
G scientific research related to minerals other than oil, gas, and sulphur is covered by regulations at 30 CFR part 580.
§§ 251.4-251.6
[Reserved]
§ 251.7
Test drilling activities under a permit.
(a) [Reserved]
(b)
Deep stratigraphic tests.
You must submit to the appropriate BOEM or BSEE Regional Director, at the address in 30 CFR 551.5(d) for BOEM or 30 CFR 254.7 for BSEE, a drilling plan (submitted to BOEM), an environmental report (submitted to BOEM), an Application for Permit to Drill (Form BSEE-0123) (submitted to BSEE), and a Supplemental APD Information Sheet (Form BSEE-0123S) (submitted to BSEE) as follows:
(1)
Drilling plan.
The drilling plan must include:
(i) The proposed type, sequence, and timetable of drilling activities;
(ii) A description of your drilling rig, indicating the important features with special attention to safety, pollution prevention, oil-spill containment and cleanup plans, and onshore disposal procedures;
(iii) The location of each deep stratigraphic test you will conduct, including the location of the surface and projected bottomhole of the borehole;
(iv) The types of geological and geophysical survey instruments you will use before and during drilling;
(v) Seismic, bathymetric, sidescan sonar, magnetometer, or other geophysical data and information sufficient to evaluate seafloor characteristics, shallow geologic hazards, and structural detail across and in the vicinity of the proposed test to the total depth of the proposed test well; and
(vi) Other relevant data and information that the BOEM Regional Director requires.
(2)
Environmental report.
The environmental report must include all of the following material:
(i) A summary with data and information available at the time you submitted the related drilling plan. BOEM will consider site-specific data and information developed since the most recent environmental impact statement or other environmental impact analysis in the immediate area. The summary must meet the following requirements:
(A) You must concentrate on the issues specific to the site(s) of drilling activity. However, you only need to summarize data and information discussed in any environmental reports, analyses, or impact statements prepared for the geographic area of the drilling activity.
(B) You must list referenced material. Include brief descriptions and a statement of where the material is available for inspection.
(C) You must refer only to data that are available to BOEM.
(ii) Details about your project such as:
(A) A list and description of new or unusual technologies;
(B) The location of travel routes for supplies and personnel;
(C) The kinds and approximate levels of energy sources;
(D) The environmental monitoring systems; and
(E) Suitable maps and diagrams showing details of the proposed project layout.
(iii) A description of the existing environment. For this section, you must include the following information on the area:
(A) Geology;
(B) Physical oceanography;
(C) Other uses of the area;
(D) Flora and fauna;
(E) Existing environmental monitoring systems; and
(F) Other unusual or unique characteristics that may affect or be affected by the drilling activities.
(iv) A description of the probable impacts of the proposed action on the environment and the measures you propose for mitigating these impacts.
(v) A description of any unavoidable or irreversible adverse effects on the environment that could occur.
(vi) Other relevant data that the BOEM Regional Director requires.
(3)
Copies for coastal States.
You must submit copies of the drilling plan and environmental report to the BOEM Regional Director for transmittal to the Governor of each affected coastal State and the coastal zone management agency of each affected coastal State that has an approved program under the Coastal Zone Management Act. (The BOEM Regional Director will make the drilling plan and environmental report available to appropriate Federal agencies and the public according to the Department of the Interior's policies and procedures).
(4)
Certification of coastal zone management program consistency and State concurrence.
When required under an approved coastal zone management program of an affected State, your drilling plan must include a certification that the proposed activities described in the plan comply with enforceable policies of, and will be conducted in a manner consistent with such State's program. The BOEM Regional Director may not approve any of the activities described in the drilling plan unless the State concurs with the consistency certification or the Secretary of Commerce makes the finding authorized by section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of the Coastal Zone Management Act.
(5)
Protecting archaeological resources.
If the BOEM Regional Director believes that an archaeological resource may exist in the area that may be affected by drilling, the BOEM Regional Director will notify you of the need to prepare an archaeological report under 30 CFR 551.7(b)(5).
(i) If the evidence suggests that an archaeological resource may be present, you must:
(A) Locate the site of the drilling so as to not adversely affect the area where the archaeological resources may be, or
(B) Establish to the satisfaction of the BOEM Regional Director that an archaeological resource does not exist or will not be adversely affected by drilling. This must be done by further archaeological investigation, conducted by an archaeologist and a geophysicist, using survey equipment and techniques deemed necessary by the Regional Director. A report on the investigation must be submitted to the BOEM Regional Director for review.
(ii) If the BOEM Regional Director determines that an archaeological resource is likely to be present in the area that may be affected by drilling, and may be adversely affected by drilling, the BOEM Regional Director will notify you immediately. You must take no action that may adversely affect the archaeological resource unless further investigations determine that the resource is not archaeologically significant.
(iii) If you discover any archaeological resource while drilling, you must immediately halt drilling and report the discovery to the BOEM Regional Director. If investigations determine that the resource is significant, the BOEM Regional Director will inform you how to protect it.
(6)
Application for permit to drill (APD).
Before commencing deep stratigraphic test drilling activities under an approved drilling plan, you must submit an APD and a Supplemental APD
Information Sheet (Forms BSEE-0123 and BSEE-0123S) and receive approval. You must comply with all regulations relating to drilling operations in 30 CFR part 250.
(7)
Revising an approved drilling plan.
Before you revise an approved drilling plan, you must obtain the BOEM Regional Director's approval.
(8)
After drilling.
When you complete the test activities, you must permanently plug and abandon the boreholes of all deep stratigraphic tests in compliance with 30 CFR part 250. If the tract on which you conducted a deep stratigraphic test is leased to another party for exploration and development, and if the lessee has not disturbed the borehole, BSEE will hold you and not the lessee responsible for problems associated with the test hole.
(9)
Deadline for completing a deep stratigraphic test.
If your deep stratigraphic test well is within 50 geographic miles of a tract that BOEM has identified for a future lease sale, as listed on the currently approved OCS leasing schedule, you must complete all drilling activities and submit the data and information to the BOEM Regional Director at least 60 days before the first day of the month in which BOEM schedules the lease sale. However, the BOEM Regional Director may extend your permit duration to allow you to complete drilling activities and submit data and information if the extension is in the National interest.
(c)-(d) [Reserved]
§§ 251.8-251.14
[Reserved]
§ 251.15
Authority for information collection.
The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this part under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned OMB control number 1014-0025 as it pertains to Application for Permit to Drill (APD, Form BSEE-0123), and Supplemental APD Information Sheet (Form BSEE-0123S). The title of this information collection is “30 CFR Part 250,
Application for Permit to Drill (APD, Revised APD) Supplemental APD Information Sheet, and all supporting documents.
”
[81 FR 36151, June 6, 2016]
Pt. 252

# PART 252—OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF (OCS) OIL AND GAS INFORMATION PROGRAM
Sec.
252.1
Purpose.
252.2
Definitions.
252.3
Oil and gas data and information to be provided for use in the OCS Oil and Gas Information Program.
252.4
Summary Report to affected States.
252.5
Information to be made available to affected States.
252.6
Freedom of Information Act requirements.
252.7
Privileged and proprietary data and information to be made available to affected States.

# Authority:
OCS Lands Act, 43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.,
as amended, 92 Stat. 629; Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552; § 252.3 also issued under Pub. L. 99-190 making continuing appropriations for Fiscal Year 1986, and for other purposes.

# Source:
76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the provisions of section 26 of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1352). This part supplements the procedures and requirements contained in 30 CFR parts 250, 251, 550, and 551 and provides procedures and requirements for the submission of oil and gas data and information resulting from exploration, development, and production operations on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) to the Director, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE). In addition, this part establishes procedures for the Director to make available certain information to the Governors of affected States and, upon request, to the executives of affected local governments in accordance with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act and the Act.
§ 252.2
Definitions.
When used in the regulations in this part, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Act
refers to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
).
Affected local government
means the principal governing body of a locality which is in an affected State and is
identified by the Governor of that State as a locality which will be significantly affected by oil and gas activities on the OCS.
Affected State
means, with respect to any program, plan, lease sale, or other activity, proposed, conducted, or approved pursuant to the provisions of the Act, any State:
(1) The laws of which are declared, pursuant to section 4(a)(2)(A) of the Act, to be the law of the United States for the portion of the OCS on which such activity is, or is proposed to be, conducted;
(2) Which is, or is proposed to be, directly connected by transportation facilities to any artificial island or installations and other devices permanently, or temporarily attached to the seabed;
(3) Which is receiving, or in accordance with the proposed activity will receive, oil for processing, refining, or transshipment which was extracted from the OCS and transported directly to such State by means of vessels or by a combination of means including vessels;
(4) Which is designated by the Director as a State in which there is a substantial probability of significant impact on or damage to the coastal, marine, or human environment, or a State in which there will be significant changes in the social, governmental, or economic infrastructure, resulting from the exploration, development, and production of oil and gas anywhere on the OCS; or
(5) In which the Director finds that because of such activity there is, or will be, a significant risk of serious damage, due to factors such as prevailing winds and currents, to the marine or coastal environment in the event of any oil spill, blowout, or release of oil or gas from vessels, pipelines, or other transshipment facilities.
Analyzed geological information
means data collected under a permit or a lease which have been analyzed. Analysis may include, but is not limited to, identification of lithologic and fossil content, core analyses, laboratory analyses of physical and chemical properties, logs or charts of electrical, radioactive, sonic, and other well logs, and descriptions of hydrocarbon shows or hazardous conditions.
Area adjacent to a State
means all of that portion of the OCS included within a planning area if such planning area is bordered by that State. The portion of the OCS in the Navarin Basin Planning Area is deemed to be adjacent to the State of Alaska. The States of New York and Rhode Island are deemed to be adjacent to both the Mid-Atlantic Planning Area and the North Atlantic Planning Area.
Data
means facts and statistics or samples which have not been analyzed or processed.
Development
means those activities which take place following discovery of oil or natural gas in paying quantities, including geophysical activity, drilling, platform construction, and operation of all onshore support facilities, and which are for the purpose of ultimately producing the oil and gas discovered.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) of the U.S. Department of the Interior or a designee of the Director.
Exploration
means the process of searching for oil and natural gas, including:
(1) Geophysical surveys where magnetic, gravity, seismic, or other systems are used to detect or imply the presence of such oil or natural gas, and
(2) Any drilling, whether on or off known geological structures, including the drilling of a well in which a discovery of oil or natural gas in paying quantities is made and the drilling of any additional delineation well after such discovery which is needed to delineate any reservoir and to enable the lessee to determine whether to proceed with development and production.
Governor
means the Governor of a State, or the person or entity designated by, or pursuant to, State law to exercise the powers granted to a Governor pursuant to the Act.
Information,
when used without a qualifying adjective, includes analyzed geological information, processed geophysical information, interpreted geological information, and interpreted geophysical information.
Interpreted geological information
means knowledge, often in the form of schematic cross sections and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of data and analyzed geological information.
Interpreted geophysical information
means knowledge, often in the form of schematic cross sections and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of geophysical data and processed geophysical information.
Lease
means any form of authorization which is issued under section 8 or maintained under section 6 of the Act and which authorizes exploration for, and development and production of, oil or natural gas, or the land covered by such authorization, whichever is required by the context.
Lessee
means the party authorized by a lease, or an approved assignment thereof, to explore for and develop and produce the leased deposits in accordance with the regulations in 30 CFR part 550, including all parties holding such authority by or through the lessee.
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)
means all submerged lands which lie seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in the Submerged Lands Act (67 Stat. 29) and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Permittee
means the party authorized by a permit issued pursuant to 30 CFR parts 251 and 551 to conduct activities on the OCS.
Processed geophysical information
means data collected under a permit or a lease which have been processed. Processing involves changing the form of data so as to facilitate interpretation. Processing operations may include, but are not limited to, applying corrections for known perturbing causes, rearranging or filtering data, and combining or transforming data elements.
Production
means those activities which take place after the successful completion of any means for the removal of oil or natural gas, including such removal, field operations, transfer of oil or natural gas to shore, operation monitoring, maintenance, and workover drilling.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or a designee of the Secretary.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36151, June 6, 2016]
§ 252.3
Oil and gas data and information to be provided for use in the OCS Oil and Gas Information Program.
(a) Any permittee or lessee engaging in the activities of exploration for, or development and production of, oil and gas on the OCS shall provide the Director access to all data and information obtained or developed as a result of such activities, including geological data, geophysical data, analyzed geological information, processed and reprocessed geophysical information, interpreted geophysical information, and interpreted geological information. Copies of these data and information and any interpretation of these data and information shall be provided to the Director upon request. No permittee or lessee submitting an interpretation of data or information, where such interpretation has been submitted in good faith, shall be held responsible for any consequence of the use of or reliance upon such interpretation.
(b)(1) Whenever a lessee or permittee provides any data or information, at the request of the Director and specifically for use in the OCS Oil and Gas Information Program in a form and manner of processing which is utilized by the lessee or permittee in the normal conduct of business, the Director shall pay the reasonable cost of reproducing the data and information if the lessee or permittee requests reimbursement. The cost shall be computed and paid in accordance with the applicable provisions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(2) Whenever a lessee or permittee provides any data or information, at the request of the Director and specifically for use in the OCS Oil and Gas Information Program, in a form and manner of processing not normally utilized by the lessee or permittee in the normal conduct of business, the Director shall pay the lessee or permittee, if the lessee or permittee requests reimbursement, the reasonable cost of processing and reproducing the requested data and information. The cost is to be computed and paid in accordance with
the applicable provisions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(c) Data or information requested by the Director shall be provided as soon as practicable, but not later than 30 days following receipt of the Director's request, unless, for good reason, the Director authorizes a longer time period for the submission of the requested data or information.
(d) The Director reserves the right to disclose any data or information acquired from a lessee or permittee to an independent contractor or agent for the purpose of reproducing, processing, reprocessing, or interpreting such data or information. When practicable, the Director shall notify the lessee(s) or permittee(s) who provided the data or information of the intent to disclose the data or information to an independent contractor or agent. The Director's notice of intent will afford the permittee(s) or lessee(s) a period of not less than 5 working days within which to comment on the intended action. When the Director so notifies a lessee or permittee of the intent to disclose data or information to an independent contractor or agent, all other owners of such data or information shall be deemed to have been notified of the Director's intent. Prior to any such disclosure, the contractor or agent shall be required to execute a written commitment not to disclose any data or information to anyone without the express consent of the Director, and not to make any disclosure or use of the data or information other than that provided in the contract. Contracts between BSEE and independent contractors shall be available to the lessee(s) or permittee(s) for inspection. In the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of data or information by the contractor or agent, or by an employee thereof, the responsible contractor or agent or employee thereof shall be liable for penalties pursuant to section 24 of the Act.
(e)(1) After delivery of data or information in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section and upon receipt of a request for reimbursement and a determination by the Director that the requested reimbursement is proper, the lessee or permittee shall be reimbursed for the cost of reproducing the data or information at the lessee's or permittee's lowest rate or at the lowest commercial rate established in the area, whichever is less. Requests for reimbursement must be made within 60 days of the delivery date of the data or information requested under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(2) After delivery of data or information in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, and upon receipt of a request for reimbursement and a determination by the Director that the requested reimbursement is proper, the lessee or permittee shall be reimbursed for the cost of processing or reprocessing and of reproducing the requested data or information. Requests for reimbursement must be made within 60 days of the delivery date of the data or information and shall be for only the costs attributable to processing or reprocessing and reproducing, as distinguished from the costs of data acquisition.
(3) Requests for reimbursement are to contain a breakdown of costs in sufficient detail to allow separation of reproduction, processing, and reprocessing costs from acquisition and other costs.
(f) Each Federal Department or Agency shall provide the Director with any data which it has obtained pursuant to section 11 of the Act and any other information which may be necessary or useful to assist the Director in carrying out the provisions of the Act.
§ 252.4
Summary Report to affected States.
(a) The Director, as soon as practicable after analysis, interpretation, and compilation of oil and gas data and information developed by BSEE or furnished by lessees, permittees, or other government agencies, shall make available to affected States and, upon request, to the executive of any affected local government, a Summary Report of data and information designed to assist them in planning for the onshore impacts of potential OCS oil and gas development and production. The Director shall consult with affected States and other interested parties to define the nature, scope, content, and timing of the Summary Report. The
Director may consult with affected States and other interested parties regarding subsequent revisions in the definition of the nature, scope, content, and timing of the Summary Report. The Summary Report shall not contain data or information which the Director determines is exempt from disclosure in accordance with this part. The Summary Report shall not contain data or information the release of which the Director determines would unduly damage the competitive position of the lessee or permittee who provided the data or information which the Director has processed, analyzed, or interpreted during the development of the Summary Report. The Summary Report shall include:
(1) Estimates of oil and gas reserves; estimates of the oil and gas resources that may be found within areas which the Secretary has leased or plans to offer for lease; and when available, projected rates and volumes of oil and gas to be produced from leased areas;
(2) Magnitude of the approximate projections and timing of development, if and when oil or gas, or both, is discovered;
(3) Methods of transportation to be used, including vessels and pipelines and approximate location of routes to be followed; and
(4) General location and nature of near-shore and onshore facilities expected to be utilized.
(b) When the Director determines that significant changes have occurred in the information contained in a Summary Report, the Director shall prepare and make available the new or revised information to each affected State, and, upon request, to the executive of any affected local government.
§ 252.5
Information to be made available to affected States.
(a) The BOEM Director shall prepare an index of OCS information (see 30 CFR 556.10). The index shall list all relevant actual or proposed programs, plans, reports, environmental impact statements, nominations information, environmental study reports, lease sale information, and any similar type of relevant information, including modifications, comments, and revisions prepared or directly obtained by the Director under the Act. The index shall be sent to affected States and, upon request, to any affected local government. The public shall be informed of the availability of the index.
(b) Upon request, the Director shall transmit to affected States, affected local governments, and the public a copy of any information listed in the index which is subject to the control of BOEM, in accordance with the requirements and subject to the limitations of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C.552) and implementing regulations. The Director shall not transmit or make available any information which he determines is exempt from disclosure in accordance with this part.
§ 252.6
Freedom of Information Act requirements.
(a) The Director shall make data and information available in accordance with the requirements and subject to the limitations of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the regulations contained in 43 CFR part 2 (Records and Testimony), the requirements of the Act, and the regulations contained in 30 CFR parts 250 and 550 (Oil and Gas and Sulphur Operations in the Outer Continental Shelf) and 30 CFR parts 251 and 551 (Geological and Geophysical Explorations of the Outer Continental Shelf).
(b) Except as provided in § 252.7 or in 30 CFR parts 250, 251, 550, and 551, no data or information determined by the Director to be exempt from public disclosure under paragraph (a) of this section shall be provided to any affected State or be made available to the executive of any affected local government or to the public unless the lessee, or the permittee and all persons to whom such permittee has sold such data or information under promise of confidentiality, agree to such action.
§ 252.7
Privileged and proprietary data and information to be made available to affected States.
(a)(1) The Governor of any affected State may designate an appropriate State official to inspect, at a regional location which the Director shall designate, any privileged or proprietary data or information received by the Director regarding any activity in an
area adjacent to such State, except that no such inspection shall take place prior to the sale of a lease covering the area in which such activity was conducted.
(2)(i) Except as provided for in 30 CFR 250.197, 30 CFR 550.197, and 30 CFR 551.14, no privileged or proprietary data or information will be transmitted to any affected State unless the lessee who provided the privileged or proprietary data or information agrees in writing to the transmittal of the data or information.
(ii) Except as provided for in 30 CFR 250.197, 30 CFR 550.197, and 30 CFR 551.14, no privileged or proprietary data or information will be transmitted to any affected State unless the permittee and all persons to whom the permittee has sold the data or information under promise of confidentiality agree in writing to the transmittal of the data or information.
(3) Knowledge obtained by a State official who inspects data or information under paragraph (a)(1) or who receives data or information under paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be subject to the requirements and limitations of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the regulations contained in 43 CFR part 2 (Records and Testimony), the Act (92 Stat. 629), the regulations contained in 30 CFR parts 250 and 550 (Oil and Gas and Sulphur Operations in the Outer Continental Shelf), the regulations contained in 30 CFR parts 251 and 551 (Geological and Geophysical Explorations of the Outer Continental Shelf), and the regulations contained in 30 CFR parts 252 and 552 (Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Information Program).
(4) Prior to the transmittal of any privileged or proprietary data or information to any State, or the grant of access to a State official to such data or information, the Secretary shall enter into a written agreement with the Governor of the State in accordance with section 26(e) of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1352). In that agreement the State shall agree, as a condition precedent to receiving or being granted access to such data or information to: (i) Protect and maintain the confidentiality of privileged or proprietary data and information in accordance with the laws and regulations listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(ii) Waive the defenses as set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(iii) Hold the United States harmless from any violations of the agreement to protect the confidentiality of privileged or proprietary data or information by the State or its employees or contractors.
(b)(1) Whenever any employee of the Federal Government or of any State reveals in violation of the Act or of the provisions of the regulations implementing the Act, privileged or proprietary data or information obtained pursuant to the regulations in this chapter, the lessee or permittee who supplied such information to the Director or any other Federal official, and any person to whom such lessee or permittee has sold such data or information under the promise of confidentiality, may commence a civil action for damages in the appropriate district court of the United States against the Federal Government or such State, as the case may be. Any Federal or State employee who is found guilty of failure to comply with any of the requirements of this section shall be subject to the penalties described in section 24 of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1350).
(2) In any action commenced against the Federal Government or a State pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Federal Government or such State, as the case may be, may not raise as a defense any claim of sovereign immunity, or any claim that the employee who revealed the privileged or proprietary data or information which is the basis of such suit was acting outside the scope of the person's employment in revealing such data or information.
(c) If the Director finds that any State cannot or does not comply with the conditions described in the agreement entered into pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the Director shall thereafter withhold transmittal and deny access for inspection of privileged or proprietary data or information to such State until the Director finds that such State can and will comply with those conditions.
PART 253 [RESERVED]
Pt. 254

# PART 254—OIL-SPILL RESPONSE REQUIREMENTS FOR FACILITIES LOCATED SEAWARD OF THE COAST LINE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
254.1
Who must submit an oil spill response plan (OSRP)?
254.2
When must I submit an OSRP?
254.3
May I cover more than one facility in my OSRP?
254.4
May I reference other documents in my OSRP?
254.5
General response plan requirements.
254.6
Definitions.
254.7
How do I submit my OSRP to the BSEE?
254.8
May I appeal decisions under this part?
254.9
Authority for information collection.

# Subpart B—Oil-Spill Response Plans for Outer Continental Shelf Facilities
254.20
Purpose.
254.21
How must I format my OSRP?
254.22
What information must I include in the “Introduction and OSRP contents” section?
254.23
What information must I include in the “Emergency response action plan” section?
254.24
What information must I include in the “Equipment inventory” appendix?
254.25
What information must I include in the “Contractual agreements” appendix?
254.26
What information must I include in the “Worst case discharge scenario” appendix?
254.27
What information must I include in the “Dispersant use plan” appendix?
254.28
What information must I include in the “In situ burning plan” appendix?
254.29
What information must I include in the “Training and drills” appendix?
254.30
When must I revise my OSRP?

# Subpart C—Related Requirements for Outer Continental Shelf Facilities
254.40
Records.
254.41
Training your response personnel.
254.42
Exercises for your response personnel and equipment.
254.43
Maintenance and periodic inspection of response equipment.
254.44
Calculating response equipment effective daily recovery capacities.
254.45
Verifying the capabilities of your response equipment.
254.46
Whom do I notify if an oil spill occurs?
254.47
Determining the volume of oil of your worst case discharge scenario.

# Subpart D—Oil-Spill Response Requirements for Facilities Located in State Waters Seaward of the Coast Line
254.50
Spill response plans for facilities located in State waters seaward of the coast line.
254.51
Modifying an existing OCS OSRP.
254.52
Following the format for an OCS OSRP.
254.53
Submitting an OSRP developed under State requirements.
254.54
Spill prevention for facilities located in State waters seaward of the coast line.
254.55
Spill response plans for facilities located in Alaska State waters seaward of the coast line in the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas.

# Subpart E—Oil-Spill Response Requirements for Facilities Located on the Arctic OCS
254.65
Purpose.
254.66-254.69
[Reserved]
254.70
What are the additional requirements for facilities conducting exploratory drilling from a MODU on the Arctic OCS?
254.71-254.79
[Reserved]
254.80
What additional information must I include in the “Emergency response action plan” section for facilities conducting exploratory drilling from a MODU on the Arctic OCS?
254.81-254.89
[Reserved]
254.90
What are the additional requirements for exercises of your response personnel and equipment for facilities conducting exploratory drilling from a MODU on the Arctic OCS?

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 1321.

# Source:
76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 254.1
Who must submit an oil spill response plan (OSRP)?
(a) If you are the owner or operator of an oil handling, storage, or transportation facility, and it is located seaward of the coast line, you must submit an oil spill response plan (OSRP) to BSEE for approval. Your OSRP must demonstrate that you can respond quickly and effectively whenever oil is discharged from your facility. Refer to § 254.6 for the definitions of
oil, facility,
and
coast line
if you have any doubts about whether to submit a plan.
(b) You must maintain a current OSRP for an abandoned facility until you physically remove or dismantle the facility or until the Chief, Oil Spill Preparedness Division (OSPD) notifies you in writing that a plan is no longer required.
(c) Owners or operators of offshore pipelines carrying essentially dry gas do not need to submit a plan. You must, however, submit a plan for a pipeline that carries:
(1) Oil;
(2) Condensate that has been injected into the pipeline; or
(3) Gas and naturally occurring condensate.
(d) If you are in doubt as to whether you must submit a plan for an offshore facility or pipeline, you should check with the Chief, OSPD.
(e) If your facility is located landward of the coast line, but you believe your facility is sufficiently similar to OCS facilities that it should be regulated by BSEE, you may contact the Chief, OSPD, offer to accept BSEE jurisdiction over your facility, and request that BSEE seek from the agency with jurisdiction over your facility a relinquishment of that jurisdiction.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36151, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.2
When must I submit an OSRP?
(a) You must submit, and BSEE must approve, an OSRP that covers each facility located seaward of the coast line before you may use that facility. To continue operations, you must operate the facility in compliance with the OSRP.
(b) Despite the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, you may operate your facility after you submit your OSRP while BSEE reviews it for approval. To operate a facility without an approved OSRP, you must certify in writing to the Chief, OSPD that you have the capability to respond, to the maximum extent practicable, to a worst case discharge or a substantial threat of such a discharge. The certification must show that you have ensured by contract, or other means approved by the Chief, OSPD, the availability of private personnel and equipment necessary to respond to the discharge. Verification from the organization(s) providing the personnel and equipment must accompany the certification. BSEE will not allow you to operate a facility for more than 2 years without an approved OSRP.
[81 FR 36151, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.3
May I cover more than one facility in my OSRP?
(a) Your OSRP may be for a single lease or facility or a group of leases or facilities. All the leases or facilities in your plan must have the same owner or operator (including affiliates) and must be located in the same BSEE Region (see definition of Regional OSRP in § 254.6).
(b) Regional OSRPs must address all the elements required for an OSRP in subpart B, or subpart D of this part, as appropriate.
(c) When developing a Regional OSRP, you may group leases or facilities subject to the approval of the Chief, OSPD, for the purposes of:
(1) Calculating response times;
(2) Determining quantities of response equipment;
(3) Conducting oil-spill trajectory analyses;
(4) Determining worst case discharge scenarios; and
(5) Identifying areas of special economic and environmental importance that may be impacted and the strategies for their protection.
(d) The Chief, OSPD, may specify how to address the elements of a Regional OSRP. The Chief, OSPD, also may require that Regional OSRPs contain additional information if necessary for compliance with appropriate laws and regulations.
[81 FR 36151, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.4
May I reference other documents in my OSRP?
You may reference information contained in other readily accessible documents in your OSRP. Examples of documents that you may reference are the National Contingency Plan (NCP), Area Contingency Plan (ACP), BSEE or BOEM environmental documents, and Oil Spill Removal Organization (OSRO) documents that are readily accessible to the Chief, OSPD. You must ensure that the Chief, OSPD, possesses or is
provided with copies of all OSRO documents you reference. You should contact the Chief, OSPD, if you want to know whether a reference is acceptable.
[81 FR 36152, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.5
General response plan requirements.
(a) The OSRP must provide for response to an oil spill from the facility. You must immediately carry out the provisions of the OSRP whenever there is a release of oil from the facility. You must also carry out the training, equipment testing, and periodic drills described in the OSRP, and these measures must be sufficient to ensure the safety of the facility and to mitigate or prevent a discharge or a substantial threat of a discharge.
(b) The OSRP must be consistent with the National Contingency Plan and the appropriate Area Contingency Plan(s).
(c) Nothing in this part relieves you from taking all appropriate actions necessary to immediately abate the source of a spill and remove any spills of oil.
(d) In addition to the requirements listed in this part, you must provide any other information the Chief, OSPD, requires for compliance with appropriate laws and regulations.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36152, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.6
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Adverse weather conditions
means, for the purposes of this part, weather conditions found in the operating area that make it difficult for response equipment and personnel to clean up or remove spilled oil or hazardous substances. These conditions include, but are not limited to: fog, inhospitable water and air temperatures, wind, sea ice, extreme cold, freezing spray, snow, currents, sea states, and extended periods of low light. Adverse weather conditions do not refer to conditions under which it would be dangerous or impossible to respond to a spill, such as a hurricane.
Arctic OCS
means the Beaufort Sea and Chukchi Sea Planning Areas (for more information on these areas,
see
the Proposed Final OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2012-2017 (June 2012) at
http://www.boem.gov/Oil-and-Gas-Energy-Program/Leasing/Five-Year-Program/2012-2017/Program-Area-Maps/index.aspx
).
Area Contingency Plan
means an Area Contingency Plan prepared and published under section 311(j) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA).
Chief, OSPD
means the Chief, BSEE Oil Spill Preparedness Division or designee.
Coast line
means the line of ordinary low water along that portion of the coast which is in direct contact with the open sea and the line marking the seaward limit of inland waters.
Discharge
means any emission (other than natural seepage), intentional or unintentional, and includes, but is not limited to, spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, or dumping.
District Manager
means the BSEE officer with authority and responsibility for a district within a BSEE Region.
Facility
means any structure, group of structures, equipment, or device (other than a vessel) which is used for one or more of the following purposes: Exploring for, drilling for, producing, storing, handling, transferring, processing, or transporting oil. The term excludes deep-water ports and their associated pipelines as defined by the Deepwater Port Act of 1974, but includes other pipelines used for one or more of these purposes. A mobile offshore drilling unit is classified as a facility when engaged in drilling or downhole operations.
Ice intervention practices
mean the equipment, vessels, and procedures used to increase oil encounter rates and the effectiveness of spill response techniques and equipment when sea ice is present.
Maximum extent practicable
means within the limitations of available technology, as well as the physical limitations of personnel, when responding to a worst case discharge in adverse weather conditions.
National Contingency Plan
means the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan prepared
and published under section 311(d) of the FWPCA, (33 U.S.C. 1321(d)) or revised under section 105 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9605).
National Contingency Plan Product Schedule
means a schedule of dispersants and other chemical or biological products, maintained by the Environmental Protection Agency, that may be authorized for use on oil discharges in accordance with the procedures found at 40 CFR 300.910.
Oil
means oil of any kind or in any form, including but not limited to petroleum, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse, and oil mixed with wastes other than dredged spoil. This also includes hydrocarbons produced at the wellhead in liquid form (includes distillates or condensate associated with produced natural gas), and condensate that has been separated from a gas prior to injection into a pipeline. It does not include petroleum, including crude oil or any fraction thereof, which is specifically listed or designated as a hazardous substance under paragraphs (A) through (F) of section 101(14) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601) and which is subject to the provisions of that Act. It also does not include animal fats and oils and greases and fish and marine mammal oils, within the meaning of paragraph (2) of section 61(a) of title 13, United States Code, and oils of vegetable origin, including oils from the seeds, nuts, and kernels referred to in paragraph (1)(A) of that section.
Oil spill removal organization (OSRO)
means an entity contracted by an owner or operator to provide spill-response equipment and/or manpower in the event of an oil or hazardous substance spill.
OSRP
means an Oil Spill Response Plan.
Outer Continental Shelf
means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301) and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Owner
or
operator
means, in the case of an offshore facility, any person owning or operating such offshore facility. In the case of any abandoned offshore facility, it means the person who owned such facility immediately prior to such abandonment.
Pipeline
means pipe and any associated equipment, appurtenance, or building used or intended for use in the transportation of oil located seaward of the coast line, except those used for deep-water ports. Pipelines do not include vessels such as barges or shuttle tankers used to transport oil from facilities located seaward of the coast line.
Qualified individual
means an English-speaking representative of an owner or operator, located in the United States, available on a 24-hour basis, with full authority to obligate funds, carry out removal actions, and communicate with the appropriate Federal officials and the persons providing personnel and equipment in removal operations.
Regional Response Plan
means a spill-response plan required by this part which covers multiple facilities or leases of an owner or operator, including affiliates, which are located in the same BSEE Region.
Regional Supervisor
means the BSEE official with responsibility and authority for operations or other designated program functions within a BSEE Region.
Remove
means containment and cleanup of oil from water and shorelines or the taking of other actions as may be necessary to minimize or mitigate damage to the public health or welfare, including, but not limited to, fish, shellfish, wildlife, public and private property, shorelines, and beaches.
Spill
is synonymous with “discharge” for the purposes of this part.
Spill management team
means the trained persons identified in an OSRP who staff the organizational structure to manage spill response.
Spill-response coordinator
means a trained person charged with the responsibility and designated the commensurate authority for directing and coordinating response operations.
Spill-response operating team
means the trained persons who respond to
spills through deployment and operation of oil-spill response equipment.
State waters located seaward of the coast line
means the belt of the seas measured from the coast line and extending seaward a distance of 3 miles (except the coast of Texas and the Gulf coast of Florida, where the State waters extend seaward a distance of 3 leagues).
You
means the owner or the operator as defined in this section.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36152, June 6, 2016; 81 FR 46563, July 15, 2016]
§ 254.7
How do I submit my OSRP to the BSEE?
You must submit the number of copies of your OSRP that the appropriate BSEE regional office requires. If you prefer to use improved information technology such as electronic filing to submit your plan, ask the Chief, OSPD, for further guidance.
(a) Send OSRPs for facilities located seaward of the coast line of Alaska to: Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Oil Spill Preparedness Division, Attention: Senior Analyst, 3801 Centerpoint Drive, Suite #500, Anchorage, AK 99503-5823.
(b) Send OSRPs for facilities in the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Ocean to: Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Oil Spill Preparedness Division, Attention: GOM Section Supervisor, 1201 Elmwood Park Boulevard, New Orleans, LA 70123-2394.
(c) Send OSRPs for facilities in the Pacific Ocean (except seaward of the coast line of Alaska) to: Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Oil Spill Preparedness Division, Attention: Senior Analyst, 760 Paseo Camarillo, Suite 201, Camarillo, CA 93010-6002.
[81 FR 36152, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.8
May I appeal decisions under this part?
See 30 CFR part 290 for instructions on how to appeal any order or decision that we issue under this part.
§ 254.9
Authority for information collection.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection requirements in this part under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
OMB assigned the control number 1014-0007. The title of this information collection is “30 CFR part 254, Oil Spill Response Requirements for Facilities Located Seaward of the Coast line.”
(b) BSEE collects this information to ensure that the owner or operator of an offshore facility is prepared to respond to an oil spill. BSEE uses the information to verify compliance with the mandates of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA). The requirement to submit this information is mandatory. No confidential or proprietary information is collected.
(c) An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
(d) Send comments regarding any aspect of the collection of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36152, June 6, 2016]

# Subpart B—Oil-Spill Response Plans for Outer Continental Shelf Facilities
§ 254.20
Purpose.
This subpart describes the requirements for preparing OSRPs for facilities located on the OCS.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36152, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.21
How must I format my OSRP?
(a) You must divide your OSRP for OCS facilities into the sections specified in paragraph (b) of this section and explained in the other sections of this subpart. The OSRP must have an easily found marker identifying each section. You may use an alternate format if you include a cross reference table to identify the location of required sections. You may use alternate contents if you can demonstrate to the Chief, OSPD that they provide for equal or greater levels of preparedness.
(b) Your OSRP must include:
(1) Introduction and OSRP contents.
(2) Emergency response action plan.
(3) Appendices:
(i) Equipment inventory.
(ii) Contractual agreements.
(iii) Worst case discharge scenario.
(iv) Dispersant use plan.
(v) In situ burning plan.
(vi) Training and drills.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36152, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.22
What information must I include in the “Introduction and OSRP contents” section?
The “Introduction and OSRP contents” section must provide:
(a) Identification of the facility the OSRP covers, including its location and type;
(b) A table of contents;
(c) A record of changes made to the OSRP; and
(d) A cross-reference table, if needed, because you are using an alternate format for your OSRP.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36152, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.23
What information must I include in the “Emergency response action plan” section?
The “Emergency response action plan” section is the core of the OSRP. Put information in easy-to-use formats such as flow charts or tables where appropriate. This section must include:
(a) Designation, by name or position, of a trained qualified individual (QI) who has full authority to implement removal actions and ensure immediate notification of appropriate Federal officials and response personnel.
(b) Designation, by name or position, of a trained spill management team available on a 24-hour basis. The team must include a trained spill-response coordinator and alternate(s) who have the responsibility and authority to direct and coordinate response operations on your behalf. You must describe the team's organizational structure as well as the responsibilities and authorities of each position on the spill management team.
(c) Description of a spill-response operating team. Team members must be trained and available on a 24-hour basis to deploy and operate spill-response equipment. They must be able to respond within a reasonable minimum specified time. You must include the number and types of personnel available from each identified labor source.
(d) A planned location for a spill-response operations center and provisions for primary and alternate communications systems available for use in coordinating and directing spill-response operations. You must provide telephone numbers for the response operations center. You also must provide any facsimile numbers and primary and secondary radio frequencies that will be used.
(e) A listing of the types and characteristics of the oil handled, stored, or transported at the facility.
(f) Procedures for the early detection of a spill.
(g) Identification of procedures you will follow in the event of a spill or a substantial threat of a spill. The procedures should show appropriate response levels for differing spill sizes including those resulting from a fire or explosion. These will include, as appropriate:
(1) Your procedures for spill notification. The plan must provide for the use of the oil spill reporting forms included in the Area Contingency Plan or an equivalent reporting form.
(i) Your procedures must include a current list which identifies the following by name or position, corporate address, and telephone number (including facsimile number if applicable):
(A) The qualified individual;
(B) The spill-response coordinator and alternate(s); and
(C) Other spill-response management team members.
(ii) You must also provide names, telephone numbers, and addresses for the following:
(A) OSRO's that the plan cites;
(B) Federal, State, and local regulatory agencies that you must consult to obtain site specific environmental information; and
(C) Federal, State, and local regulatory agencies that you must notify when an oil spill occurs.
(2) Your methods to monitor and predict spill movement;
(3) Your methods to identify and prioritize the beaches, waterfowl, other marine and shoreline resources, and areas of special economic and environmental importance;
(4) Your methods to protect beaches, waterfowl, other marine and shoreline resources, and areas of special economic or environmental importance;
(5) Your methods to ensure that containment and recovery equipment as well as the response personnel are mobilized and deployed at the spill site;
(6) Your methods to ensure that devices for the storage of recovered oil are sufficient to allow containment and recovery operations to continue without interruption;
(7) Your procedures to remove oil and oiled debris from shallow waters and along shorelines and rehabilitating waterfowl which become oiled;
(8) Your procedures to store, transfer, and dispose of recovered oil and oil-contaminated materials and to ensure that all disposal is in accordance with Federal, State, and local requirements; and
(9) Your methods to implement your dispersant use plan and your in situ burning plan.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36152, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.24
What information must I include in the “Equipment inventory” appendix?
Your “Equipment inventory appendix” must include:
(a) An inventory of spill-response materials and supplies, services, equipment, and response vessels available locally and regionally. You must identify each supplier and provide their locations and telephone numbers.
(b) A description of the procedures for inspecting and maintaining spill-response equipment in accordance with § 254.43.
§ 254.25
What information must I include in the “Contractual agreements” appendix?
Your “Contractual agreements” appendix must furnish proof of any contracts or membership agreements with OSRO's, cooperatives, spill-response service providers, or spill management team members who are not your employees that you cite in the OSRP. To provide this proof, submit copies of the contracts or membership agreements or certify that contracts or membership agreements are in effect. The contract or membership agreement must include provisions for ensuring the availability of the personnel and/or equipment on a 24-hour-per-day basis.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36152, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.26
What information must I include in the “Worst case discharge scenario” appendix?
The discussion of your worst case discharge scenario must include all of the following elements:
(a) The volume of your worst case discharge scenario determined using the criteria in § 254.47. Provide any assumptions made and the supporting calculations used to determine this volume.
(b) An appropriate trajectory analysis specific to the area in which the facility is located. The analysis must identify onshore and offshore areas that a discharge potentially could affect. The trajectory analysis chosen must reflect the maximum distance from the facility that oil could move in a time period that it reasonably could be expected to persist in the environment.
(c) A list of the resources of special economic or environmental importance that potentially could be impacted in the areas identified by your trajectory analysis. You also must state the strategies that you will use for their protection. At a minimum, this list must include those resources of special economic and environmental importance, if any, specified in the appropriate Area Contingency Plan(s).
(d) A discussion of your response to your worst case discharge scenario in adverse weather conditions. This discussion must include:
(1) A description of the response equipment that you will use to contain and recover the discharge to the maximum extent practicable. This description must include the types, location(s) and owner, quantity, and capabilities of the equipment. You also must include the effective daily recovery capacities, where applicable. You must
calculate the effective daily recovery capacities using the methods described in § 254.44. For operations at a drilling or production facility, your scenario must show how you will cope with the initial spill volume upon arrival at the scene and then support operations for a blowout lasting 30 days.
(2) A description of the personnel, materials, and support vessels that would be necessary to ensure that the identified response equipment is deployed and operated promptly and effectively. Your description must include the location and owner of these resources as well as the quantities and types (if applicable);
(3) A description of your oil storage, transfer, and disposal equipment. Your description must include the types, location and owner, quantity, and capacities of the equipment; and
(4) An estimation of the individual times needed for:
(i) Procurement of the identified containment, recovery, and storage equipment;
(ii) Procurement of equipment transportation vessel(s);
(iii) Procurement of personnel to load and operate the equipment;
(iv) Equipment loadout (transfer of equipment to transportation vessel(s));
(v) Travel to the deployment site (including any time required for travel from an equipment storage area); and
(vi) Equipment deployment.
(e) In preparing the discussion required by paragraph (d) of this section, you must:
(1) Ensure that the response equipment, materials, support vessels, and strategies listed are suitable, within the limits of current technology, for the range of environmental conditions anticipated at your facility; and
(2) Use standardized, defined terms to describe the range of environmental conditions anticipated and the capabilities of response equipment. Examples of acceptable terms include those defined in American Society for Testing of Materials (ASTM) publication F625-94,
Standard Practice for Describing Environmental Conditions Relevant to Spill Control Systems for Use on Water,
and ASTM F818-93,
Standard Definitions Relating to Spill Response Barriers.
§ 254.27
What information must I include in the “Dispersant use plan” appendix?
Your dispersant use plan must be consistent with the National Contingency Plan Product Schedule and other provisions of the National Contingency Plan and the appropriate Area Contingency Plan(s). The plan must include:
(a) An inventory and a location of the dispersants and other chemical or biological products which you might use on the oils handled, stored, or transported at the facility;
(b) A summary of toxicity data for these products;
(c) A description and a location of any application equipment required as well as an estimate of the time to commence application after approval is obtained;
(d) A discussion of the application procedures;
(e) A discussion of the conditions under which product use may be requested; and
(f) An outline of the procedures you must follow in obtaining approval for product use.
§ 254.28
What information must I include in the “In situ burning plan” appendix?
Your in situ burning plan must be consistent with any guidelines authorized by the National Contingency Plan and the appropriate Area Contingency Plan(s). Your in situ burning plan must include:
(a) A description of the in situ burn equipment including its availability, location, and owner;
(b) A discussion of your in situ burning procedures, including provisions for ignition of an oil spill;
(c) A discussion of environmental effects of an in situ burn;
(d) Your guidelines for well control and safety of personnel and property;
(e) A discussion of the circumstances in which in situ burning may be appropriate;
(f) Your guidelines for making the decision to ignite; and
(g) An outline of the procedures you must follow to obtain approval for an in situ burn.
§ 254.29
What information must I include in the “Training and drills” appendix?
Your “Training and drills” appendix must:
(a) Identify and include the dates of the training provided to members of the spill-response management team and the qualified individual. The types of training given to the members of the spill-response operating team also must be described. The training requirements for your spill management team and your spill-response operating team are specified in § 254.41. You must designate a location where you keep course completion certificates or attendance records for this training.
(b) Describe in detail your plans for satisfying the exercise requirements of § 254.42. You must designate a location where you keep the records of these exercises.
§ 254.30
When must I revise my OSRP?
(a) You must review your OSRP at least every 2 years and submit all resulting modifications to the Chief, OSPD. If this review does not result in modifications, you must inform the Chief, OSPD, in writing that there are no changes.
(b) You must submit revisions to your OSRP for approval within 15 days whenever:
(1) A change occurs which significantly reduces your response capabilities;
(2) A significant change occurs in the worst case discharge scenario or in the type of oil being handled, stored, or transported at the facility;
(3) There is a change in the name(s) or capabilities of the oil spill removal organizations cited in the OSRP; or
(4) There is a significant change to the Area Contingency Plan(s).
(c) The Chief, OSPD, may require that you resubmit your OSRP if the OSRP has become outdated or if numerous revisions have made its use difficult.
(d) The Chief, OSPD, will periodically review the equipment inventories of OSRO's to ensure that sufficient spill removal equipment is available to meet the cumulative needs of the owners and operators who cite these organizations in their OSRPs.
(e) The Chief, OSPD, may require you to revise your OSRP if significant inadequacies are indicated by:
(1) Periodic reviews (described in paragraph (d) of this section);
(2) Information obtained during drills or actual spill responses; or
(3) Other relevant information the Chief, OSPD, obtained.
[81 FR 36152, June 6, 2016]

# Subpart C—Related Requirements for Outer Continental Shelf Facilities
§ 254.40
Records.
You must make all records of services, personnel, and equipment provided by OSRO's or cooperatives available to any authorized BSEE representative upon request.
§ 254.41
Training your response personnel.
(a) You must ensure that the members of your spill-response operating team who are responsible for operating response equipment attend hands-on training classes at least annually. This training must include the deployment and operation of the response equipment they will use. Those responsible for supervising the team must be trained annually in directing the deployment and use of the response equipment.
(b) You must ensure that the spill-response management team, including the spill-response coordinator and alternates, receives annual training. This training must include instruction on:
(1) Locations, intended use, deployment strategies, and the operational and logistical requirements of response equipment;
(2) Spill reporting procedures;
(3) Oil-spill trajectory analysis and predicting spill movement; and
(4) Any other responsibilities the spill management team may have.
(c) You must ensure that the qualified individual is sufficiently trained to perform his or her duties.
(d) You must keep all training certificates and training attendance records at the location designated in your OSRP for at least 2 years. They
must be made available to any authorized BSEE representative upon request.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.42
Exercises for your response personnel and equipment.
(a) You must exercise your entire OSRP at least once every 3 years (triennial exercise). You may satisfy this requirement by conducting separate exercises for individual parts of the OSRP over the 3-year period; you do not have to exercise your entire OSRP at one time.
(b) In satisfying the triennial exercise requirement, you must, at a minimum, conduct:
(1) An annual spill management team tabletop exercise. The exercise must test the spill management team's organization, communication, and decision making in managing a response. You must not reveal the spill scenario to team members before the exercise starts.
(2) An annual deployment exercise of response equipment identified in your OSRP that is staged at onshore locations. You must deploy and operate each type of equipment in each triennial period. However, it is not necessary to deploy and operate each individual piece of equipment.
(3) An annual notification exercise for each facility that is manned on a 24- hour basis. The exercise must test the ability of facility personnel to communicate pertinent information in a timely manner to the qualified individual.
(4) A semiannual deployment exercise of any response equipment which the BSEE Regional Supervisor requires an owner or operator to maintain at the facility or on dedicated vessels. You must deploy and operate each type of this equipment at least once each year. Each type need not be deployed and operated at each exercise.
(c) During your exercises, you must simulate conditions in the area of operations, including seasonal weather variations, to the extent practicable. The exercises must cover a range of scenarios over the 3-year exercise period, simulating responses to large continuous spills, spills of short duration and limited volume, and your worst case discharge scenario.
(d) BSEE will recognize and give credit for any documented exercise conducted that satisfies some part of the required triennial exercise. You will receive this credit whether the owner or operator, an OSRO, or a Government regulatory agency initiates the exercise. BSEE will give you credit for an actual spill response if you evaluate the response and generate a proper record. Exercise documentation should include the following information:
(1) Type of exercise;
(2) Date and time of the exercise;
(3) Description of the exercise;
(4) Objectives met; and
(5) Lessons learned.
(e) All records of spill-response exercises must be maintained for the complete 3-year exercise cycle. Records should be maintained at the facility or at a corporate location designated in the OSRP. Records showing that OSROs and oil spill removal cooperatives have deployed each type of equipment also must be maintained for the 3-year cycle.
(f) You must inform the Chief, OSPD of the date of any exercise required by paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (4) of this section at least 30 days before the exercise. This will allow BSEE personnel the opportunity to witness any exercises.
(g) The Regional Supervisor periodically will initiate unannounced drills to test the spill response preparedness of owners and operators.
(h) The Chief, OSPD may require changes in the frequency or location of the required exercises, equipment to be deployed and operated, or deployment procedures or strategies. The Chief, OSPD may evaluate the results of the exercises and advise the owner or operator of any needed changes in response equipment, procedures, or strategies.
(i) Compliance with the National Preparedness for Response Exercise Program (PREP) Guidelines will satisfy the exercise requirements of this section. Copies of the PREP document may be obtained from the Chief, OSPD.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.43
Maintenance and periodic inspection of response equipment.
(a) You must ensure that the response equipment listed in your OSRP is inspected at least monthly and is maintained, as necessary, to ensure optimal performance.
(b) You must ensure that records of the inspections and the maintenance activities are kept for at least 2 years and are made available to any authorized BSEE representative upon request.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.44
Calculating response equipment effective daily recovery capacities.
(a) You are required by § 254.26(d)(1) to calculate the effective daily recovery capacity of the response equipment identified in your OSRP that you would use to contain and recover your worst case discharge. You must calculate the effective daily recovery capacity of the equipment by multiplying the manufacturer's rated throughput capacity over a 24-hour period by 20 percent. This 20 percent efficiency factor takes into account the limitations of the recovery operations due to available daylight, sea state, temperature, viscosity, and emulsification of the oil being recovered. You must use this calculated rate to determine if you have sufficient recovery capacity to respond to your worst case discharge scenario.
(b) If you want to use a different efficiency factor for specific oil recovery devices, you must submit evidence to substantiate that efficiency factor. Adequate evidence includes verified performance data measured during actual spills or test data gathered according to the provisions of § 254.45(b) and (c).
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.45
Verifying the capabilities of your response equipment.
(a) The Regional Supervisor may require performance testing of any spill-response equipment listed in your OSRP to verify its capabilities if the equipment:
(1) Has been modified;
(2) Has been damaged and repaired; or
(3) Has a claimed effective daily recovery capacity that is inconsistent with data otherwise available to BSEE.
(b) You must conduct any required performance testing of booms in accordance with BSEE-approved test criteria. You may use the document “Test Protocol for the Evaluation of Oil-Spill Containment Booms,” available from BSEE, for guidance. Performance testing of skimmers also must be conducted in accordance with BSEE approved test criteria. You may use the document “Suggested Test Protocol for the Evaluation of Oil Spill Skimmers for the OCS,” available from BSEE, for guidance.
(c) You are responsible for any required testing of equipment performance and for the accuracy of the information submitted.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.46
Whom do I notify if an oil spill occurs?
(a) You must immediately notify the National Response Center (1-800-424-8802) if you observe:
(1) An oil spill from your facility;
(2) An oil spill from another offshore facility; or
(3) An offshore spill of unknown origin.
(b) In the event of a spill of 1 barrel or more from your facility, you must orally notify the Regional Supervisor without delay. You also must report spills from your facility of unknown size but thought to be 1 barrel or more.
(1) If a spill from your facility not originally reported to the Regional Supervisor is subsequently found to be 1 barrel or more, you must then report it without delay.
(2) You must file a written follow up report for any spill from your facility of 1 barrel or more. The Chief, OSPD must receive this confirmation within 15 days after the spillage has been stopped. All reports must include the cause, location, volume, and remedial action taken. Reports of spills of more than 50 barrels must include information on the sea state, meteorological conditions, and the size and appearance of the slick. The Regional Supervisor may require additional information if
it is determined that an analysis of the response is necessary.
(c) If you observe a spill resulting from operations at another offshore facility, you must immediately notify the responsible party and the Regional Supervisor.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.47
Determining the volume of oil of your worst case discharge scenario.
You must calculate the volume of oil of your worst case discharge scenario as follows:
(a) For an oil production platform facility, the size of your worst case discharge scenario is the sum of the following:
(1) The maximum capacity of all oil storage tanks and flow lines on the facility. Flow line volume may be estimated; and
(2) The volume of oil calculated to leak from a break in any pipelines connected to the facility considering shutdown time, the effect of hydrostatic pressure, gravity, frictional wall forces and other factors; and
(3) The daily production volume from an uncontrolled blowout of the highest capacity well associated with the facility. In determining the daily discharge rate, you must consider reservoir characteristics, casing/production tubing sizes, and historical production and reservoir pressure data. Your scenario must discuss how to respond to this well flowing for 30 days as required by § 254.26(d)(1).
(b) For exploratory or development drilling operations, the size of your worst case discharge scenario is the daily volume possible from an uncontrolled blowout. In determining the daily discharge rate, you must consider any known reservoir characteristics. If reservoir characteristics are unknown, you must consider the characteristics of any analog reservoirs from the area and give an explanation for the selection of the reservoir(s) used. Your scenario must discuss how to respond to this well flowing for 30 days as required by § 254.26(d)(1).
(c) For a pipeline facility, the size of your worst case discharge scenario is the volume possible from a pipeline break. You must calculate this volume as follows:
(1) Add the pipeline system leak detection time to the shutdown response time.
(2) Multiply the time calculated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section by the highest measured oil flow rate over the preceding 12-month period. For new pipelines, you should use the predicted oil flow rate in the calculation.
(3) Add to the volume calculated in paragraph (c)(2) of this section the total volume of oil that would leak from the pipeline after it is shut in. Calculate this volume by taking into account the effects of hydrostatic pressure, gravity, frictional wall forces, length of pipeline segment, tie-ins with other pipelines, and other factors.
(d) If your facility which stores, handles, transfers, processes, or transports oil does not fall into the categories listed in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, contact the Chief, OSPD for instructions on the calculation of the volume of your worst case discharge scenario.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]

# Subpart D—Oil-Spill Response Requirements for Facilities Located in State Waters Seaward of the Coast Line
§ 254.50
Spill response plans for facilities located in State waters seaward of the coast line.
Owners or operators of facilities located in State waters seaward of the coast line must submit a spill-response plan to BSEE for approval. You may choose one of three methods to comply with this requirement. The three methods are described in §§ 254.51, 254.52, and 254.53.
§ 254.51
Modifying an existing OCS OSRP.
You may modify an existing response plan covering a lease or facility on the OCS to include a lease or facility in State waters located seaward of the coast line. Since this OSRP would cover more than one lease or facility, it would be considered a Regional Response Plan. You should refer to § 254.3
and contact the appropriate regional BSEE office if you have any questions on how to prepare this Regional Response Plan.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.52
Following the format for an OCS OSRP.
You may develop a response OSRP following the requirements for plans for OCS facilities found in subpart B of this part.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.53
Submitting an OSRP developed under State requirements.
(a) You may submit a response plan to BSEE for approval that you developed in accordance with the laws or regulations of the appropriate State. The OSRP must contain all the elements the State and OPA require and must:
(1) Be consistent with the requirements of the National Contingency Plan and appropriate Area Contingency Plan(s).
(2) Identify a qualified individual and require immediate communication between that person and appropriate Federal officials and response personnel if there is a spill.
(3) Identify any private personnel and equipment necessary to remove, to the maximum extent practicable, a worst case discharge as defined in § 254.47. The plan must provide proof of contractual services or other evidence of a contractual agreement with any OSRO's or spill management team members who are not employees of the owner or operator.
(4) Describe the training, equipment testing, periodic unannounced drills, and response actions of personnel at the facility. These must ensure both the safety of the facility and the mitigation or prevention of a discharge or the substantial threat of a discharge.
(5) Describe the procedures you will use to periodically update and resubmit the plan for approval of each significant change.
(b) Your plan developed under State requirements also must include the following information:
(1) A list of the facilities and leases the plan covers and a map showing their location;
(2) A list of the types of oil handled, stored, or transported at the facility;
(3) Name and address of the State agency to whom the plan was submitted;
(4) Date you submitted the plan to the State;
(5) If the plan received formal approval, the name of the approving organization, the date of approval, and a copy of the State agency's approval letter if one was issued; and
(6) Identification of any regulations or standards used in preparing the plan.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.54
Spill prevention for facilities located in State waters seaward of the coast line.
In addition to your OSRP, you must submit to the Chief, OSPD, a description of the steps you are taking to prevent spills of oil or mitigate a substantial threat of such a discharge. You must identify all State or Federal safety or pollution prevention requirements that apply to the prevention of oil spills from your facility, and demonstrate your compliance with these requirements. You also should include a description of industry safety and pollution prevention standards your facility meets. The Chief, OSPD may prescribe additional equipment or procedures for spill prevention if it is determined that your efforts to prevent spills do not reflect good industry practices.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 254.55
Spill response plans for facilities located in Alaska State waters seaward of the coast line in the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas.
Response plans for facilities conducting exploratory drilling operations from a MODU seaward of the coast line in Alaska State waters in the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas must follow the requirements contained within subpart E of this part, in addition to the other requirements of this subpart. Such response plans must address how the
source control procedures selected to comply with State law will be integrated into the planning, training, and exercise requirements of §§ 254.70(a), 254.90(a), and 254.90(c), in the event that the proposed operations do not incorporate the capping stack, cap and flow system, containment dome, and/or other similar subsea and surface devices and equipment and vessels referenced in those sections.
[81 FR 46563, July 15, 2016]

# Subpart E—Oil-Spill Response Requirements for Facilities Located on the Arctic OCS

# Source:
81 FR 46564, July 15, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 254.65
Purpose.
This subpart describes the additional requirements for preparing OSRPs and maintaining oil spill preparedness for facilities conducting exploratory drilling operations from a mobile offshore drilling unit (MODU) on the Arctic OCS.
§§ 254.66-254.69
[Reserved]
§ 254.70
What are the additional requirements for facilities conducting exploratory drilling from a MODU on the Arctic OCS?
In addition to meeting the applicable requirements of this part, your OSRP must:
(a) Describe how the relevant personnel, equipment, materials, and support vessels associated with the capping stack, cap and flow system, containment dome, and other similar subsea and surface devices and equipment and vessels will be integrated into oil spill response incident action planning;
(b) Describe how you will address human factors, such as cold stress and cold related conditions, associated with oil spill response activities in adverse weather conditions and their impacts on decision-making and health and safety; and
(c) Undergo plan-holder review prior to handling, storing, or transporting oil in connection with seasonal exploratory drilling activities, and all resulting modifications must be submitted to the Regional Supervisor. If this review does not result in modifications, you must inform the Regional Supervisor in writing that there are no changes. The requirements of this paragraph (c) are in lieu of the requirements in § 254.30(a).
§§ 254.71-254.79
[Reserved]
§ 254.80
What additional information must I include in the “Emergency response action plan” section for facilities conducting exploratory drilling from a MODU on the Arctic OCS?
In addition to the requirements in § 254.23, you must include the following information in the emergency response action plan section of your OSRP:
(a) A description of your ice intervention practices and how they will improve the effectiveness of the oil spill response options and strategies that are listed in your OSRP in the presence of sea ice. When developing the ice intervention practices for your OSRP, you must consider, at a minimum, the use of specialized tactics, modified response equipment, ice management assist vessels, and technologies for the identification, tracking, containment and removal of oil in ice.
(b) On areas of the Arctic OCS where a planned shore-based response would not satisfy § 254.1(a):
(1) A list of all resources required to ensure an effective offshore-based response capable of operating in adverse weather conditions. This list must include a description of how you will ensure the shortest possible transit times, including but not limited to establishing an offshore resource management capability (e.g., sea-based staging, maintenance, and berthing logistics); and
(2) A list and description of logistics resupply chains, including waste management, that effectively factor in the remote and limited infrastructure that exists in the Arctic and ensure you can adequately sustain all oil spill response activities for the duration of the response. The components of the logistics supply chain include, but are not limited to:
(i) Personnel and equipment transport services;
(ii) Airfields and types of aircraft that can be supported;
(iii) Capabilities to mobilize supplies (e.g., response equipment, fuel, food, fresh water) and personnel to the response sites;
(iv) Onshore staging areas, storage areas that may be used en-route to staging areas, and camp facilities to support response personnel conducting offshore, nearshore and shoreline response; and
(v) Management of recovered fluid and contaminated debris and response materials (e.g., oiled sorbents), as well as waste streams generated at offshore and on-shore support facilities (e.g., sewage, food, and medical).
(c) A description of the system you will use to maintain real-time location tracking for all response resources while operating, transiting, or staging/maintaining such resources during a spill response.
§§ 254.81-254.89
[Reserved]
§ 254.90
What are the additional requirements for exercises of your response personnel and equipment for facilities conducting exploratory drilling from a MODU on the Arctic OCS?
In addition to the requirements in § 254.42, the following requirements apply to exercises for your response personnel and equipment for facilities conducting exploratory drilling from a MODU on the Arctic OCS:
(a) You must incorporate the personnel, materials, and equipment identified in § 254.70(a), the safe working practices identified in § 254.70(b), the ice intervention practices described in § 254.80(a), the offshore-based response requirements in § 254.80(b), and the resource tracking requirements in § 254.80(c) into your spill-response training and exercise activities.
(b) For each season in which you plan to conduct exploratory drilling operations from a MODU on the Arctic OCS, you must notify the Regional Supervisor 60 days prior to handling, storing, or transporting oil.
(c) After the Regional Supervisor receives notice pursuant to § 254.90(b), the Regional Supervisor may direct you to deploy and operate your spill response equipment and/or your capping stack, cap and flow system, and containment dome, and other similar subsea and surface devices and equipment and vessels, as part of announced or unannounced exercises or compliance inspections. For the purposes of this section, spill response equipment does not include the use of blowout preventers, diverters, heavy weight mud to kill the well, relief wells, or other similar conventional well control options.
Pt. 256

# PART 256—LEASING OF SULPHUR OR OIL AND GAS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF

# Subpart A—Outer Continental Shelf Oil, Gas, and Sulphur Management, General
Sec.
256.1
Purpose.
256.7
Cross references.
256.8-256.12
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Assignments, Transfers, and Extensions
256.70
Extension of lease by drilling or well reworking operations.
256.71
Directional drilling.
256.72
Compensatory payments as production.
256.73
Effect of suspensions on lease term.

# Subpart C—Termination of Leases
256.77
Cancellation of leases.

# Subpart D—Section 6 Leases
256.79
Effect of regulations on lease.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 9701, 42 U.S.C. 6213, 43 U.S.C. 1334, Pub. L. 109-432.

# Source:
76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Outer Continental Shelf Oil, Gas, and Sulphur Management, General
§ 256.1
Purpose.
The purpose of the regulations in 30 CFR part 256 is to establish the procedures under which the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) will exercise the authority to administer a leasing program for oil, gas and sulphur. The procedures under which the Secretary will exercise the authority to administer a program to grant rights-of-way, are addressed in part 250, subpart J.
§ 256.7
Cross references.
(a) For Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) regulations governing exploration, development and production on leases, see 30 CFR parts 250 and 270.
(b) For BSEE regulations governing the appeal of an order or decision issued under the regulations in this part, see 30 CFR part 290.
(c) For multiple use conflicts, see the Environmental Protection Agency listing of ocean dumping sites—40 CFR part 228.
(d) For related National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration programs see:
(1) Marine sanctuary regulations, 15 CFR part 922;
(2) Fishermen's Contingency Fund, 50 CFR part 296;
(3) Coastal Energy Impact Program, 15 CFR part 931;
(e) For Coast Guard regulations on the oil spill liability of vessels and operators, see 33 CFR parts 132, 135, and 136.
(f) For Coast Guard regulations on port access routes, see 33 CFR part 164.
(g) For compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act, see 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508.
(h) For Department of Transportation regulations on offshore pipeline facilities, see 49 CFR part 195.
(i) For Department of Defense regulations on military activities on offshore areas, see 32 CFR part 252.
(j) For Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) regulations, see 30 CFR chapter V.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]

# Subpart B—Assignments, Transfers, and Extensions

# Source:
76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, Redesignated at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016.
§ 256.70
Extension of lease by drilling or well reworking operations.
The term of a lease shall be extended beyond the primary term so long as drilling or well reworking operations are approved by the Secretary according to the conditions set forth in 30 CFR 250.180.
§ 256.71
Directional drilling.
In accordance with a BOEM-approved exploration plan or development and production plan, a lease may be maintained in force by directional wells drilled under the leased area from surface locations on adjacent or adjoining land not covered by the lease. In such circumstances, drilling shall be considered to have commenced on the leased area when drilling is commenced on the adjacent or adjoining land for the purpose of directional drilling under the leased area through any directional well surfaced on adjacent or adjoining land. Production, drilling or reworking of any such directional well shall be considered production or drilling or reworking operations on the leased area for all purposes of the lease.
§ 256.72
Compensatory payments as production.
If an oil and gas lessee makes compensatory payments and if the lease is not being maintained in force by other production of oil or gas in paying quantities or by other approved drilling or reworking operations, such payments shall be considered as the equivalent of production in paying quantities for all purposes of the lease.
§ 256.73
Effect of suspensions on lease term.
(a) A suspension may extend the term of a lease (see 30 CFR 250.171) with the extension being the length of time the suspension is in effect except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) A Directed Suspension does not extend the lease term when the Regional Supervisor directs a suspension because of:
(1) Gross negligence; or
(2) A willful violation of a provision of the lease or governing regulations.
(c) BSEE may issue suspensions for a period of up to 5 years per suspension. The Regional Supervisor will set the length of the suspension based on the conditions of the individual case involved. BSEE may grant consecutive suspensions. For more information on suspension of operations or production refer to the section under the heading “Suspensions” in 30 CFR part 250, subpart A.

# Subpart C—Termination of Leases

# Source:
76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, Redesignated at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016.
§ 256.77
Cancellation of leases.
(a) Any nonproducing lease issued under the act may be cancelled by the authorized officer whenever the lessee fails to comply with any provision of the act or lease or applicable regulations, if such failure to comply continues for 30 days after mailing of notice by registered or certified letter to the lease owner at the owner's record post office address. Any such cancellation is subject to judicial review as provided in section 23(b) of the Act.
(b) Producing leases issued under the Act may be cancelled by the Secretary whenever the lessee fails to comply with any provision of the Act, applicable regulations or the lease only after judicial proceedings as prescribed by section 5(d) of the Act.
(c) Any lease issued under the Act, whether producing or not, shall be canceled by the authorized officer upon proof that it was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation, and after notice and opportunity to be heard has been afforded to the lessee.
(d) Pursuant to section 5(a) of the Act, the Secretary may cancel a lease when:
(1) Continued activity pursuant to such lease would probably cause serious harm or damage to life, property, any mineral, National security or defense, or to the marine, coastal or human environment;
(2) The threat of harm or damage will not disappear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a reasonable period of time; and
(3) The advantages of cancellation outweigh the advantages of continuing such lease or permit in force. Procedures and conditions contained in § 550.182 shall apply as appropriate.

# Subpart D—Section 6 Leases

# Source:
76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, Redesignated at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016.
§ 256.79
Effect of regulations on lease.
(a) All regulations in this part, insofar as they are applicable, shall supersede the provisions of any lease which is maintained under section 6(a) of the Act. However, the provisions of a lease relating to area, minerals, rentals, royalties (subject to sections 6(a) (8) and (9) of the Act), and term (subject to section 6(a)(10) of the Act and, as to sulfur, subject to section 6(b)(2) of the Act) shall continue in effect, and, in the event of any conflict or inconsistency, shall take precedence over these regulations.
(b) A lease maintained under section 6(a) of the Act shall also be subject to all operating and conservation regulations applicable to the OCS. In addition, the regulations relating to geophysical and geological exploratory operations and to pipeline rights-of-way are applicable, to the extent that those regulations are not contrary to or inconsistent with the lease provisions relating to area, the minerals, rentals, royalties and term. The lessee shall comply with any provision of the lease as validated, the subject matter of which is not covered in the regulations in this part.
PARTS 259-260 [RESERVED]
Pt. 270

# PART 270—NONDISCRIMINATION IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
Sec.
270.1
Purpose.
270.2
Application of this part.
270.3
Definitions.
270.4
Discrimination prohibited.
270.5
Complaint.
270.6
Process.
270.7
Remedies.

# Authority:
43 U.S.C. 1863.

# Source:
76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 270.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the provisions of section 604 of the OCSLA of 1978 which provides that “no person shall, on the grounds of race, creed, color, national origin, or sex, be excluded from receiving or participating in any activity, sale, or employment, conducted pursuant to the
provisions of * * * the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.”
§ 270.2
Application of this part.
This part applies to any contract or subcontract entered into by a lessee or by a contractor or subcontractor of a lessee after the effective date of these regulations to provide goods, services, facilities, or property in an amount of $10,000 or more in connection with any activity related to the exploration for or development and production of oil, gas, or other minerals or materials in the OCS under the Act.
§ 270.3
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Contract
means any business agreement or arrangement (in which the parties do not stand in the relationship of employer and employee) between a lessee and any person which creates an obligation to provide goods, services, facilities, or property.
Lessee
means the party authorized by a lease, grant of right-of-way, or an approved assignment thereof to explore, develop, produce, or transport oil, gas, or other minerals or materials in the OCS pursuant to the Act and this part.
Person
means a person or company, including but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, association, joint stock venture, trust, mutual fund, or any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, or other official acting in a similar capacity for such company.
Subcontract
means any business agreement or arrangement (in which the parties do not stand in the relationship of employer and employee) between a lessee's contractor and any person other than a lessee that is in any way related to the performance of any one or more contracts.
§ 270.4
Discrimination prohibited.
No contract or subcontract to which this part applies shall be denied to or withheld from any person on the grounds of race, creed, color, national origin, or sex.
§ 270.5
Complaint.
(a) Whenever any person believes that he or she has been denied a contract or subcontract to which this part applies on the grounds of race, creed, color, national origin, or sex, such person may complain of such denial or withholding to the Regional Director of the OCS Region in which such action is alleged to have occurred. Any complaint filed under this part must be submitted in writing to the appropriate Regional Director not later than 180 days after the date of the alleged unlawful denial of a contract or subcontract which is the basis of the complaint.
(b) The complaint referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall be accompanied by such evidence as may be available to a person and which is relevant to the complaint including affidavits and other documents.
(c) Whenever any person files a complaint under this part, the Regional Director with whom such complaint is filed shall give written notice of such filing to all persons cited in the complaint no later than 10 days after receipt of such complaint. Such notice shall include a statement describing the alleged incident of discrimination, including the date and the names of persons involved in it.
§ 270.6
Process.
Whenever a Regional Director determines on the basis of any information, including that which may be obtained under § 270.5 of this part, that a violation of or failure to comply with any provision of this subpart probably occurred, the Regional director shall undertake to afford the complainant and the person(s) alleged to have violated the provisions of this part an opportunity to engage in informal consultations, meetings, or any other form of communications for the purpose of resolving the complaint. In the event such communications or consultations result in a mutually satisfactory resolution of the complaint, the complainant and all persons cited in the complaint shall notify the Regional Director in writing of their agreement to such resolution. If either the complainant or the person(s) alleged to have wrongfully discriminated fail to provide such written notice within a reasonable period of time, the Regional Director must proceed in accordance
with the provisions of 30 CFR 250, subpart N.
§ 270.7
Remedies.
In addition to the penalties available under 30 CFR part 250, subpart N, the Director may invoke any other remedies available to him or her under the Act or regulations for the lessee's failure to comply with provisions of the Act, regulations, or lease.
Pt. 280

# PART 280—PROSPECTING FOR MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
Subparts A-B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Obligations Under This Part

# Interrupted Activities
Sec.
280.20-280.24
[Reserved]
280.25
When may BSEE require me to stop activities under this part?
280.26
When may I resume activities?
280.27
When may BSEE cancel my permit?
280.28
May I relinquish my permit?
Subparts D-E [Reserved]

# Authority:
43 U.S.C. 1334.

# Source:
76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
Subparts A-B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Obligations Under This Part

# Interrupted Activities
§§ 280.20-280.24
[Reserved]
§ 280.25
When may BSEE require me to stop activities under this part?
(a) We may temporarily stop prospecting or scientific research activities under a permit when the Regional Director determines that:
(1) Activities pose a threat of serious, irreparable, or immediate harm. This includes damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, and any minerals (in areas leased or not leased), to the marine, coastal, or human environment, or to an archaeological resource;
(2) You failed to comply with any applicable law, regulation, order or provision of the permit. This would include the required submission of reports, well records or logs, and G
G data and information within the time specified; or
(3) Stopping the activities is in the interest of National security or defense.
(b) The Regional Director will advise you either orally or in writing of the procedures to temporarily stop activities. We will confirm an oral notification in writing and deliver all written notifications by courier or certified/registered mail. You must stop all activities under a permit as soon as you receive an oral or written notification.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 280.26
When may I resume activities?
The Regional Director will advise you when you may start your permit activities again.
§ 280.27
When may BSEE cancel my permit?
The Regional Director may cancel a permit at any time.
(a) If we cancel your permit, the Regional Director will advise you by certified or registered mail 30 days before the cancellation date and will state the reason.
(b) After we cancel your permit, you are still responsible for proper abandonment of any drill site according to the requirements of 30 CFR 251.7(b)(8). You must comply with all other obligations specified in this part or in the permit.
§ 280.28
May I relinquish my permit?
(a) You may relinquish your permit at any time by advising the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Regional Director by certified or registered mail 30 days in advance.
(b) After you relinquish your permit, you are still responsible for proper abandonment of any drill sites according to the requirements of 30 CFR 251.7(b)(8). You must also comply with all other obligations specified in this part or in the permit.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
Subparts D-E [Reserved]
PART 281 [RESERVED]
Pt. 282

# PART 282—OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF FOR MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
282.0
Authority for information collection.
282.1
Purpose and authority.
282.2
Scope.
282.3
Definitions.
282.4
[Reserved]
282.5
Disclosure of data and information to the public.
282.6
Disclosure of data and information to an adjacent State.
282.7
Jurisdictional controversies.

# Subpart B—Jurisdiction and Responsibilities of Director
282.10
Jurisdiction and responsibilities of Director.
282.11
Director's authority.
282.12
Director's responsibilities.
282.13
Suspension of production or other operations.
282.14
Noncompliance, remedies, and penalties.
282.15
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Obligations and Responsibilities of Lessees
282.20
[Reserved]
282.21
Plans, general.
282.22-282.26
[Reserved]
282.27
Conduct of operations.
282.28
Environmental protection measures.
282.29-282.30
[Reserved]
282.31
Suspension of production or other operations.

# Subpart D—Payments
282.40
[Reserved]
282.41
Method of royalty calculation
282.42
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Appeals
282.50
Appeals.

# Authority:
43 U.S.C. 1334.

# Source:
76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 282.0
Authority for information collection.
(a) The information collection requirements in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507 and assigned clearance number 1014-0021. The information is being collected to inform the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) of general mining operations in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). The information will be used to ensure that operations are conducted in a safe and environmentally responsible manner in compliance with governing laws and regulations. The requirement to respond is mandatory.
(b) Send comments regarding any aspect of the collection of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to: Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 282.1
Purpose and authority.
(a) The Act authorizes the Secretary to prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1334). The Secretary is authorized to prescribe and amend regulations that the Secretary determines to be necessary and proper in order to provide for the prevention of waste, conservation of the natural resources of the OCS, and the protection of correlative rights therein. In the enforcement of safety, environmental, and conservation laws and regulations, the Secretary is authorized to cooperate with adjacent States and other Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government.
(b) Subject to the supervisory authority of the Secretary, and unless otherwise specified, the regulations in this part shall be administered by the Director of BSEE.
§ 282.2
Scope.
The rules and regulations in this part apply as of their effective date to all
operations conducted under a mineral lease for OCS minerals other than oil, gas, or sulphur issued under the provisions of section 8(k) of the Act.
§ 282.3
Definitions.
When used in this part, the following terms shall have the following meaning:
Act
means the OCS Lands Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
).
Adjacent State
means with respect to any activity proposed, conducted, or approved under this part, any coastal State:
(1) That is, or is proposed to be, receiving for processing, refining, or transshipment OCS mineral resources commercially recovered from the seabed;
(2) That is used, or is scheduled to be used, as a support base for prospecting, exploration, testing, or mining activities; or
(3) In which there is a reasonable probability of significant effect on land or water uses from such activity.
Contingency Plan
means a plan for action to be taken in emergency situations.
Data
means geological and geophysical (G
G) facts and statistics or samples which have not been analyzed, processed, or interpreted.
Development
means those activities which take place following the discovery of minerals in paying quantities including geophysical activities, drilling, construction of offshore facilities, and operation of all onshore support facilities, which are for the purpose of ultimately producing the minerals discovered.
Director
means the Director of BSEE of the U.S. Department of the Interior or an official authorized to act on the Director's behalf.
Exploration
means the process of searching for minerals on a lease including:
(1) Geophysical surveys where magnetic, gravity, seismic, or other systems are used to detect or imply the presence of minerals;
(2) Any drilling including the drilling of a borehole in which the discovery of a mineral other than oil, gas, or sulphur is made and the drilling of any additional boreholes needed to delineate any mineral deposits; and
(3) The taking of sample portions of a mineral deposit to enable the lessee to determine whether to proceed with development and production.
Geological sample
means a collected portion of the seabed, the subseabed, or the overlying waters (when obtained for geochemical analysis) acquired while conducting postlease mining activities.
Governor
means the Governor of a State or the person or entity designated by, or pursuant to, State law to exercise the power granted to a Governor.
Information
means G
G data that have been analyzed, processed, or interpreted.
Lease
means one of the following, whichever is required by the context: Any form of authorization which is issued under section 8 or maintained under section 6 of the Acts and which authorizes exploration for, and development and production of, specific minerals; or the area covered by that authorization.
Lessee
means the person authorized by a lease, or an approved assignment thereof, to explore for and develop and produce the leased deposits in accordance with the regulations in this chapter. The term includes all parties holding that authority by or through the lessee.
Major Federal action
means any action or proposal by the Secretary which is subject to the provisions of section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (
i.e.,
an action which will have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment requiring preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) pursuant to section 102(2)(C) of NEPA).
Marine environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors which interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the marine ecosystem, including the waters of the high seas, the contiguous zone, transitional and intertidal areas, salt marshes, and wetlands within the coastal zone and on the OCS.
Minerals
include oil, gas, sulphur, geopressured-geothermal and associated resources, and all other minerals which are authorized by an Act of Congress to be produced from “public lands” as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976.
OCS mineral
means any mineral deposit or accretion found on or below the surface of the seabed but does not include oil, gas, or sulphur; salt or sand and gravel intended for use in association with the development of oil, gas, or sulphur; or source materials essential to production of fissionable materials which are reserved to the United States pursuant to section 12(e) of the Act.
Operator
means the individual, partnership, firm, or corporation having control or management of operations on the lease or a portion thereof. The operator may be a lessee, designated agent of the lessee, or holder of rights under an approved operating agreement.
Outer Continental Shelf
means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2 of Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301) and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Person
means a citizen or national of the United States; an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residency in the United States as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20); a private, public, or municipal corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any State or territory thereof; an association of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens or private, public, or municipal corporations, States, or political subdivisions of States; or anyone operating in a manner provided for by treaty or other applicable international agreements. The term does not include Federal Agencies.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an official authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.
Testing
means removing bulk samples for processing tests and feasibility studies and/or the testing of mining equipment to obtain information needed to develop a detailed Mining Plan.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 282.4
[Reserved]
§ 282.5
Disclosure of data and information to the public.
(a) The Director shall make data, information, and samples available in accordance with the requirements and subject to the limitations of the Act, the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), and the implementing regulations (43 CFR part 2).
(b) Geophysical data, processed G
G information, interpreted G
G information, and other data and information submitted pursuant to the requirements of this part shall not be available for public inspection without the consent of the lessee so long as the lease remains in effect, unless the Director determines that earlier limited release of such information is necessary for the unitization of operations on two or more leases, to ensure proper Mining Plans for a common ore body, or to promote operational safety. When the Director determines that early limited release of data and information is necessary, the data and information shall be shown only to persons with a direct interest in the affected lease(s), unitization agreement, or joint Mining Plan.
(c) Geophysical data, processed geophysical information and interpreted geophysical information collected on a lease with high resolution systems (including, but not limited to, bathymetry, side-scan sonar, subbottom profiler, and magnetometer) in compliance with stipulations or orders concerning protection of environmental aspects of the lease may be made available to the public 60 days after submittal to the Director, unless the lessee can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that release of the information or data would unduly damage the lessee's competitive position.
§ 282.6
Disclosure of data and information to an adjacent State.
(a) Proprietary data, information, and samples submitted to BSEE pursuant to the requirements of this part
shall be made available for inspection by representatives of adjacent State(s) upon request by the Governor(s) in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) Disclosure shall occur only after the Governor has entered into an agreement with the Secretary providing that:
(1) The confidentiality of the information shall be maintained;
(2) In any action commenced against the Federal Government or the State for failure to protect the confidentiality of proprietary information, the Federal Government or the State, as the case may be, may not raise as a defense any claim of sovereign immunity or any claim that the employee who revealed the proprietary information, which is the basis of the suit, was acting outside the scope of the person's employment in revealing the information;
(3) The State agrees to hold the United States harmless for any violation by the State or its employees or contractors of the agreement to protect the confidentiality of proprietary data, information, and samples; and
(c) The data, information, and samples available for inspection by representatives of adjacent State(s) pursuant to an agreement shall be related to leased lands.
§ 282.7
Jurisdictional controversies.
In the event of a controversy between the United States and a State as to whether certain lands are subject to Federal or State jurisdiction, either the Governor of the State or the Secretary may initiate negotiations in an attempt to settle the jurisdictional controversy. With the concurrence of the Attorney General, the Secretary may enter into an agreement with a State with respect to OCS mineral activities and to payment and impounding of rents, royalties, and other sums and with respect to the issuance or nonissuance of new leases pending settlement of the controversy.

# Subpart B—Jurisdiction and Responsibilities of Director
§ 282.10
Jurisdiction and responsibilities of Director.
Subject to the authority of the Secretary, the following activities are subject to the regulations in this part and are under the jurisdiction of the Director: Exploration, testing, and mining operations together with the associated environmental protection measures needed to permit those activities to be conducted in an environmentally responsible manner; handling, measurement, and transportation of OCS minerals; and other operations and activities conducted pursuant to a lease issued under 30 CFR part 581, or pursuant to a right of use and easement granted under 30 CFR 582.30, by or on behalf of a lessee or the holder of a right of use and easement.
§ 282.11
Director's authority.
(a)-(c) [Reserved]
(d)(1) The Director may approve the consolidation of two or more OCS mineral leases or portions of two or more OCS mineral leases into a single mining unit requested by lessees, or the Director may require such consolidation when the operation of those leases or portions of leases as a single mining unit is in the interest of conservation of the natural resources of the OCS or the prevention of waste. A mining unit may also include all or portions of one or more OCS mineral leases with all or portions of one or more adjacent State leases for minerals in a common orebody. A single unit operator shall be responsible for submission of required Delineation, Testing, and Mining Plans covering OCS mineral operations for an approved mining unit.
(2) Operations such as exploration, testing, and mining activities conducted in accordance with an approved plan on any lease or portion of a lease which is subject to an approved mining unit shall be considered operations on each of the leases that is made subject to the approved mining unit.
(3) Minimum royalty paid pursuant to a Federal lease, which is subject to an approved mining unit, is creditable against the production royalties allocated to that Federal lease during the
lease year for which the minimum royalty is paid.
(4) Any OCS minerals produced from State and Federal leases which are subject to an approved mining unit shall be accounted for separately unless a method of allocating production between State and Federal leases has been approved by the Director and the appropriate State official.
§ 282.12
Director's responsibilities.
(a) The Director is responsible for the regulation of activities to assure that all operations conducted under a lease or right of use and easement are conducted in a manner that protects the environment and promotes orderly development of OCS mineral resources. Those activities are to be designed to prevent serious harm or damage to, or waste of, any natural resource (including OCS mineral deposits and oil, gas, and sulphur resources in areas leased or not leased), any life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment.
(b)-(d) [Reserved]
(e) The Director shall assure that a scheduled onsite compliance inspection of each facility which is subject to regulations in this part is conducted at least once a year. The inspection shall be to determine that the lessee is in compliance with the requirements of the law; provisions of the lease; the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan; and the regulations in this part. Additional unscheduled onsite inspections shall be conducted without advance notice to the lessee to assure compliance with the provisions of applicable law; the lease; the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan; and the regulations in this part.
(f)(1) The Director shall, after completion of the technical and environmental evaluations, approve, disapprove, or require modification of the lessee's requests, applications, plans, and notices submitted pursuant to the provisions of this part; issue orders to govern lease operations; and require compliance with applicable provisions of the law, the regulations, the lease, and the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plans. The Director may give oral orders or approvals whenever prior approval is required before the commencement of an operation or activity. Oral orders or approvals given in response to a written request shall be confirmed in writing within 3 working days after issuance of the order or granting of the oral approval.
(2) The Director shall, after completion of the technical and environmental evaluations, approve, disapprove, or require modification, as appropriate, of the design plan, fabrication plan, and installation plan for platforms, artificial islands, and other installations and devices permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed. The approval, disapproval, or requirement to modify such plans may take the form of a condition of granting a right of use and easement under paragraph (a) of this section or as authorized under any lease issued or maintained under the Act.
(g) [Reserved]
(h) The Director may prescribe or approve, in writing or orally, departures from the operating requirements of the regulations of this part when such departures are necessary to facilitate the proper development of a lease; to conserve natural resources; or to protect life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment.
§ 282.13
Suspension of production or other operations.
(a) The Director may direct the suspension or temporary prohibition of production or any other operation or activity on all or any part of a lease when it has been determined that such suspension or temporary prohibition is in the National interest to:
(1) Facilitate proper development of a lease including a reasonable time to develop a mine and construct necessary support facilities, or
(2) Allow for the construction or negotiation for use of transportation facilities.
(b) The Director may also direct or, at the request of the lessee, approve a suspension or temporary prohibition of production or any other operation or activity, if:
(1) The lessee failed to comply with a provision of applicable law, regulation, order, or the lease;
(2) There is a threat of serious, irreparable, or immediate harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, any mineral deposit, or the marine, coastal, or human environment;
(3) The suspension or temporary prohibition is in the interest of National security or defense;
(4) The suspension or temporary prohibition is necessary for the initiation and conduct of an environmental evaluation to define mitigation measures to avoid or minimize adverse environmental impacts.
(5) The suspension or temporary prohibition is necessary to facilitate the installation of equipment necessary for safety of operations and protection of the environment;
(6) The suspension or temporary prohibition is necessary to allow for undue delays encountered by the lessee in obtaining required permits or consents, including administrative or judicial challenges or appeals;
(7) The Director determines that continued operations would result in premature abandonment of a producing mine, resulting in the loss of otherwise recoverable OCS minerals;
(8) The Director determines that the lessee cannot successfully operate a producing mine due to market conditions that are either temporary in nature or require temporary shutdown and reinvestment in order for the lessee to adapt to the conditions; or
(9) The suspension or temporary prohibition is necessary to comply with judicial decrees prohibiting production or any other operation or activity, or the permitting of those activities, effective the date set by the court for that prohibition.
(c) When the Director orders or approves a suspension or a temporary prohibition of operation or activity including production on all of a lease pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the term of the lease shall be extended for a period of time equal to the period of time that the suspension or temporary prohibition is in effect, except that no lease shall be so extended when the suspension or temporary prohibition is the result of the lessee's gross negligence or willful violation of a provision of the lease or governing regulations.
(d) The Director may, at any time within the period prescribed for a suspension or temporary prohibition issued pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, require the lessee to submit a Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management for approval in accordance with the requirements for the approval of such plans in part 582 of this title.
(e)(1) When the Director orders or issues a suspension or a temporary prohibition pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Director may require the lessee to conduct site-specific studies to identify and evaluate the cause(s) of the hazard(s) generating the suspension or temporary prohibition, the potential for damage from the hazard(s), and the measures available for mitigating the hazard(s). The nature, scope, and content of any study shall be subject to approval by the Director. The lessee shall furnish copies and all results of any such study to the Director. The cost of the study shall be borne by the lessee unless the Director arranges for the cost of the study to be borne by a party other than the lessee. The Director shall make results of any such study available to interested parties and to the public as soon as practicable after the completion of the study and submission of the results thereof.
(2) When the Director determines that measures are necessary, on the basis of the results of the studies conducted in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section and other information available to and identified by the Director, the lessee will be required to take appropriate measures to mitigate, avoid, or minimize the damage or potential damage on which the suspension or temporary prohibition is based. In choosing between alternative mitigation measures, the Director will balance the cost of the required measures against the reduction or potential reduction in damage or threat of damage or harm to life (including fish and other aquatic life), to property, to any mineral deposits (in areas leased or not leased), to the National security or defense, or to the marine, coastal, or
human environment. When deemed appropriate by the Director, the lessee must submit to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management a revised Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan that incorporates the mitigation measures required by the Director.
(f)(1) If under the provisions of paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, the Director, with respect to any lease, directs the suspension of production or other operations on the entire leasehold, no payment of rental or minimum royalty shall be due for or during the period of the directed suspension and the time for the lessee specify royalty free period of a period of reduced royalty pursuant to 30 CFR 581.28(b) will be extended for the period of directed suspension. If under the provisions of paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section the Director, with respect to a lease on which there has been no production, directs the suspension of operations on the entire leasehold, no payment of rental shall be due during the period of the directed suspension.
(2) If under the provisions of this section, the Director grants the request of a lessee for a suspension of production or other operations, the lessee's obligations to pay rental, minimum royalty, or royalty shall continue to apply during the period of the approved suspension, unless the Director's approval of the lessee's request for suspension authorizes the payment of a lesser amount during the period of approved suspension. If under the provision of this section, the Director grants a lessee's request for a suspension of production or other operations for a lease which includes provisions for a time period which the lessee may specify during which production from the leasehold would be royalty free or subject to a reduced royalty obligation pursuant to 30 CFR 581.28(b), the time during which production from a leasehold may be royalty free or subject to a reduced royalty obligation shall not be extended unless the Director's approval of the suspension specifies otherwise.
(3) If the lease anniversary date falls within a period of suspension for which no rental or minimum royalty payments are required under paragraph (a) of this section, the prorated rentals or minimum royalties are due and payable as of the date the suspension period terminates. These amounts shall be computed and notice thereof given the lessee. The lessee shall pay the amount due within 30 days after receipt of such notice. The anniversary date of a lease shall not change by reason of any period of lease suspension or rental or royalty relief resulting therefrom.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36153, June 6, 2016]
§ 282.14
Noncompliance, remedies, and penalties.
(a)(1) If the Director determines that a lessee has failed to comply with applicable provisions of law; the regulations in this part; other applicable regulations; the lease; the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan; or the Director's orders or instructions, and the Director determines that such noncompliance poses a threat of immediate, serious, or irreparable damage to the environment, the mine or the deposit being mined, or other valuable mineral deposits or other resources, the Director shall order the lessee to take immediate and appropriate remedial action to alleviate the threat. Any oral orders shall be followed up by service of a notice of noncompliance upon the lessee by delivery in person to the lessee or agent, or by certified or registered mail addressed to the lessee at the last known address.
(2) If the Director determines that the lessee has failed to comply with applicable provisions of law; the regulations in this part; other applicable regulations; the lease; the requirements of an approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan; or the Director's orders or instructions, and such noncompliance does not pose a threat of immediate, serious, or irreparable damage to the environment, the mine or the deposit being mined, or other valuable mineral deposits or other resources, the Director shall serve a notice of noncompliance upon the lessee by delivery in person to the lessee or agent or by certified or registered mail addressed to the lessee at the last known address.
(b) A notice of noncompliance shall specify in what respect(s) the lessee has failed to comply with the provisions of applicable law; regulations; the lease; the requirements of an approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan; or the Director's orders or instructions, and shall specify the action(s) which must be taken to correct the noncompliance and the time limits within which such action must be taken.
(c) Failure of a lessee to take the actions specified in the notice of noncompliance within the time limit specified shall be grounds for a suspension of operations and other appropriate actions, including but not limited to the assessment of a civil penalty of up to $40,000 per day for each violation that is not corrected within the time period specified (43 U.S.C. 1350(b)).
(d) Whenever the Director determines that a violation of or failure to comply with any provision of the Act; or any provision of a lease, license, or permit issued pursuant to the Act; or any provision of any regulation promulgated under the Act probably occurred and that such apparent violation continued beyond notice of the violation and the expiration of the reasonable time period allowed for corrective action, the Director shall follow the procedures concerning remedies and penalties in subpart N, Remedies and Penalties, of 30 CFR part 250 to determine and assess an appropriate penalty.
(e) The remedies and penalties prescribed in this section shall be concurrent and cumulative, and the exercise of one shall not preclude the exercise of the other. Further, the remedies and penalties prescribed in this section shall be in addition to any other remedies and penalties afforded by any other law or regulation (43 U.S.C. 1350(e)).
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36154, June 6, 2016]
§ 282.15
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Obligations and Responsibilities of Lessees
§ 282.20
[Reserved]
§ 282.21
Plans, general.
(a)-(d) [Reserved]
(e) Leasehold activities shall be carried out with due regard to conservation of resources, paying particular attention to the wise management of OCS mineral resources, minimizing waste of the leased resource(s) in mining and processing, and preventing damage to unmined parts of the mineral deposit and other resources of the OCS.
§§ 282.22-282.26
[Reserved]
§ 282.27
Conduct of operations.
(a) The lessee shall conduct all exploration, testing, development, and production activities and other operations in a safe and workmanlike manner and shall maintain equipment in a manner which assures the protection of the lease and its improvements, the health and safety of all persons, and the conservation of property, and the environment.
(b) Nothing in this part shall preclude the use of new or alternative technologies, techniques, procedures, equipment, or activities, other than those prescribed in the regulations of this part, if such other technologies, techniques, procedures, equipment, or activities afford a degree of protection, safety, and performance equal to or better than that intended to be achieved by the regulations of this part, provided the lessee obtains the written approval of the Director prior to the use of such new or alternative technologies, techniques, procedures, equipment, or activities.
(c) The lessee shall immediately notify the Director when there is a death or serious injury; fire, explosion, or other hazardous event which threatens damage to life, a mineral deposit, or equipment; spills of oil, chemical reagents, or other liquid pollutants which could cause pollution; or damage to aquatic life or the environment associated with operations on the lease.
As soon as practical, the lessee shall file a detailed report on the event and action(s) taken to control the situation and to mitigate any further damage.
(d)(1) Lessees shall provide means, at all reasonable hours either day or night, for the Director to inspect or investigate the conditions of the operation and to determine whether applicable regulations; terms and conditions of the lease; and the requirements of the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan are being met.
(2) A lessee shall, on request by the Director, furnish food, quarters, and transportation for BSEE representatives to inspect its facilities. Upon request, you will be reimbursed by BSEE for the actual costs that you incur as a result of providing transportation to BSEE representatives. In addition, you will be reimbursed for the actual costs that you incur for providing food and quarters for a BSEE representative's stay of more than 12 hours. You must submit an invoice for reimbursement within 90 days of the inspection.
(e) Mining and processing vessels, platforms, structures, artificial islands, and mobile drilling units which have helicopter landing facilities shall be identified with at least one sign using letters and figures not less than 12 inches in height. Signs for structures without helicopter landing facilities shall be identified with at least one sign using letters and figures not less than 3 inches in height. Signs shall be affixed at a location that is visible to approaching traffic and shall contain the following information which may be abbreviated:
(1) Name of the lease operator;
(2) The area designation based on Official OCS Protraction Diagrams;
(3) The block number in which the facility is located; and
(4) Vessel, platform, structure, or rig name.
(f)(1)
Drilling.
(i) When drilling on lands valuable or potentially valuable for oil and gas or geopressured or geothermal resources, drilling equipment shall be equipped with blowout prevention and control devices acceptable to the Director before penetrating more than 500 feet unless a different depth is specified in advance by the Director.
(ii) In cases where the Director determines that there is sufficient likelihood of encountering pressurized hydrocarbons, the Director may require that the lessee comply with all or portions of the requirements in part 250, subpart D, of this title.
(iii) Before drilling any hole which may penetrate an aquifer, the lessee shall follow the procedures included in the approved plan for the penetration and isolation of the aquifer during the drilling operation, during use of the hole, and for subsequent abandonment of the hole.
(iv) Cuttings from holes drilled on the lease shall be disposed of and monitored in accordance with the approved plan.
(v) The use of muds in drilling holes on the lease and their subsequent disposition shall be according to the approved plan.
(2) All drill holes which are susceptible to logging shall be logged, and the lessee shall prepare a detailed lithologic log of each drill hole. Drill holes which are drilled deeper than 500 feet shall be drilled in a manner which permits logging. Copies of logs of cores and cuttings and all in-hole surveys such as electronic logs, gamma ray logs, neutron density logs, and sonic logs shall be provided to the Director.
(3) Drill holes for exploration, testing, development, or production shall be properly plugged and abandoned to the satisfaction of the Director in accordance with the approved plan and in such a manner as to protect the surface and not endanger any operation; any freshwater aquifer; or deposit of oil, gas, or other mineral substance.
(g) The use of explosives on the lease shall be in accordance with the approved plan.
(h)(1) Any equipment placed on the seabed shall be designed to allow its recovery and removal upon abandonment of leasehold activities.
(2) Disposal of equipment, cables, chains, containers, or other materials into the ocean is prohibited.
(3) Materials, equipment, tools, containers, and other items used on the OCS which are of such shape or configuration that they are likely to snag or damage fishing devices shall be handled and marked as follows:
(i) All loose materials, small tools, and other small objects shall be kept in a suitable storage area or a marked container when not in use or in a marked container before transport over OCS waters;
(ii) All cable, chain, or wire segments shall be recovered after use and securely stored;
(iii) Skid-mounted equipment, portable containers, spools or reels, and drums shall be marked with the owner's name prior to use or transport over OCS waters; and
(iv) All markings must clearly identify the owner and must be durable enough to resist the effects of the environmental conditions to which they are exposed.
(4) Any equipment or material described in paragraphs (h)(2), (h)(3)(ii), and (iii) of this section that is lost overboard shall be recorded on the daily operations report of the facility and reported to the Director and to the U.S. Coast Guard.
(i) Any bulk sampling or testing that is necessary to be conducted prior to submission of a Mining Plan shall be in accordance with an approved Testing Plan. The sale of any OCS minerals acquired under an approved Testing Plan shall be subject to the payment of the royalty specified in the lease to the United States.
(j) Installations and structures: (1) The lessee shall design, fabricate, install, use, inspect, and maintain all installations and structures, including platforms on the OCS, to assure the structural integrity of all installations and structures for the safe conduct of exploration, testing, mining, and processing activities considering the specific environmental conditions at the location of the installation or structure.
(2) All fixed or bottom-founded platforms or other structures, e.g., artificial islands shall be designed, fabricated, installed, inspected, and maintained in accordance with the provisions of 30 CFR part 250, subpart I.
(k) The lessee shall not produce any OCS mineral until the method of measurement and the procedures for product valuation have been instituted in accordance with the approved Testing or Mining Plan. The lessee shall enter the weight or quantity and quality of each mineral produced in accordance with 30 CFR 582.29.
(l) The lessee shall conduct OCS mineral processing operations in accordance with the approved Testing or Mining Plan and use due diligence in the reduction, concentration, or separation of mineral substances by mechanical or chemical processes, by evaporation, or other means, so that the percentage of concentrates or other mineral substances are recovered in accordance with the practices approved in the Testing or Mining Plan.
(m) No material shall be discharged or disposed of except in accordance with the approved disposal practice and procedures contained in the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36154, June 6, 2016]
§ 282.28
Environmental protection measures.
(a)-(b) [Reserved]
(c)(1) The lessee shall monitor activities in a manner that develops the data and information necessary to enable the Director to assess the impacts of exploration, testing, mining, and processing activities on the environment on and off the lease; develop and evaluate methods for mitigating adverse environmental effects; validate assessments made in previous environmental evaluations; and ensure compliance with lease and other requirements for the protection of the environment.
(2) Monitoring of environmental effects shall include determination of the spatial and temporal environmental changes induced by the exploration, testing, development, production, and processing activities on the flora and fauna of the sea surface, the water column, and/or the seafloor.
(3) The Director may place observers onboard exploration, testing, mining, and processing vessels; installations; or structures to ensure that the provisions of the lease, the approved plan, and these regulations are followed and to evaluate the effectiveness of the approved monitoring and mitigation practices and procedures in protecting the environment.
(4) The Director may order or the lessee may request a modification of the
approved monitoring program prior to the startup of testing activities or commercial-scale recovery, and at other appropriate times as necessary, to reflect accurately the proposed operations or to incorporate the results of recent research or improved monitoring techniques.
(5) [Reserved]
(6) When required, the monitoring plan will specify:
(i) The sampling techniques and procedures to be used to acquire the needed data and information;
(ii) The format to be used in analysis and presentation of the data and information;
(iii) The equipment, techniques, and procedures to be used in carrying out the monitoring program; and
(iv) The name and qualifications of person(s) designated to be responsible for carrying out the environmental monitoring.
(d) Lessees shall develop and conduct their operations in a manner designed to avoid, minimize, or otherwise mitigate environmental impacts and to demonstrate the effectiveness of efforts to that end. Based upon results of the monitoring program, the Director may specify particular procedures for mitigating environmental impacts.
(e) [Reserved]
§§ 282.29-282.30
[Reserved]
§ 282.31
Suspension of production or other operations.
A lessee may submit a request for a suspension of production or other operations. The request shall include justification for granting the requested suspension, a schedule of work leading to the initiation or restoration of production or other operations, and any other information the Director may require.

# Subpart D—Payments
§ 282.40
[Reserved]
§ 282.41
Method of royalty calculation.
In the event that the provisions of royalty management regulations in part 1206 of chapter XII do not apply to the specific commodities produced under regulations in this part, the lessee shall comply with procedures specified in the leasing notice.
§ 282.42
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Appeals
§ 282.50
Appeals.
See 30 CFR part 290 for instructions on how to appeal any order or decision that we issue under this part.
Pt. 285

# PART 285—RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ALTERNATE USES OF EXISTING FACILITIES ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
285.100
Authority.
285.101
What is the purpose of this part?
285.102
What are BSEE's responsibilities under this part?
285.103
When may BSEE prescribe or approve departures from the regulations in this part?
285.104
[Reserved]
285.105
What are my responsibilities under this part?
285.106-285.109
[Reserved]
285.110
How do I submit applications, reports, or notices required by this part?
285.111
When and how does BSEE charge me processing fees on a case-by-case basis?
285.112
Definitions.
285.113
How will data and information obtained by BSEE under this part be disclosed to the public?
285.114
Paperwork Reduction Act statements—information collection.
285.115
Documents incorporated by reference.
285.116
Requests for information on the state of the offshore renewable energy industry.
285.117
[Reserved]
285.118
What are my appeal rights?
Subparts B and C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Lease and Grant Administration

# Noncompliance and Cessation Orders
285.400
What happens if I fail to comply with this part?
285.401
When may BSEE issue a cessation order?
285.402
What is the effect of a cessation order?
285.403-285.405
[Reserved]

# Responsibility for Fulfilling Obligations
285.406
Who is responsible for fulfilling lease and grant obligations?
285.407-285.414
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Suspension
285.415
What is a lease or grant suspension?
285.416
[Reserved]
285.417
When may BSEE order a suspension?
285.418
How will BSEE issue a suspension?
285.419
What are my immediate responsibilities if I receive a suspension order?
285.420
What effect does a suspension order have on my payments?
285.421
How long will a suspension be in effect?
285.422-285.432
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Termination
285.433
What must I do after my lease or grant terminates?
285.434-285.436
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Cancellation
285.437
When can my lease or grant be canceled?
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Information Requirements
285.600-285.601
[Reserved]
285.602
What records must I maintain?
285.603-285.613
[Reserved]

# Activities Under an Approved SAP
285.614
When may I begin conducting activities under my approved SAP?
285.615
What other reports or notices must I submit to BSEE under my approved SAP?
285.616-285.630
[Reserved]

# Activities Under an Approved COP
285.631
When must I initiate activities under an approved COP?
285.632
What documents must I submit before I may construct and install facilities under my approved COP?
285.633
How do I comply with my COP?
285.634-285.635
[Reserved]
285.636
What notices must I provide BSEE following approval of my COP?
285.637
When may I commence commercial operations on my commercial lease?
285.638
What must I do upon completion of my commercial operations as approved in my COP or FERC license?
285.639-285.649
[Reserved]

# Activities Under an Approved GAP
285.650
When may I begin conducting activities under my GAP?
285.651
When may I construct complex or significant OCS facilities on my limited lease or any facilities on my project easement proposed under my GAP?
285.652
[Reserved]
285.653
What other reports or notices must I submit to BSEE under my approved GAP?
285.654-285.659
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Facility Design, Fabrication, and Installation

# Reports
285.700
What reports must I submit to BSEE before installing facilities described in my approved SAP, COP, or GAP?
285.701
What must I include in my Facility Design Report?
285.702
What must I include in my Fabrication and Installation Report?
285.703
What reports must I submit for project modifications and repairs?
285.704
After receiving the FDR, FIR, or project verification reports, what will BSEE do?

# Certified Verification Agent
285.705
When must I use a Certified Verification Agent (CVA)?
285.706
How do I nominate a CVA for BSEE approval?
285.707
What are the CVA's primary duties for facility design review?
285.708
What are the CVA's or project engineer's primary duties for fabrication and installation review?
285.709
When conducting onsite fabrication inspections, what must the CVA or project engineer verify?
285.710
When conducting onsite installation inspections, what must the CVA or project engineer do?
285.711
[Reserved]
285.712
What are the CVA's or project engineer's reporting requirements?
285.713
What must I do after the CVA or project engineer confirms conformance with the Fabrication and Installation Report on my commercial lease?
285.714
What records relating to FDRs, FIRs, and Project Modification and Repair Reports must I keep?

# Subpart H—Environmental and Safety Management, Inspections, and Facility Assessments for Activities Conducted Under SAPs, COPs and GAPs
285.800
How must I conduct my activities to comply with safety and environmental requirements?
285.801
How must I conduct my approved activities to protect marine mammals, threatened and endangered species, and designated critical habitat?
285.802
What must I do if I discover a potential archaeological resource while conducting my approved activities?
285.803
How must I conduct my approved activities to protect essential fish habitats identified and described under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act?
285.804-285.809
[Reserved]

# Safety Management Systems
285.810
When must I submit a Safety Management System (SMS) and what must I include in my SMS?
285.811
Am I required to obtain a certification of my SMS?
285.812
How must I implement my SMS?

# Maintenance and Shutdowns
285.813
When do I have to report removing equipment from service?
285.814
[Reserved]

# Equipment Failure and Adverse Environmental Effects
285.815
What must I do if I have facility damage or an equipment failure?
285.816
What must I do if environmental or other conditions adversely affect a cable, pipeline, or facility?
285.817-285.819
[Reserved]

# Inspections and Assessments
285.820
Will BSEE conduct inspections?
285.821
Will BSEE conduct scheduled and unscheduled inspections?
285.822
What must I do when BSEE conducts an inspection?
285.823
Will BSEE reimburse me for my expenses related to inspections?
285.824
How must I conduct self-inspections?
285.825
When must I assess my facilities?
285.826-285.829
[Reserved]

# Incident Reporting and Investigation
285.830
What are my incident reporting requirements?
285.831
What incidents must I report, and when must I report them?
285.832
How do I report incidents requiring immediate notification?
285.833
What are the reporting requirements for incidents requiring written notification?

# Subpart I—Decommissioning

# Decommissioning Obligations and Requirements
285.900
Who must meet the decommissioning obligations in this subpart?
285.901
When do I accrue decommissioning obligations?
285.902
What are the general requirements for decommissioning for facilities authorized under my SAP, COP, or GAP?
285.903
What are the requirements for decommissioning FERC-licensed hydrokinetic facilities?
285.904
Can I request a departure from the decommissioning requirements?

# Decommissioning Applications
285.905
When must I submit my decommissioning application?
285.906
What must my decommissioning application include?
285.907
How will BSEE process my decommissioning application?
285.908
What must I include in my decommissioning notice?

# Facility Removal
285.909
When may facilities remain in place following termination of a lease or grant?
285.910
What must I do when I remove my facility?
285.911
[Reserved]

# Decommissioning Report
285.912
After I remove a facility, cable, or pipeline, what information must I submit?

# Compliance With an Approved Decommissioning Application
285.913
What happens if I fail to comply with my approved decommissioning application?

# Subpart J—Rights of Use and Easement for Energy- and Marine-Related Activities Using Existing OCS Facilities

# Regulated Activities
285.1000
What activities does this subpart regulate?
285.1001-285.1013
[Reserved]

# Alternate Use RUE Administration
285.1014
When will BSEE suspend an Alternate Use RUE?
285.1015
[Reserved]
285.1016
When will an Alternate Use RUE be cancelled?
285.1017
[Reserved]

# Decommissioning an Alternate Use RUE
285.1018
Who is responsible for decommissioning an OCS facility subject to an Alternate Use RUE?
285.1019
What are the decommissioning requirements for an Alternate Use RUE?

# Authority:
43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.

# Source:
88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 285.100
Authority.
The authority for this part derives from the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCS Lands Act) (43 U.S.C. 1337). The Secretary of the Interior delegated to the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) the authority to regulate certain activities. These regulations specifically apply to activities that:
(a) Produce or support production, transportation, or transmission of energy from sources other than oil and gas; or
(b) Use, for energy-related purposes or for other authorized marine-related purposes, facilities currently or previously used for activities authorized under the OCS Lands Act.
§ 285.101
What is the purpose of this part?
The purpose of this part is to:
(a) Inform you and third parties of your obligations when you undertake activities authorized in this part and 30 CFR parts 585 and 586; and
(b) Ensure that renewable energy activities on the OCS and activities involving the alternate use of OCS facilities for energy- or marine-related purposes are conducted in a safe and environmentally sound manner, in conformance with the requirements of subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act, other applicable laws and regulations, and the terms of your lease, ROW grant, RUE grant, or Alternate Use RUE grant.
§ 285.102
What are BSEE's responsibilities under this part?
(a) BSEE will ensure that any activities authorized in this part and 30 CFR parts 585 and 586 are carried out in a manner that provides for:
(1) Safety;
(2) Protection of the environment;
(3) Prevention of waste;
(4) Conservation of the natural resources of the OCS;
(5) Coordination with relevant Federal agencies (including, in particular, those agencies involved in planning activities that are undertaken to avoid conflicts among users and maximize the economic and ecological benefits of the OCS, including multifaceted spatial planning efforts);
(6) Protection of national security interests of the United States;
(7) Protection of the rights of other authorized users of the OCS; and
(8) Oversight, inspection, research, monitoring, and enforcement of activities authorized by a lease or grant issued under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586.
(b) BSEE will require compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, other requirements, and the terms of your lease or grant issued under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586, and approved plans. BSEE will approve, disapprove, or approve with conditions any applications or other documents submitted to BSEE for approval under the provisions of this part.
(c) Unless otherwise provided in this part, BSEE may give oral directives or decisions whenever prior BSEE approval is required under this part. BSEE will document in writing any such oral directives within 10 business days.
(d) BSEE will establish practices and procedures to govern the collection of all payments due under this part to the Federal Government, including any cost recovery fees and other fees or payments. BSEE will do this in accordance with the terms of this part, the leasing notice, the lease or grant under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586, and applicable Office of Natural Resources Revenue (ONRR) regulations or guidance.
§ 285.103
When may BSEE prescribe or approve departures from the regulations in this part?
(a) BSEE may prescribe or approve departures from the provisions of this part when departures are necessary because the applicable provision(s) as applied to a specific circumstance:
(1) Are impractical or unduly burdensome and the departure is necessary to achieve the intended objectives of the renewable energy program;
(2) Fail to conserve the natural resources of the OCS;
(3) Fail to protect life (including human and wildlife), property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment; or
(4) Fail to protect sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance.
(b) Any departure approved under this section and its rationale must:
(1) Be consistent with subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act;
(2) Protect the environment and the public health and safety to the same degree as if there was no approved departure from the regulations;
(3) Not impair the rights of third parties; and
(4) Be documented in writing.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42713, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.104
[Reserved]
§ 285.105
What are my responsibilities under this part?
As a lessee, applicant, operator, or holder of a ROW grant, RUE grant, or Alternate Use RUE grant, you must:
(a) Design your projects and conduct all activities in a manner that ensures safety and will not cause undue harm or damage to natural resources, including their physical, atmospheric, and biological components to the extent practicable; and take measures to prevent unauthorized discharge of pollutants including marine trash and debris into the offshore environment.
(b) Submit requests, applications, notices, modifications, and supplemental information to BSEE as required by this part;
(c) Follow up, in writing, any oral request or notification you made, within 3 business days;
(d) Comply with all applicable laws and regulations, the terms of your lease or grant under 30 CFR part 585 or 586, reports, notices, and approved plans prepared under this part, 30 CFR part 585 or 586, and any conditions imposed by BOEM or BSEE through its review of any of these reports, notices, and approved plans, as provided in this part
or in
30 CFR part 585 or 586;
(e) Make all applicable payments on time;
(f) Comply with the DOI's nonprocurement debarment regulations at 2 CFR part 1400;
(g) Include the requirement to comply with 2 CFR part 1400 in all contracts and transactions related to a lease or grant under this part;
(h) Conduct all activities authorized by the lease or grant in a manner consistent with the provisions of subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act;
(i) Compile, retain, and make available to BSEE representatives, within the time specified by BSEE, any data and information related to the site assessment, design, and operations of your project; and
(j) Respond to requests from the Director in a timely manner.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42713, May 15, 2024]
§§ 285.106-285.109
[Reserved]
§ 285.110
How do I submit applications, reports, or notices required by this part?
Unless otherwise stated, you must submit one electronic copy of all plans, applications, reports, or notices required by this part to BSEE. BSEE will inform you if it requires paper copies of specific documents. Unless stated otherwise, documents should be submitted to the relevant contacts listed on the BSEE website.[89 FR 42713, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.111
When and how does BSEE charge me processing fees on a case-by-case basis?
(a) BSEE will charge a processing fee on a case-by-case basis under the procedures in this section with regard to any application or request under this part if we decide at any time that the preparation of a particular document or study is necessary for the application or request and it will have a unique processing cost.
(1) Processing costs will include contract oversight and efforts to review and approve documents prepared by contractors, whether the contractor is paid directly by the applicant or through BSEE.
(2) We may apply a standard overhead rate to direct processing costs.
(b) We will assess the ongoing processing fee for each individual application or request according to the following procedures:
(1) Before we process your application or request, we will give you a written estimate of the proposed fee based on reasonable processing costs.
(2) You may comment on the proposed fee.
(3) You may:
(i) Ask for our approval to perform, or to directly pay a contractor to perform, all or part of any document, study, or other activity according to standards we specify, thereby reducing our costs for processing your application or request; or
(ii) Ask to pay us to perform, or contract for, all or part of any document, study, or other activity.
(4) We will then give you the final estimate of the processing fee amount with payment terms and instructions after considering your comments and any BSEE-approved work you will do.
(i) If we encounter higher or lower processing costs than anticipated, we will re-estimate our reasonable processing costs following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, but we will not stop ongoing processing unless you do not pay in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(ii) Once processing is complete, we will refund to you the amount of money that we did not spend on processing costs.
(5)(i) Consistent with the payment and billing terms provided in the final estimate, we will periodically estimate what our reasonable processing costs will be for a specific period and will bill you for that period. Payment is due to us 30 days after you receive your bill. We will stop processing your document if you do not pay the bill by the date payment is due.
(ii) If a periodic payment turns out to be more or less than our reasonable processing costs for the period, we will adjust the next billing accordingly or make a refund. Do not deduct any amount from a payment without our prior written approval.
(6) You must pay the entire fee before we will issue the final document or take final action on your application or request.
(7) You may appeal our estimated processing costs in accordance with the regulations in 43 CFR part 4. We will not process the document further until the appeal is resolved, unless you pay the fee under protest while the appeal is pending. If the appeal results in a decision changing the proposed fee, we will adjust the fee in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section. If we adjust the fee downward, we will not pay interest.
§ 285.112
Definitions.
Terms used in this part have the meanings as defined in this section:P
Affected State
means with respect to any activities proposed, conducted, or approved under this part, any coastal State—
(1) That is, or is proposed to be, the site of gathering, transmitting, or distributing energy or is otherwise receiving, processing, refining, or transshipping products, or services derived from activities approved under this part;
(2) That is used, or is scheduled to be used, as a support base for activities approved under this part; or
(3) In which there is a reasonable probability of significant effect on land or water uses from activities approved under this part.
Alternate Use
refers to the energy- or marine-related use of an existing OCS facility for activities not otherwise authorized by this title or other applicable law.
Alternate Use RUE
means a right-of-use and easement issued for activities authorized under subpart J of this part or part 586.
Archaeological resource
means any material remains of human life or activities that are at least 50 years of age and that are of archaeological interest (
i.e.,
which are capable of providing scientific or humanistic understanding of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques, such as controlled observation, contextual measurement, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation, and explanation).
BOEM
means the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management of the Department of the Interior.
BSEE
means the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement of the Department of the Interior.
Certified Verification Agent (CVA)
means an individual or organization, experienced in the design, fabrication, and installation of offshore marine facilities or structures, who will conduct specified third-party reviews, inspections, and verifications in accordance with this part.
Commercial activities
means, under renewable energy leases and grants, all activities associated with the generation, storage, or transmission of electricity or other energy product from a renewable energy project on the OCS, and for which such electricity or other energy product is intended for distribution, sale, or other commercial use, except for electricity or other energy product distributed or sold pursuant to technology-testing activities on a limited lease. This term also includes activities associated with all stages of development, including initial site characterization and assessment, facility construction, and project decommissioning.
Commercial lease
means a lease issued under 30 CFR part 585 that specifies the terms and conditions under which a person can conduct commercial activities.
Commercial operations
means the generation of electricity or other energy product for commercial use, sale, transmission, or distribution from a commercial lease.
Critical Safety Systems and Equipment
means safety systems and equipment designed to prevent or ameliorate fires, spillages, or other major accidents that could result in harm to health, safety, or the environment in the area of your facilities.
Decommissioning
means removing BOEM and BSEE approved facilities and returning the site of the lease or grant to a condition that meets the requirements under subpart I of this part.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE), of the U.S. Department of the Interior, or an official authorized to act on the Director's behalf.
Fabrication
means the cutting, fitting, welding, or other assembly of project elements.
Facility
means an installation that is permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed of the OCS. Facilities include any structures; devices; appurtenances; gathering, transmission, and distribution cables; pipelines; and permanently moored vessels. Any group of OCS installations interconnected with walkways, or any group of installations that includes a central or primary installation with one or more satellite or secondary installations, is a single facility. BOEM and BSEE may decide that the complexity of the installations justifies their classification as separate facilities.
Grant
means a right-of-way, right-of-use and easement, or alternate use right-of-use and easement issued under the provisions of 30 CFR parts 585 or 586.
Human environment
means the physical, social, and economic components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the state, condition, and quality of living conditions, employment, and health of those affected, directly or indirectly, by activities occurring on the OCS.
Lease
means an agreement authorizing the use of a designated portion of the OCS for activities allowed under this part or 30 CFR part 585. The term also means the area covered by that agreement, when the context requires.
Lessee
means the holder of a lease, a BOEM-approved assignee, and, when describing the conduct required of parties engaged in activities on the lease, it also refers to the operator and all persons authorized by the holder of the lease or operator to conduct activities on the lease.
Limited lease
means a lease issued under 30 CFR part 585 that specifies the terms and conditions under which a person may conduct activities on the OCS that support the production of energy, but do not result in the production of electricity or other energy product for sale, distribution, or other commercial use exceeding a limit specified in the lease.
Natural resources
include, without limiting the generality thereof, renewable energy, oil, gas, and all other minerals (as defined in section 2(q) of the OCS Lands Act), and marine animal and marine plant life.
Operator
means the individual, corporation, or association having control or management of activities on the lease or grant issued under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586. The operator may be a lessee, grant holder, or a contractor designated by the lessee or holder of a grant issued under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586.
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)
means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters, as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301), whose subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Person
means, in addition to a natural person, an association (including partnerships and joint ventures); a Federal agency; a State; a political subdivision of a State; a Native American Tribal government; or a private, public, or municipal corporation.
Project,
for the purposes of defining the source of revenues to be shared, means a lease ROW, RUE, or Alternate Use RUE on which the activities authorized under this part or 30 CFR parts 585 or 586 are conducted on the OCS. The term “project” may be used elsewhere in this rule to refer to these same authorized activities, the facilities used to conduct these activities, or to the geographic area of the project,
i.e.,
the project area.
Project Design Envelope (PDE)
means a reasonable range of design parameters proposed in a lessee's plan for components of the project, such as type, dimensions, and number of wind turbine generators; foundation type; location of the export cable route; location of an onshore substation; location of the grid connection point; and construction methods and timing.
Project easement
means an easement to which, upon approval of your Construction and Operations Plan (COP) or General Activities Plan (GAP), you are entitled as part of the lease for the purpose of installing, gathering, transmission, and distribution cables, pipelines, and appurtenances on the OCS as necessary for the full enjoyment of the lease.
Renewable energy
means energy resources other than oil and gas and minerals as defined in 30 CFR part 580. Such resources include, but are not limited to, wind, solar, and ocean waves, tides, and current.
Revenues
mean bonuses, rents, operating fees, and similar payments made in connection with a project or project area. It does not include administrative fees such as those assessed for cost recovery, civil penalties, and forfeiture of financial assurance.
Right-of-use and easement (RUE) grant
means an easement issued by BOEM under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586 that authorizes use of a designated portion of the OCS to support activities on a lease or other use authorization for renewable energy activities. The term also means the area covered by the authorization.
Right-of-way (ROW) grant
means an authorization issued by BOEM under 30 CFR part 585 to use a portion of the OCS for the construction and use of a cable or pipeline for the purpose of gathering, transmitting, distributing, or otherwise transporting electricity or other energy product generated or produced from renewable energy, but does not constitute a project easement under 30 CFR part 585. The term also means the area covered by the authorization.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an official authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.
Significant archaeological resource
means an archaeological resource that meets the criteria of significance for eligibility for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, as defined in 36 CFR 60.4, or its successor.
Site assessment activities
means those initial activities conducted to assess an area on the OCS, such as resource assessment surveys (e.g., meteorological and oceanographic) or technology testing, involving the installation of bottom-founded facilities.
We, us,
and
our
refer to the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement of the Department of the Interior, or its possessive, depending on the context.
You
and
your
means an applicant, lessee, the operator, or designated operator, ROW grant holder, RUE grant holder, or Alternate Use RUE grant holder under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586, or the designated agent of any of these, or
the possessive of each, depending on the context. The terms
you
and
your
also include contractors and subcontractors of the entities specified in the preceding sentence.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42713, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.113
How will data and information obtained by BSEE under this part be disclosed to the public?
(a) BSEE will make data and information available in accordance with the requirements and subject to the limitations of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552) and the regulations contained in 43 CFR part 2.
(b) BSEE will not release such data and information that we have determined is exempt from disclosure under exemption 4 of FOIA. We will review such data and information and objections of the submitter by the following schedule to determine whether release at that time will result in substantial competitive harm or disclosure of trade secrets.
If you have a . . .
Then BSEE will review data and information for possible release:
(1) Commercial lease
At the earlier of: (i) 3 years after the commencement of commercial operations; or (ii) 3 years after the lease terminates.
(2) Limited lease
At 3 years after the lease terminates.
(3) ROW or RUE grant
At the earliest of:
(i) 10 years after the approval of the grant;
(ii) Grant termination; or
(iii) 3 years after the completion of construction activities.
(c) After considering any objections from the submitter, if we determine that release of such data and information will result in:
(1) No substantial competitive harm or disclosure of trade secrets, then the data and information will be released.
(2) Substantial competitive harm or disclosure of trade secrets, then the data and information will not be released at that time but will be subject to further review every 3 years thereafter.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42714, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.114
Paperwork Reduction Act statements—information collection.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection requirements in 30 CFR part 285 under 43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
and assigned OMB Control Number 1014-0034. The table in paragraph (e) of this section lists the subparts in the rule requiring the information and its title, summarizes the reasons for collecting the information, and summarizes how BSEE uses the information.
(b) Respondents are primarily renewable energy applicants, lessees, ROW grant holders, RUE grant holders, Alternate Use RUE grant holders, and operators. The requirement to respond to the information collection in this part is mandated under subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act. Some responses are also required to obtain or retain a benefit, or may be voluntary.
(c) The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
) requires us to inform the public that an agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
(d) Comments regarding any aspect of the collections of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, should be sent to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
(e) BSEE is collecting this information for the reasons given in the following table:
30 CFR 285 subpart and title
Reasons for collecting information and how used
(1) Subpart A—General Provisions
To inform BSEE of actions taken to comply with general operational requirements on the OCS. To ensure that operations on the OCS meet statutory and regulatory requirements, are safe and protect the environment, and result in diligent development on OCS leases.
(2) Subpart D—Lease and Grant Administration
To ensure compliance with regulations pertaining to a lease or grant, and suspension of leases and grants.
(3)Subpart F—Information Requirements
To enable BSEE to comply with Federal laws to ensure the safety of the environment on the OCS.
(4) Subpart G—Facility Design, Fabrication, and Installation
To enable BSEE to review the final design, fabrication, and installation of facilities on a lease or grant to ensure that these facilities are designed, fabricated, and installed according to appropriate standards in compliance with BSEE provisions, and where applicable, the approved plan.
(5) Subpart H—Environmental and Safety Management, Inspections, and Facility Assessments for Activities Conducted Under SAPs, COPs, and GAPs
To ensure that lease and grant operations are conducted in a manner that is safe and protects the environment. To ensure compliance with other Federal laws, these regulations, the lease or grant, and approved plans.
(6) Subpart I—Decommissioning
To determine that decommissioning activities comply with regulatory requirements and approvals. To ensure that site clearance and platform or pipeline removal are properly performed to protect marine life and the environment and do not conflict with other users of the OCS.
(7) Subpart J—Rights of Use and Easement for Energy- and Marine- Related Activities Using Existing OCS Facilities
To enable BSEE to review information regarding the design, installation, and operation of RUEs on the OCS, to ensure that RUE operations are safe and protect the human, marine, and coastal environment. To ensure compliance with other Federal laws, these regulations, the RUE grant, and where applicable, the approved plan.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023; 88 FR 54880, Aug. 14, 2023]
§ 285.115
Documents incorporated by reference.
Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at BSEE and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact BSEE at: BSEE, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, Virginia 20166, phone: 703-787-1665. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov
. The material is available from the American Petroleum Institute (API), 200 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Suite 1100, Washington, DC 20001-5571; phone (202) 682-8000; website:
www.api.org
or
https://publications.api.org
.
(a) API RP 2A-WSD, Recommended Practice for Planning, Designing and Constructing Fixed Offshore Platforms—Working Stress Design; Twenty-first Edition, December 2000; Errata and Supplement 1, December 2002; Errata and Supplement 2, September 2005; Errata and Supplement 3, October 2007. IBR approved for § 285.825(a), (b).
(b) [Reserved]
§ 285.116
Requests for information on the state of the offshore renewable energy industry.
BSEE may publish a request for information (RFI) in the
Federal Register
to solicit information from industry, State and local agencies, federally recognized Tribes, and other interested entities for evaluating the offshore renewable energy industry, including the identification of potential challenges or obstacles to its continued development. An RFI may relate to the identification of environmental, technical, regulatory, or economic matters that promote or detract from continued development of renewable energy technologies on the OCS. BSEE may use the information received to refine its renewable energy program, including to facilitate OCS renewable energy development in a safe and environmentally responsible manner and to ensure a fair return to the United States for use of the OCS.
[89 FR 42714, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.117
Severability.
If a court holds any provisions of this subpart or their applicability to any persons or circumstances invalid, the remainder of the provisions and their applicability to any persons or circumstances will not be affected.
[89 FR 42714, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.118
What are my appeal rights?
(a) Any party adversely affected by a final decision issued by BSEE under this part may appeal that decision to
the Interior Board of Land Appeals (IBLA), under 30 CFR part 290 and 43 CFR part 4, subpart E.
(b) Any final decision will remain in full force and effect during the pendency of an appeal unless a stay is granted pursuant to 43 CFR part 4.
[89 FR 42714, May 15, 2024]
Subparts B and C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Lease and Grant Administration

# Noncompliance and Cessation Orders
§ 285.400
What happens if I fail to comply with this part?
(a) BSEE may take appropriate corrective action under this part if you fail to comply with applicable provisions of Federal law, the regulations in this part, other applicable regulations, any order of the Director, the provisions of a lease or grant issued under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586, or the requirements of an approved plan or other approval under this part or 30 CFR parts 585 or 586.
(b) BSEE may issue to you a notice of noncompliance if we determine that there has been a violation of the regulations in this part, any order of the Director, or any provision of your lease, grant or other approval issued under this part or 30 CFR parts 585 or 586. When issuing a notice of noncompliance, BSEE will serve you at your last known address.
(c) A notice of noncompliance will tell you how you failed to comply with this part, any order of either Director, and/or the provisions of your lease, grant or other approval, and will specify what you must do to correct the noncompliance and the time limits within which you must act.
(d) Failure of a lessee, operator, or grant holder under this part to take the actions specified in a notice of noncompliance within the time limit specified provides the basis for BSEE to issue a cessation order as provided in § 285.401, and/or a cancellation of the lease or grant as provided in § 285.437.
(e) If BSEE determines that any incident of noncompliance poses an imminent threat of serious or irreparable damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance, BSEE may include with its notice of noncompliance an order directing you to take immediate remedial action to alleviate threats and to abate the violation and, when appropriate, a cessation order.
(f) BSEE may assess civil penalties, as authorized by section 24 of the OCS Lands Act and as determined under the procedures set forth in 30 CFR part 250, subpart N, if you fail to comply with any provision of this part, or any term of a lease, grant, or order issued under the authority of this part:
(1) After notice of such failure and expiration of any reasonable period allowed for corrective action; or
(2) BSEE determines that the failure constitutes, or constituted, a threat of serious, irreparable, or immediate harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment.
(g) You may be subject to criminal penalties as authorized by section 24 of the OCS Lands Act.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42714, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.401
When may BSEE issue a cessation order?
(a) BSEE may issue a cessation order during the term of your lease or grant when you fail to comply with an applicable law; regulation; order; or provision of a lease, grant, plan, or BSEE or BOEM approval. Except as provided in § 285.400(e), BSEE will allow you a period of time to correct any noncompliance before issuing an order to cease activities.
(b) A cessation order will set forth what measures you are required to take, including reports you are required to prepare and submit to BSEE, to receive approval to resume activities on your lease or grant.
§ 285.402
What is the effect of a cessation order?
(a) Upon receiving a cessation order, you must cease all activities on your lease or grant, as specified in the order.
BSEE may authorize certain activities during the period of the cessation order.
(b) A cessation order will last for the period specified in the order or as otherwise specified by BSEE. If BSEE determines that the circumstances giving rise to the cessation order cannot be resolved within a reasonable time period, the Secretary may initiate cancellation of your lease or grant, as provided in § 285.437.
(c) A cessation order does not extend the term of your lease or grant for the period you are prohibited from conducting activities.
(d) You must continue to make all required payments on your lease or grant during the period a cessation order is in effect.
§ 285.403-285.405
[Reserved]

# Responsibility for Fulfilling Obligations
§ 285.406
Who is responsible for fulfilling lease and grant obligations?
(a) When you are not the sole lessee or grantee, you and your co-lessee(s) or co-grantee(s) are jointly and severally responsible for fulfilling your obligations under the lease or grant and the provisions of this part or 30 CFR parts 585 or 586, unless otherwise provided in this part.
(b) If your designated operator fails to fulfill any of your obligations under the lease or grant and this part or 30 CFR parts 585 or 586, BSEE may require you or any or all of your co-lessees or co-grantees to fulfill those obligations or other operational obligations under the OCS Lands Act, the lease, grant, or the regulations.
(c) Whenever the regulations in this part or 30 CFR parts 585 or 586 require the lessee or grantee to conduct an activity in a prescribed manner, the lessee or grantee and operator (if one has been designated) are jointly and severally responsible for complying with the regulations.
§ 285.407-285.414
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Suspension
§ 285.415
What is a lease or grant suspension?
(a) A suspension is an interruption of the term of your lease or grant that may occur as ordered by BSEE, as provided in § 285.417; or as approved or ordered by BOEM, as provided in 30 CFR 585.416 and 585.417.
(b) A suspension extends the expiration date for the relevant period of your lease or grant for the length of time the suspension is in effect.
(c) Activities may not be conducted on your lease or grant during the period of a suspension except as expressly authorized under the terms of the suspension.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42714, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.416
[Reserved]
§ 285.417
When may BSEE order a suspension?
(a) BSEE may order a suspension under the following circumstances:
(1) When necessary to comply with judicial decrees prohibiting some or all activities under your lease; or
(2) When continued activities pose an imminent threat of serious or irreparable harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance.
(b) If BSEE orders a suspension under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and if you wish to resume activities, we may require you to conduct a site-specific study that evaluates the cause of the harm, the potential damage, and the available mitigation measures. Other requirements and actions may occur:
(1) You may be required to pay for the study;
(2) You must furnish an electronic copy of the study and results to BSEE pursuant to § 285.110;
(3) We will make the results available to other interested parties and to the public; and
(4) We will use the results of the study and any other information that become available:
(i) To decide if the suspension order can be lifted; and
(ii) To determine any actions that you must take to mitigate or avoid any damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42714, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.418
How will BSEE issue a suspension?
(a) BSEE will issue a suspension order orally or in writing.
(b) BSEE will send you a written suspension order as soon as practicable after issuing an oral suspension order.
(c) The written order will explain the reasons for its issuance and describe the effect of the suspension order on your lease or grant and any associated activities. BSEE may authorize certain activities during the period of the suspension, as set forth in the suspension order.
§ 285.419
What are my immediate responsibilities if I receive a suspension order?
You must comply with the terms of a suspension order upon receipt and take any action prescribed within the time set forth therein.
§ 285.420
What effect does a suspension order have on my payments?
If BSEE orders a suspension, as provided in § 285.417, BOEM may waive or defer your payment obligations during the suspension. BOEM's decision to waive or defer payments will depend on the reasons for the suspension, including your responsibility for the circumstances necessitating a suspension.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42714, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.421
How long will a suspension be in effect?
A suspension will be in effect for the period specified by BSEE. If BSEE determines that the circumstances giving rise to a suspension ordered under § 285.417 cannot be resolved within 5 years, the Secretary may initiate cancellation of the lease or grant, as provided in § 285.437.
§§ 285.422-285.432
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Termination
§ 285.433
What must I do after my lease or grant terminates?
(a) After your lease or grant terminates, you must:
(1) Make all payments due; and
(2) Perform any other outstanding obligations under the lease or grant within 6 months.
(b) Within 2 years following termination of a lease or grant, you must remove or dispose of all facilities, installations, and other devices permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed on the OCS in accordance with your Plan approved by BOEM under 30 CFR part 585, subpart F, and your application approved by BSEE under subpart I of this part.
(c) If you fail to comply with your approved decommissioning plan or application:
(1) BOEM may call for the forfeiture of your financial assurance; and
(2) You remain liable for removal or disposal costs and responsible for accidents or damages that might result from such failure.
§§ 285.434-285.436
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Cancellation
§ 285.437
When can my lease or grant be canceled?
(a) The Secretary will cancel any lease or grant issued under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586 upon proof that it was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation, and after notice and opportunity to be heard has been afforded to the lessee or grant holder.
(b) The Secretary may cancel any lease or grant issued under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586 when:
(1) The Secretary determines after notice and opportunity for a hearing that, with respect to the lease or grant that would be canceled, the lessee or grantee has failed to comply with any applicable provision of the OCS Lands Act or these regulations; any order of
the Director; or any term, condition or stipulation contained in the lease or grant, and that the failure to comply continued 30 days (or other period BSEE specifies) after you receive notice from BSEE. The Secretary will mail a notice by registered or certified letter to the lessee or grantee at its record post office address;
(2) Required by national security or defense; or
(3) The Secretary determines after notice and opportunity for a hearing that continued activity under the lease or grant:
(i) Would cause serious harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance;
(ii) That the threat of harm or damage would not disappear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a reasonable period of time; and
(iii) The advantages of cancellation outweigh the advantages of continuing the lease or grant in force.
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Information Requirements
§§ 285.600-285.601
[Reserved]
§ 285.602
What records must I maintain?
Until BOEM releases your financial assurance under 30 CFR 585.534, you must maintain and provide to BSEE, upon request, all data and information related to compliance with the required terms and conditions of your lease, grant, reports submitted under this part and approved plans.
[89 FR 42715, May 15, 2024]
§§ 285.603-285.613
[Reserved]

# Activities Under an Approved SAP
§ 285.614
When may I begin conducting activities under my approved SAP?
(a) You may begin conducting the activities approved in your SAP following BOEM approval of your SAP.
(b) If you are installing a facility or a combination of facilities deemed by BOEM to be complex or significant, as provided in 30 CFR 585.613(a)(1), you must comply with the requirements of subpart G of this part and submit the Safety Management System (SMS) description required by § 285.810 before construction may begin.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42715, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.615
What other reports or notices must I submit to BSEE under my approved SAP?
(a) You must notify BSEE in writing within 30 days of completing installation activities approved in your SAP.
(b) You must submit a certification of compliance annually (or other frequency as determined by BOEM) with those terms and conditions of your SAP that BOEM identifies under 30 CFR 585.613(e)(1). Together with your certification, you must submit:
(1) Summary reports that show compliance with the terms and conditions which require certification; and
(2) A statement identifying and describing any mitigation measures and monitoring methods and their effectiveness. If you identified measures that were not effective, you must include your recommendations for new mitigation measures or monitoring methods.
§§ 285.616-285.630
[Reserved]

# Activities Under an Approved COP
§ 285.631
When must I initiate activities under an approved COP?
After your COP is approved, you must commence construction by the date given in the construction schedule required by 30 CFR 585.626(b)(21), and included as a part of your approved COP, unless BOEM approves a deviation from your schedule.
§ 285.632
What documents must I submit before I may construct and install facilities under my approved COP?
(a) You must submit to BSEE the documents listed in the following table:
Document:
Requirements are found in:
(1) Facility Design Report
§ 285.701
(2) Fabrication and Installation Report
§ 285.702
(b) You must submit your safety management system, as required by § 285.810.
(c) These activities must fall within the scope of your approved COP. If they do not fall within the scope of your approved COP, you will be required to submit a revision to your COP, under 30 CFR 585.634, for BOEM approval before commencing the activity.
§ 285.633
How do I comply with my COP?
(a) You must submit a certification of compliance annually (or other frequency as determined by BOEM) with certain terms and conditions of your COP that BOEM identifies. Together with your certification, you must submit:
(1) Summary reports that show compliance with the terms and conditions which require certification; and
(2) A statement identifying and describing any mitigation measures and monitoring methods, and their effectiveness. If you identified measures that were not effective, then you must make recommendations for new mitigation measures or monitoring methods.
(b) As provided at § 285.105(i), BSEE may require you to submit any supporting data and information.
§§ 285.634-285.635
[Reserved]
§ 285.636
What notices must I provide BSEE following approval of my COP?
You must notify BSEE in writing of the following events, within the time periods provided:
(a) No later than 30 days after commencing activities associated with the placement of facilities on the lease area under a Fabrication and Installation Report.
(b) No later than 30 days after completion of construction and installation activities under a Fabrication and Installation Report.
(c) At least 7 days before commencing commercial operations.
§ 285.637
When may I commence commercial operations on my commercial lease?
(a) If you are conducting activities on your lease that do not require a FERC license (
i.e.,
wind power projects), then you may commence commercial operations after:
(1) You submit information consistent with § 285.702(c) and (d) for facilities installed prior to commencing commercial operations;
(2) Your CVA submits the project verification report, as described in § 285.708(a)(5), including information required by § 285.708(b)(1), or interim report(s), as described in § 285.712(a) for facilities installed prior to commencing commercial operations;
(3) Your CVA submits the Critical Safety Systems and Equipment commissioning records, as described in § 285.708(a)(6) or interim report(s), as described in § 285.712(a), for facilities installed prior to commencing commercial operations; and
(4) BSEE has not notified you of any objections to the submittals in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section within the timeframes in §§ 285.700(d) and 285.712(a), as applicable. You may continue commercial operations while BSEE reviews your submittals.
(b) To continue commercial operations as additional facilities complete commissioning, you must submit information in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section for facilities installed after commercial operations have commenced.
(c) You must notify BSEE within 10 business days after you commence commercial operations.
[89 FR 42715, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.638
What must I do upon completion of my commercial operations as approved in my COP or FERC license?
(a) Upon completion of your approved activities under your COP, you must decommission your project as set forth in subpart I of this part. You must submit your decommissioning application as provided in §§ 285.905 and 285.906.
(b) Upon completion of your approved activities under your FERC license, the
terms of your FERC license will govern your decommissioning activities.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42715, May 15, 2024]
§§ 285.639-285.649
[Reserved]

# Activities Under an Approved GAP
§ 285.650
When may I begin conducting activities under my GAP?
After BOEM approves your GAP, you may begin conducting the approved activities that do not involve a project easement or the construction of facilities on the OCS that BOEM has deemed to be complex or significant.
§ 285.651
When may I construct complex or significant OCS facilities on my limited lease or any facilities on my project easement proposed under my GAP?
If you are applying for a project easement, or installing a facility or a combination of facilities on your limited lease deemed by BOEM to be complex or significant, as provided in 30 CFR 585.648(a)(1), you also must comply with the requirements of subpart G of this part and submit your safety management system description required by § 285.810 before construction may begin.
§ 285.652
[Reserved]
§ 285.653
What other reports or notices must I submit to BSEE under my approved GAP?
(a) You must notify BSEE in writing within 30 days after completing installation activities approved in your GAP
(b) You must annually (or other frequency as determined by BOEM) submit a certification of compliance with those terms and conditions of your GAP that BOEM identifies under 30 CFR 585.648(e)(1). Together with your certification, you must submit:
(1) Summary reports that show compliance with the terms and conditions which require certification; and
(2) A statement identifying and describing any mitigation measures and monitoring methods and their effectiveness. If you identified measures that were not effective, you must include your recommendations for new mitigation measures or monitoring methods.
§§ 285.654-285.659
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Facility Design, Fabrication, and Installation

# Reports
§ 285.700
What reports must I submit to BSEE before installing facilities described in my approved SAP, COP, or GAP?
(a) You must submit the following reports to BSEE before installing facilities described in your approved COP (30 CFR 585.632(a)) and, when required by 30 CFR part 585, in your approved SAP (30 CFR 585.614(b)) or GAP (30 CFR 585.651):
(1) A Facility Design Report (FDR); and
(2) A Fabrication and Installation Report (FIR).
(b) You may submit separate FDRs and FIRs for integrated asset packages unless otherwise agreed to by BSEE (
e.g.,
wind turbine generator (WTG), offshore substation/electrical service platform, array cables, export cables, and seabed preparation). If you submit separate FDRs and FIRs by integrated asset packages, you must:
(1) Ensure FDR(s) and FIR(s) for integrated asset package(s) are complete (e.g., the WTG package includes the RNA, blades, tower, foundation, and transition piece, if applicable);
(2) Explain to BSEE how all FDR(s) and FIR(s) for integrated asset packages will function together effectively in an integrated manner in accordance with your project design; and
(3) Demonstrate that such integration has been verified by your CVA.
(c) You may submit your FDRs and FIRs before or after SAP, COP, or GAP approval.
(d) Subject to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, you may commence fabrication and installation of the facilities on the OCS as described in each report:
(1) If BSEE deems your report submitted before SAP, COP, or GAP approval and notifies you of its non-objection to the FDR and FIR or does not
respond with objections within 60 business days of SAP, COP, or GAP approval; or
(2) If BSEE deems your report submitted after SAP, COP, or GAP approval and notifies you of its non-objection to the FDR and FIR or does not respond with objections within 60 business days of the report being deemed submitted.
(e) You may commence procurement of discrete parts of the project that are commercially available in standardized form and type-certified components, or fabrication activities that do not take place on the OCS (e.g., manufacturing), prior to the submittal of the reports required under paragraph (a) of this section or any plans required under 30 CFR parts 585 and 586. The procurement and fabrication of facility components allowed under this section are subject to verification and certification by your CVA, and BSEE may object to the installation of said components on the OCS if it considers that the components or their fabrication are inconsistent with accepted industry or engineering standards, the approved SAP, COP, or GAP, the FDR or FIR, or BSEE's regulations.
(f) If BSEE has objections, we will notify you in writing within 60 business days of the report being deemed submitted. Following initial notification of any objections, BSEE may follow up with written correspondence detailing its objections to the report and requesting that certain actions be undertaken. You cannot commence fabrication or installation activities on the OCS that are addressed in such reports until you resolve all objections to BSEE's satisfaction.
[89 FR 42715, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.701
What must I include in my Facility Design Report?
(a) Your Facility Design Report provides specific details of the design of any facilities, including cables and pipelines that are outlined in your BOEM-approved SAP, COP, or GAP. Your Facility Design Report must demonstrate that your design conforms to your responsibilities listed in § 285.105(a). You must include the following items in your Facility Design Report:
Required documents
Required contents
(1) Cover letter
(i) Proposed facility designations:
(ii) Lease, ROW grant or RUE grant number;
(iii) Area; name and block numbers; and
(iv) The type of facility.
(2) Location plat
(i) Latitude and longitude coordinates, Universal Mercator grid-system coordinates, State plane coordinates in the Lambert or Transverse Mercator Projection System;
(ii) Distances in feet from the nearest block lines. These coordinates must be based on the NAD (North American Datum) 83 datum plane coordinate system; and
(iii) The location of any project easements.
(3) Front, Side, and Plan View drawings
(i) Facility dimensions and orientation;
(ii) Elevations relative to Mean Lower Low Water; and
(iii) Pile sizes and penetration.
(4) Complete set of structural drawings
The approved for construction fabrication drawings should be submitted including, e.g.,
(i) Cathodic protections systems;
(ii) Jacket design;
(iii) Pile foundations;
(iv) Mooring, tendon and tethering systems;
(v) Foundations and anchoring systems; and
(vi) Associated cable and pipeline designs.
(5) Summary of environmental data used for design
A summary of the environmental data used in the design or analysis of the facility. Examples of relevant data include information on:
(i) Extreme weather;
(ii) Seafloor conditions; and
(iii) Waves, wind, current, tides, temperature, snow and ice effects, marine growth, and water depth.
(6) Summary of the engineering design data
(i) Loading information (
e.g.,
live, dead, environmental);
(ii) Structural information (
e.g.,
design-life; material types; cathodic protection systems; design criteria; fatigue life; jacket design; deck design; production component design; foundation pilings and templates, and mooring, tethering or tendon systems; fabrication and installation guidelines);
(iii) Location of foundation boreholes and foundation piles;
(iv) Foundation information (e.g., soil stability, design criteria); and
(v) For a floating facility, structural integrity, stability, and ballast information. This includes foundations, piles, templates, anchors or anchor systems, mooring, tethering and tendon systems.
(7) A complete set of design calculations
Self-explanatory.
(8) Project-specific studies used in the facility design or installation
All studies pertinent to facility design or installation, e.g., oceanographic and soil reports including the results of the survey required in 30 CFR 585.610(b), 585.626(b), or 585.645(b).
(9) Description of the loads imposed on the facility
(i) Loads imposed by the jacket;
(ii) Decks;
(iii) Production components;
(iv) Foundations, foundation pilings and templates, and anchoring systems; and
(v) Mooring, tendon or tethering systems.
(10) Geotechnical reports
Reports and supporting data from geotechnical surveys,
in situ
explorations, laboratory tests, analyses, burial or drivability assessments, and recommended design parameters.
(11) Design Standards
The industry standards you will apply to ensure the facilities are designed to meet § 285.105.
(12) Critical Safety Systems and Equipment
A risk assessment that identifies the Critical Safety Systems and Equipment and a description of the identified Critical Safety System and Equipment.
(13) Other information
Additional information required by BSEE.
(b) For any floating facility, your design must meet the requirements of the U.S. Coast Guard for structural integrity and stability (
e.g.,
verification of center of gravity) as listed in paragraph (a)(6)(v) of this section. The design must also consider:
(1) Foundations, foundation pilings and templates, and anchoring systems; and
(2) Mooring, tendon, or tethering systems.
(c) You must submit your FDR to BSEE pursuant to § 285.110 and provide the location of records, as required in § 285.714(c).
(d) If you are required to use a CVA, the FDR must include the following certification statement with accompanying justification: “The design of this structure has been certified by a BSEE-approved CVA to be in accordance with accepted engineering practices and the approved SAP, GAP, or COP, as applicable, and has been designed to provide for safety. The certified design and as-built plans and specifications will be on file at [provide location].”
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42715, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.702
What must I include in my Fabrication and Installation Report?
(a) Your Fabrication and Installation Report must describe how your facilities will be fabricated and installed in accordance with the design criteria identified in the Facility Design Report; your BOEM-approved SAP, COP, or GAP; and generally accepted industry standards and practices. Your Fabrication and Installation Report must demonstrate how your facilities will be fabricated and installed in a manner that conforms to your responsibilities listed in § 285.105(a). You must include the following items in your Fabrication and Installation Report:
Required documents
Required contents
(1) Cover letter
(i) Proposed facility designation, lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant number;
(ii) Area, name, and block number; and
(iii) The type of facility.
(2) Schedule
Fabrication and installation schedule information.
(3) Fabrication information
The industry standards you will use to ensure the facilities are fabricated to the design criteria identified in your Facility Design Report.
(4) Installation process information
Details associated with the deployment activities, equipment, and materials, including onshore and offshore equipment and support, and anchoring and mooring patterns.
(5) Federal, State, and local permits (
e.g.,
EPA, Army Corps of Engineers)
Either one copy of the permit or information on the status of the application.
(6) Quality assurance
Certificates ensuring adherence to a nationally or internationally recognized quality assurance standard. Alternate means of compliance must be approved on a case-by-case basis.
(7) Environmental information
Information about:
(i) Water discharge;
(ii) Waste disposal;
(iii) Vessel information;
(iv) Onshore waste receiving treatment or disposal facilities; and
(v) If you submitted this data as part of your SAP, COP, or GAP, you may incorporate the information by reference.
(8) Commissioning procedures for Critical Safety Systems and Equipment
Original equipment manufacturer procedures or other BSEE accepted engineering practices for commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment as identified in § 285.701(a)(12).
(9) Project easement
Information about installation of any cables, pipelines, or facilities. Information on burial methods and vessels.
(10) Other information
Additional information required by BSEE.
(b) You must submit your FIR to BSEE pursuant to § 285.110.
(c) You must provide the location of records, as required in § 285.714(c).
(d) If you are required to use a CVA, the FIR must include the following certification statement with accompanying justification: “The fabrication and installation of this structure has been certified by a BSEE-approved CVA to be in accordance with accepted engineering practices, the FDR, and the approved SAP, GAP, or COP, as applicable. The certified design and as-built plans and specifications will be on file at [provide location].”
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42716, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.703
What reports must I submit for project modifications and repairs?
(a) You must submit a Project Modification or Repair Report to BSEE in which you certify that major repairs and major modifications of renewable energy structures and crucial components to a completed project conform to accepted engineering practices.
(1) A “major repair” is a corrective action involving structural members affecting the structural integrity of all or a portion of the facility or substantial repair of a Critical Safety Systems and Equipment, including those identified in your FDR.
(2) A “major modification” is an alteration involving structural members affecting the structural integrity of all or a portion of the facility or substantial alteration of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment, including those as identified in your FDR.
(b) The report must also identify the location of all records pertaining to the major repairs or major modifications, as required in § 285.714(c).
(c) If you are required to use a CVA, the report described in paragraph (a) of this section must include the following certification statement with accompanying justification: “The [major modification or major repair] of this [structure or Critical Safety Systems and Equipment] has been certified by a BSEE-approved CVA to be in accordance with accepted engineering practices, the FDR, and the approved SAP, GAP, or COP as applicable.”
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42717, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.704
After receiving the FDR, FIR, or project verification reports, what will BSEE do?
(a)
Determine whether the report is deemed submitted.
Within 20 business days after receiving your proposed FDR, FIR, or project verification report, BSEE will review your submission. BSEE will deem your FDR, FIR, or project verification report submitted if BSEE determines it is sufficiently complete and accurate to fulfill the applicable requirements of § 285.701, § 285.702, or § 285.712.
(b)
Identify problems and deficiencies.
If BSEE determines that your submission has not met the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section, BSEE will notify you of the problem or deficiency within 20 business days after BSEE receives your FDR, FIR, or project verification report. BSEE will not deem your FDR, FIR, or project verification report submitted until you have corrected all problems or deficiencies identified in the notice.
(c)
Notify you when the report is deemed submitted.
BSEE will notify you
when the FDR, FIR, or project verification reports are deemed submitted. If BSEE has not notified you within 20 business days that your report has problems or deficiencies, it is deemed submitted. Until your report is deemed submitted, the time period in § 285.700(d) does not begin running.
[89 FR 42717, May 15, 2024]

# Certified Verification Agent
§ 285.705
When must I use a Certified Verification Agent (CVA)?
(a) Unless BSEE waives this requirement under paragraph (c) of this section, you must use one or more CVAs to review and verify your FDRs, FIRs, and the Project Modification and Repair Reports.
(b) The purpose of a CVA is to:
(1) Ensure that your facilities are designed, fabricated, and installed in conformance with accepted engineering practices and the FDR(s) and FIR(s); and that the design of the facilities is suitable for the location where they will be installed;
(2) Ensure Critical Safety Systems and Equipment are commissioned in accordance with the procedures identified in § 285.702(a)(8);
(3) Ensure that major repairs and major modifications are completed in conformance with accepted engineering practices; and
(4) Provide BSEE and you with reports of all incidents that affect the facility design, fabrication, and installation, including commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment, for the project and its components.
(c) BSEE may waive in whole or in part the requirement that you use a CVA if you can demonstrate the following:
If you demonstrate that . . .
Then BSEE may waive the requirement for a CVA for the following:
(1) The facility design conforms to a standard design that has been used successfully in a similar environment, and the installation design conforms to accepted engineering practices
The design of your structure(s).
(2) The relevant fabricator has successfully fabricated similar facilities, and the facility will be fabricated in conformance with accepted engineering practices and to a nationally or internationally recognized quality assurance standard
The fabrication of your structure(s).
(3) The installation company has successfully installed similar facilities in a similar offshore environment, and your structures will be installed in conformance with accepted engineering practices
The installation of your structure(s).
(4) Major repairs or major modifications will be completed in conformance with accepted engineering practices and to a nationally or internationally recognized quality assurance standard
The major repair or major modification on your structure(s).
(d) You must submit a request to waive, in whole or in part, the requirement to use a CVA to BSEE in writing.
(1) BSEE will review your request to waive, in whole or in part, the use of the CVA and notify you of its decision.
(2) If BSEE does not waive, in whole or in part, the requirement for a CVA, you may file an appeal under § 285.118.
(3) If BSEE waives, in whole or in part, the requirement that you use a CVA, your project engineer must perform the same duties and responsibilities as would have the CVA, except as otherwise provided. You must submit the project engineer's qualifications to BSEE as a part of your waiver request to demonstrate that your project engineer is a professional engineer with relevant experience and expertise in the facilities they will be verifying/certifying.
[89 FR 42717, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.706
How do I nominate a CVA for BSEE approval?
(a) A CVA must be nominated by the lessee and approved by BSEE before conducting any verification or certification activities for which they have been nominated. If you intend to use multiple CVAs, you must nominate a general project CVA who will manage the overall project verification and certification approach and who will ensure consistency and oversight among the CVAs, especially in transition areas between different CVAs. The general project CVA must be nominated no later than COP submission.
(b) For each CVA that you nominate, you must submit to BSEE a list of documents used in your design that you will forward to the CVA and a qualification statement that includes the following:
(1) Previous experience in third-party verification or experience in the design, fabrication, installation, or major modification of offshore energy facilities;
(2) Technical capabilities of the individual or the primary staff for the specific project, including relevant professional licenses, certifications, and accreditations;
(3) Size and type of organization or corporation;
(4) In-house availability of, or access to, appropriate technology (including computer programs, hardware, and testing materials and equipment);
(5) Ability to perform the CVA functions for the specific project considering current commitments;
(6) Previous experience with BOEM and BSEE requirements and procedures, if any; and
(7) The scope and level of work to be performed by the CVA, including all relevant reports and facilities that the CVA will verify or certify.
(c) Individuals or organizations acting as CVAs must not function in any capacity that will create a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest. The CVA must not have prepared, or been directly involved in, any work related to the preparation of design, fabrication, installation, modification, or repair plans for which they will provide verification or certification services.
(d) The verification and certification must be conducted by or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer.
(e) BSEE will approve or disapprove your CVA as part of BOEM's review of your COP or, when required, of your SAP or GAP.
(f) You must nominate a new CVA for BSEE approval if the previously approved CVA:
(1) Is no longer able to serve in a CVA capacity for the project; or
(2) No longer meets the requirements for a CVA set forth in this subpart.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42717, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.707
What are the CVA's primary duties for facility design review?
If you are required to use a CVA:
(a) The CVA must use good engineering judgment and practices in conducting an independent assessment of the design of the facility. The CVA must verify to BSEE that the facility is designed to withstand the environmental and functional load conditions appropriate for the intended service life at the proposed location and has been designed to minimize risk to personnel as required by § 285.105(a).
(b) The CVA must conduct an independent assessment of all proposed:
(1) Planning criteria;
(2) Operational requirements;
(3) Environmental loading data;
(4) Load determinations;
(5) Stress analyses;
(6) Material designations;
(7) Soil and foundation conditions;
(8) Safety factors;
(9) Risk assessments supporting the design for human safety and how the results are used in the design; and
(10) Other pertinent parameters of the proposed design.
(c) For any floating facility, the CVA or project engineer must also verify that any requirements of the U.S. Coast Guard for structural integrity and stability (e.g., verification of center of gravity), have been met. The CVA must also consider:
(1) Foundations, foundation pilings and templates, and anchoring systems; and
(2) Mooring, tendon or tethering systems.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42718, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.708
What are the CVA's or project engineer's primary duties for fabrication and installation review?
(a) The CVA or project engineer must do all of the following:
(1) Use good engineering judgment and practice in conducting an independent assessment of the fabrication and installation activities and of the
commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment;
(2) Monitor the fabrication and installation of the facility and the commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment as required by paragraph (b) of this section;
(3) Make periodic onsite inspections while fabrication is in progress and verify the items required by § 285.709;
(4) Make periodic onsite inspections while installation is in progress and satisfy the requirements of § 285.710;
(5) Certify in Project Verification Reports that project components are fabricated and installed in accordance with accepted engineering practices and to a nationally or internationally recognized quality assurance standard or to an equivalent alternate means of quality assurance considered on a case-by-case basis, your BOEM-approved SAP, COP, or GAP (as applicable), and your FIR. If multiple CVAs are involved in your project, the general project CVA must submit the final report containing such certification for the project. The Project Verification Report must identify the location of all records pertaining to facility fabrication and installation as required in § 285.714(c);
(6) Provide records documenting that Critical Safety Systems and Equipment are commissioned in accordance with the procedures identified in § 285.702(a)(8); and
(7) Identify the location of all records pertaining to commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment, as required in § 285.714(c).
(b) To comply with paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) of this section, the CVA or project engineer must monitor the fabrication and installation of the facility and the commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment to certify that they have been built and installed according to your FDRs and FIRs.
(1) If the CVA or project engineer finds that either fabrication and installation procedures or Critical Safety Systems and Equipment commissioning procedures, or both, have been changed or design specifications have been modified, the CVA or project engineer must inform you and BSEE; and
(2) If you accept the modifications, you must also inform BSEE.
[89 FR 42718, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.709
When conducting onsite fabrication inspections, what must the CVA or project engineer verify?
(a) To comply with § 285.708(a)(3), the CVA or project engineer must make periodic onsite inspections while fabrication is in progress and must verify the following fabrication items, as appropriate:
(1) Quality control by lessee (or grant holder) and builder;
(2) Fabrication site facilities;
(3) Material quality and identification methods;
(4) Fabrication procedures specified in your FIRs and adherence to such procedures;
(5) Welder and welding procedure qualification and identification;
(6) Structural tolerances specified, and adherence to those tolerances;
(7) Nondestructive examination requirements and evaluation results of the specified examinations;
(8) Destructive testing requirements and results;
(9) Repair procedures;
(10) Installation of corrosion-protection systems and splash-zone protection;
(11) Erection procedures to ensure that overstressing of structural members does not occur;
(12) Alignment procedures;
(13) Dimensional check of the overall structure, including any turrets, turret-and-hull interfaces, any mooring line and chain and riser tensioning line segments, and tendon or tethering systems; and
(14) Status of quality-control records at various stages of fabrication.
(b) For any floating facility, the CVA or project engineer must also verify that any requirements of the U.S. Coast Guard for structural integrity and stability (e.g., verification of center of gravity) have been met. The CVA or project engineer must also consider:
(1) Foundations, foundation pilings and templates, and anchoring systems; and
(2) Mooring, tendon, or tethering systems.
[89 FR 42719, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.710
When conducting onsite installation inspections, what must the CVA or project engineer do?
(a) To comply with § 285.708(a)(4), the CVA or project engineer must make periodic onsite inspections while installation is in progress and must, as appropriate, verify, witness, survey, or check the installation and commissioning of items required by this section.
(b) The CVA or project engineer must verify, as appropriate, all of the following:
(1) Loadout and initial flotation procedures;
(2) Towing operation procedures to the specified location, including a review of the towing records;
(3) Launching and uprighting activities;
(4) Submergence activities;
(5) Pile or anchor installations;
(6) Installation of mooring, tendon, and tethering systems;
(7) Final deck and component installations;
(8) Installation at the locations set forth in your FDR(s) and FIR(s); and
(9) Commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment.
(c) For a fixed or floating facility, the CVA or project engineer must verify that proper procedures were used during the following:
(1) The loadout of the jacket, decks, piles, or structures from each fabrication site;
(2) The actual installation of the facility or major modification and the related installation activities; and
(3) Commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment.
(d) For a floating facility, the CVA or project engineer must verify structural integrity, stability, and ballast, and that proper procedures were used during the following:
(1) The loadout of the facility;
(2) The installation of foundation pilings and templates, and anchoring systems; and
(3) The installation of the mooring and tethering and tendon systems.
(e) The CVA or project engineer must conduct an onsite inspection of the installed facility as approved in your CVA scope of work.
(f) The CVA or project engineer must make periodic onsite inspections to witness the commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment in order to verify that:
(1) The Critical Safety Systems and Equipment function as designed; and
(2) The final commissioning Critical Safety Systems and Equipment records are complete.
(g) The CVA or project engineer must spot-check the equipment, procedures, and recordkeeping as necessary to determine compliance with the applicable documents incorporated by reference and the regulations under this part.
[89 FR 42719, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.711
[Reserved]
§ 285.712
What are the CVA's or project engineer's reporting requirements?
(a) The CVA or project engineer must prepare and submit to you and BSEE all reports and records required by this subpart. The CVA or project engineer must also submit interim reports to you and BSEE, as requested by BSEE. BSEE will review and respond within 30 days.
(b) For each report required by this subpart, the CVA or project engineer must submit the final report to BSEE pursuant to § 285.110. In each report, the CVA or project engineer must:
(1) Give details of how, by whom, and when the CVA or project engineer activities were conducted;
(2) Describe the CVA's or project engineer's activities during the verification process;
(3) Summarize the CVA's or project engineer's findings; and
(4) Provide any additional comments that the CVA or project engineer deems necessary.
(5) Summarize any issues with the design and any incidents during facility fabrication and installation, or Critical Safety System and Equipment commissioning, and how those issues were resolved.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42717, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.713
[Reserved]
§ 285.714
What records relating to FDRs, FIRs, and Project Modification and Repair Reports must I keep?
(a) Until BOEM releases your financial assurance under 30 CFR 585.534, you must compile, retain, and make available to BSEE, within the time specified by BSEE, all of the following:
(1) The as-built drawings;
(2) The design assumptions and analyses;
(3) A summary of the fabrication and installation examination records;
(4) The records of the commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment;
(5) The inspection results from the inspections and assessments required by §§ 285.820 through 285.825; and
(6) Records of repairs not covered in the inspection report submitted under § 285.824(b)(3).
(b) You must record and retain the original material test results of all primary structural materials during all stages of construction until BOEM releases your financial assurance under 30 CFR 585.534. Primary material is material that, should it fail, would lead to a significant reduction in facility safety, structural reliability, or operating capabilities. Items such as steel brackets, deck stiffeners and secondary braces or beams would not generally be considered primary structural members (or materials).
(c) You must provide BSEE with the location of these records, as required in §§ 285.701(c) and (d), 285.702(c) and (d), 285.703(b), and 285.708(a)(5) and (7).
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42717, May 15, 2024]

# Subpart H—Environmental and Safety Management, Inspections, and Facility Assessments for Activities Conducted Under SAPs, COPs and GAPs
§ 285.800
How must I conduct my activities to comply with safety and environmental requirements?
(a) You must conduct all activities on your lease or grant under this part in a manner that conforms with your responsibilities in § 285.105(a), and using:
(1) Trained personnel; and
(2) Technologies, precautions, and techniques that will not cause undue harm or damage to natural resources, including their physical, atmospheric, and biological components.
(b) You must certify compliance with those terms and conditions identified in your approved SAP, COP, or GAP, as required under § 285.615(b), § 285.633(a), or § 285.653(b).
§ 285.801
How must I conduct my approved activities to protect marine mammals, threatened and endangered species, and designated critical habitat?
You must comply with all measures required under 30 CFR 585.701.
§ 285.802
What must I do if I discover a potential archaeological resource while conducting my approved activities?
You must comply with all measures required under 30 CFR 585.702.
§ 285.803
How must I conduct my approved activities to protect essential fish habitats identified and described under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act?
You must comply with all measures required under 30 CFR 585.703.
§§ 285.804-285.809
[Reserved]

# Safety Management Systems
§ 285.810
When must I submit a Safety Management System (SMS) and what must I include in my SMS?
You are required to use a Safety Management System (SMS) for activities conducted on the OCS to develop or operate a lease, from met buoy placement and site assessment work through decommissioning, and to provide your SMS to BSEE upon request. You must also submit a detailed description of the SMS with your COP (as provided in 30 CFR 585.627(d)) and, when required by this part, your SAP (as provided in § 285.614(b)) or GAP (as provided in § 285.651). Your SMS must address:
(a) How you will ensure the safety of your personnel or anyone else on or near your facilities, such as:
(1) Health and safety risks that anyone on your facilities or engaged in lease activities are likely to face during activities covered by the SMS;
(2) Policies and strategies that will be used to control such risks;
(3) Procedures and nationally or internationally recognized standards that will be followed to ensure the safety of the activities covered by the SMS;
(4) Methods that will be used to monitor the implementation of the SMS and maintain the safety of activities covered by the SMS, including management of change and stop work practices; and
(5) Procedures for personnel to report unsafe work conditions both to the lessee or its designated operator and to BSEE.
(b) Remote monitoring, control, and shut down capabilities, such as:
(1) Aspects of operations and mechanical and structural integrity that will be monitored remotely;
(2) Circumstances under which remote monitoring will be activated and how it will be maintained;
(3) Maintenance of the security of the remote sensing and control capabilities;
(4) Monitoring of conditions if remote sensing equipment fails; and
(5) Conditions that will result in the shutdown of one or more facilities.
(c) Emergency response procedures, such as:
(1) Types of incidents to be addressed (
e.g.,
serious injury to workers during maintenance, unexploded ordnance encountered during construction, damage due to hurricane or allision by vessels or aircraft, unauthorized access into remote monitoring capabilities, evacuation, and search and rescue);
(2) Potential response activities, including U.S. Coast Guard (USCG), other government agencies, and contractor support, for each category of incident;
(3) Management controls, authorities, and reporting to be employed for each response;
(4) Locations from which emergency response will be controlled; and
(5) Resources available to assist in the response.
(d) Fire suppression equipment, such as a description of how and when it will be used, if needed.
(e) How and when you will test your SMS, such as:
(1) Plans, processes, and schedules for:
(i) Self or third-party auditing of the SMS; and
(ii) Regular testing of certain SMS components, including remote shutdown capabilities and emergency response readiness; and
(2) Corrective action processes to improve the effectiveness of your SMS based on the results of audits, tests, investigations of incidents (including near-misses), feedback from the field, and other information sources.
(f) How you will ensure personnel who conduct activities on your facilities are properly trained and have the capability to safely perform duties, such as:
(1) Required training for personnel who conduct activities on your facilities; and
(2) Required knowledge and skills to ensure that personnel perform duties safely for the duration of activities.
[89 FR 42720, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.811
Am I required to obtain a certification of my SMS?
You are not required to obtain a certification that your SMS meets acceptable health and safety standards (
e.g.,
ANSI/ASSP Z10.0, API RP 75, ISO 45001) from a recognized accreditation organization. However, BSEE will consider such certification in determining the frequency and scope of SMS-related inspections that it conducts under this subpart, as well as the scope and nature of its oversight over any audit-induced corrective actions.
[89 FR 42720, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.812
How must I implement my SMS?
(a) Your SMS must be functional before you begin, and must remain functional while you perform, any activity
on the OCS pursuant to a lease, including met buoy placement and site assessment work, or for any activities described in your approved SAP, COP, or GAP. You must conduct all activities described in your approved SAP, COP, or GAP in accordance with the SMS you described under § 285.810.
(b) You must regularly demonstrate to BSEE that your SMS is being implemented effectively by submitting the following to BSEE in accordance with § 285.110:
(1) By March 31st of each year, summarize safety and work hour performance data for the prior calendar year in which you conducted site assessment, construction, operations, or decommissioning activities in accordance with your lease terms, using a form available on the BSEE website; and
(2) Once every 3 years and upon BSEE's request, provide a report to BSEE summarizing the results of your most recent SMS audit, corrective actions implemented or being implemented as a result of that audit, and an updated description of your SMS highlighting changes that were made since the last such submission to BSEE.
[89 FR 42720, May 15, 2024]

# Maintenance and Shutdowns
§ 285.813
When do I have to report removing equipment from service?
(a) The removal of any equipment from service may result in BSEE applying remedies, as provided in this part, when such equipment is necessary for implementing your approved plan. Such remedies may include an order from BSEE requiring you to replace or remove such equipment or facilities.
(b)(1) You must report within 24 hours when equipment necessary for implementing your approved plan is removed from service for more than 12 hours. If you provide an oral notification, you must submit a written confirmation of this notice within 3-business days, as required by § 285.105(c);
(2) You do not have to report removing equipment necessary for implementing your plan if the removal is part of planned maintenance or repair activities; and
(3) You must notify BSEE when you return the equipment to service.
§ 285.814
[Reserved]

# Equipment Failure and Adverse Environmental Effects
§ 285.815
What must I do if I have facility damage or an equipment failure?
(a) If you have facility damage or the failure of a pipeline, cable, or other equipment necessary for you to implement your approved plan, you must make repairs as soon as practicable. If you have a major repair, you must submit a report to BSEE under § 285.703.
(b) If you are required to report any facility damage or failure under § 285.831, BOEM may require you to revise your SAP, COP, or GAP to describe how you will address the facility damage or failure as required by 30 CFR 585.634 (COP), 585.617 (SAP), or 585.655 (GAP). You must submit a report of the repairs to BSEE, as required in § 285.703.
(c) BSEE may require that you analyze cable, pipeline, or facility damage or failure to determine the cause. If requested by BSEE, you must submit a comprehensive written report of the failure or damage to BSEE as soon as available.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42720, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.816
What must I do if environmental or other conditions adversely affect a cable, pipeline, or facility?
If environmental or other conditions adversely affect a cable, pipeline, or facility so as to endanger the safety or the environment, you must:
(a) Submit a plan of corrective action to BSEE within 30 days of the discovery of the adverse effect.
(b) Take remedial action as described in your corrective action plan.
(c) Submit to the BSEE a report of the remedial action taken within 30 days after completion.
§§ 285.817-285.819
[Reserved]

# Inspections and Assessments
§ 285.820
Will BSEE conduct inspections?
BSEE may inspect OCS facilities and any vessels engaged in activities authorized under this part. When we conduct these inspections, we will:
(a) Verify that you are conducting activities in compliance with subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act; the regulations in this part; the terms, conditions, and stipulations of your lease or grant; approved plans; and other applicable laws and regulations.
(b) Determine whether proper safety equipment has been installed and is operating properly according to your SMS, as required in § 285.810.
[89 42720, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.821
Will BSEE conduct scheduled and unscheduled inspections?
BSEE may conduct both scheduled and unscheduled inspections.
[89 FR 42721, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.822
What must I do when BSEE conducts an inspection?
(a) When BSEE conducts an inspection, you must:
(1) Provide access to all facilities on your lease (including your project easement) or grant and any vessels engaged in activities authorized under this part; and
(2) Make the following available for BSEE to inspect:
(i) The area covered under a lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant;
(ii) All improvements, structures, and fixtures on these areas; and
(iii) All records of design, construction, operation, maintenance, repairs, or investigations on or related to the area.
(b) You must retain the records referenced in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section until BOEM releases your financial assurance under 30 CFR585.534 and provide them to BSEE upon request within the time period specified by BSEE.
(c) You must demonstrate to the inspector how you are in compliance with your safety management system.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42721, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.823
Will BSEE reimburse me for my expenses related to inspections?
Upon request, BSEE will reimburse you for food, quarters, and transportation that you provide for our representatives while they inspect your lease or grant facilities and associated activities. You must send us your reimbursement request within 90 days of the inspection.
§ 285.824
How must I conduct self-inspections?
(a) You must develop a comprehensive self-inspection plan covering all of your facilities. You must keep this self-inspection plan wherever you keep your records and make it available to BSEE upon request. Your self-inspection plan must specify:
(1) The type, extent, and frequency of inspections that you will conduct for both the above-water and the below-water structures of all facilities and pertinent components of the mooring, tendon, or tethering systems for any floating facilities;
(2) How you will monitor the corrosion protections for both above-water and below-water structures; and
(3) How you will fulfill the requirement for annual on-site inspection of all Critical Safety Systems and Equipment.
(b) You must conduct an onsite inspection of each of your facilities at least once a year. This inspection must include, but is not limited to, all Critical Safety Systems and Equipment.
(1) You must develop and retain summary reports for all such inspections for each calendar year. The summary report must note any failures of operability, required maintenance of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment, or required replacement of the Critical Safety Systems and Equipment identified during inspection.
(2) You must retain records of inspections and summary reports for the previous 2 calendar years and make them available to BSEE on request.
(c) You must submit a report annually to BSEE no later than November 1st that must include:
(1) A list of facilities inspected for structural condition and corrosion protection in the preceding 12 months;
(2) The type of inspection employed (
i.e.,
visual, magnetic particle, ultrasonic testing); and
(3) A summary of the inspection indicating what repairs, if any, were needed and the overall structural condition of the facility.
[89 FR 42721, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.825
When must I assess my facilities?
(a) You must perform an assessment of the structure, when needed, based on the platform assessment initiators listed in sections 17.2.1-17.2.5 of API RP 2A-WSD (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 285.115).
(b) You must initiate mitigation actions for structures that do not pass the assessment process of API RP 2A-WSD.
(c) You may comply with a later edition of API RP 2A-WSD only if:
(1) You show that complying with the later edition provides a degree of protection, safety, or performance equal to or better than what would be achieved by compliance with the listed edition; and
(2) You obtain the prior written approval for alternative compliance from the authorized BSEE official.
(d) You must perform other assessments as required by BSEE.
§§ 285.826-285.829
[Reserved]

# Incident Reporting and Investigation
§ 285.830
What are my incident reporting requirements?
(a) You must report all incidents listed in § 285.831 to BSEE, according to the reporting requirements for these incidents in §§ 285.832 through 285.833.
(b) These reporting requirements apply to incidents that occur on the area covered by your lease or grant and that are related to activities resulting from the exercise of your rights under your lease or grant.
(c) Nothing in this subpart relieves you from providing notices and reports of incidents that may be required by other regulatory agencies.
(d) You must report all spills of oil or other liquid pollutants in accordance with 30 CFR 250.187(d).
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42721, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.831
What incidents must I report, and when must I report them?
(a) You must report the following incidents to us immediately via oral communication, and provide a written follow-up report (paper copy or electronically transmitted) within 15-business days after the incident:
(1) Fatalities;
(2) Incidents that require the evacuation of person(s) from the facility to shore or to another offshore facility;
(3) Fires and explosions;
(4) Collisions that result in property or equipment damage greater than $25,000. (Collision means the act of a moving vessel (including an aircraft) striking another vessel, or striking a stationary vessel or object. Property or equipment damage means the cost of labor and material to restore all affected items to their condition before the damage, including, but not limited to, the OCS facility, a vessel, a helicopter, or the equipment. It does not include the cost of salvage, cleaning, dry docking, or demurrage);
(5) Incidents involving structural damage to an OCS facility that is severe enough so that activities on the facility cannot continue until repairs are made;
(6) Incidents involving crane or personnel/material handling activities, if they result in a fatality, injury, structural damage, or significant environmental damage;
(7) Incidents that damage or disable safety systems or equipment (including firefighting systems);
(8) Other incidents resulting in property or equipment damage greater than $25,000; and
(9) Any other incidents involving significant environmental damage, or harm.
(b) You must provide a written report of the following incidents to us within 15 days after the incident:
(1) Any injuries that result in the injured person not being able to return to
work or to all of their normal duties the day after the injury occurred; and
(2) All incidents that require personnel on the facility to muster for evacuation for reasons not related to weather or drills.
§ 285.832
How do I report incidents requiring immediate notification?
For an incident requiring immediate notification under § 285.831(a), you must notify BSEE verbally after aiding the injured and stabilizing the situation. Your verbal communication must provide the following information:
(a) Date and time of occurrence;
(b) Identification and contact information for the lessee, grant holder, or operator;
(c) Contractor, and contractor representative's name and telephone number (if a contractor is involved in the incident or injury/fatality);
(d) Lease number, OCS area, and block;
(e) Platform/facility name and number, or cable or pipeline segment number;
(f) Type of incident or injury/fatality;
(g) Activity at time of incident; and
(h) Description of the incident, damage, or injury/fatality.
§ 285.833
What are the reporting requirements for incidents requiring written notification?
(a) For any incident covered under § 285.831, you must submit a written report within 15 days after the incident to BSEE. The report must contain the following information:
(1) Date and time of occurrence;
(2) Identification and contact information for each lessee, grant holder, or operator;
(3) Name and telephone number of the contractor and the contractor's representative, if a contractor is involved in the incident or injury;
(4) Lease number, OCS area, and block;
(5) Platform/facility name and number, or cable or pipeline segment number;
(6) Type of incident or injury;
(7) Activity at time of incident;
(8) Description of incident, damage, or injury (including days away from work, restricted work, or job transfer), and any corrective action taken; and
(9) Property or equipment damage estimate (in U.S. dollars).
(b) You may submit a report or form prepared for another agency in lieu of the written report required by paragraph (a) of this section if the report or form contains all required information.
(c) BSEE may require you to submit additional information about an incident on a case-by-case basis.

# Subpart I—Decommissioning

# Decommissioning Obligations and Requirements
§ 285.900
Who must meet the decommissioning obligations in this subpart?
(a) Lessees are jointly and severally responsible for meeting decommissioning obligations for facilities on their leases, including all obstructions, as the obligations accrue and until each obligation is met.
(b) Grant holders are jointly and severally liable for meeting decommissioning obligations for facilities on their grant, including all obstructions, as the obligations accrue and until each obligation is met.
(c) If a lessee or grant holder has installed a facility on a lease or grant that was authorized by an authority other than BOEM and that approving authority has imposed a decommissioning obligation, such obligation will substitute for the requirements of this subpart. The decommissioning requirements in this subpart will apply to such a facility if the authorizing agency has not imposed or enforced a decommissioning obligation.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42721, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.901
When do I accrue decommissioning obligations?
You accrue decommissioning obligations when you are or become a lessee or grant holder, and you either install, construct, or acquire by a BOEM-approved assignment a facility, cable, or pipeline, or you create an obstruction to other uses of the OCS.
§ 285.902
What are the general requirements for decommissioning for facilities authorized under my SAP, COP, or GAP?
(a) Except as otherwise authorized under § 285.909, within 2 years following termination of a lease or grant, or earlier if BSEE determines a facility is no longer useful for operations, you must:
(1) Remove or decommission all facilities, projects, cables, pipelines, and obstructions;
(2) Clear the seafloor of all obstructions created by activities on your lease, including your project easement, or grant.
(b) Before decommissioning the facilities under your SAP, COP, or GAP, you must submit a decommissioning application to, and receive approval from, BSEE.
(c) The approval of the decommissioning concept in the SAP, COP, or GAP is not an approval of a decommissioning application. However, you may submit your complete decommissioning application to BSEE simultaneously with the SAP, COP, or GAP, so that it may undergo appropriate technical and regulatory reviews at that time.
(d) Following approval of your decommissioning application, you must submit a decommissioning notice under § 285.908 to BSEE at least 60 days before commencing decommissioning activities.
(e) If you, your subcontractors, or any agent acting on your behalf discovers any archaeological resource while conducting decommissioning activities, you must immediately halt bottom-disturbing activities within 1,000 feet of the discovery and report the discovery to us within 72 hours. BOEM will inform you how to conduct investigations to determine if the resource is significant and how to protect it in accordance with 30 CFR 585.702. You, your subcontractors, or any agent acting on your behalf must keep the location of the discovery confidential and must not take any action that may adversely affect the archaeological resource until we have made an evaluation and told you how to proceed.
(f) Provide BOEM with documentation of any coordination efforts you have made with the affected States, local, and Tribal governments.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42721, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.903
What are the requirements for decommissioning FERC-licensed hydrokinetic facilities?
You must comply with the decommissioning requirements in your BOEM-issued lease. If you fail to comply with the decommissioning requirements of your lease then:
(a) BOEM may call for the forfeiture of your bond or other financial assurance;
(b) You remain liable for removal or disposal costs and responsible for accidents or damages that might result from such failure; and
(c) BSEE may take enforcement action under § 285.400.
§ 285.904
Can I request a departure from the decommissioning requirements?
You may request a departure from the decommissioning requirements under § 285.103.

# Decommissioning Applications
§ 285.905
When must I submit my decommissioning application?
You must submit your decommissioning application upon the earliest of the following dates:
(a) Two (2) years before the expiration of your lease.
(b) Ninety (90) days after completion of your commercial activities on a commercial lease.
(c) Ninety (90) days after completion of your approved activities under a limited lease on a ROW grant or RUE grant.
(d) Ninety (90) days after cancellation, relinquishment, or other termination of your lease or grant.
(e) Ninety (90) calendar days after BSEE determines a facility is no longer useful for operations.
[88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42721, May 15, 2024]
§ 285.906
What must my decommissioning application include?
You must provide one paper copy and one electronic copy of the application.
Include the following information in the application, as applicable.
(a) Identification of the applicant including:
(1) Lease operator, ROW grant holder, or RUE grant holder;
(2) Address;
(3) Contact person and telephone number; and
(4) Shore base.
(b) Identification and description of the facilities, cables, or pipelines you plan to remove or propose to leave in place, as provided in § 285.909.
(c) A proposed decommissioning schedule for your lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant, including the expiration or relinquishment date and proposed month and year of removal.
(d) A description of the removal methods and procedures, including the types of equipment, vessels, and moorings (
i.e.,
anchors, chains, lines,
etc.
) you will use.
(e) A description of your site clearance activities.
(f) Your plans for transportation and disposal (including as an artificial reef) or salvage of the removed facilities, cables, or pipelines and any required approvals.
(g) A description of those resources, conditions, and activities that could be affected by or could affect your proposed decommissioning activities. The description must be as detailed as necessary to assist BSEE in complying with the NEPA and other relevant Federal laws.
(h) The results of any recent biological surveys conducted in the vicinity of the structure and recent observations of turtles or marine mammals at the structure site.
(i) Mitigation measures you will use to protect archaeological and sensitive biological features during removal activities.
(j) A description of measures you will take to prevent unauthorized discharge of pollutants, including marine trash and debris, into the offshore waters.
(k) A statement of whether or not you will use divers to survey the area after removal to determine any effects on marine life.
§ 285.907
How will BSEE process my decommissioning application?
(a) Based upon your inclusion of all the information required by § 285.906, BSEE will compare your decommissioning application with the decommissioning general concept in your approved SAP, COP, or GAP to determine what technical and environmental reviews are needed.
(b) You will likely have to revise your SAP, COP, or GAP, and BOEM will begin the appropriate NEPA analysis and other regulatory reviews as required, if BSEE determines that your decommissioning application would:
(1) Result in a significant change in the impacts previously identified and evaluated in your SAP, COP, or GAP;
(2) Require any additional Federal permits; or
(3) Propose activities not previously identified and evaluated in your SAP, COP, or GAP.
(c) During the review process, we may request additional information if we determine that the information provided is not sufficient to complete the review and approval process.
(d) Upon completion of the technical and environmental reviews, we may approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove your decommissioning application.
(e) If BSEE disapproves your decommissioning application, you must resubmit your application to address the concerns identified by BSEE.
§ 285.908
What must I include in my decommissioning notice?
(a) The decommissioning notice is distinct from your decommissioning application and may only be submitted following approval of your decommissioning application, as described in §§ 285.905 through 285.907. You must submit a decommissioning notice at least 60 days before you plan to begin decommissioning activities.
(b) Your decommissioning notice must include:
(1) A description of any changes to the approved removal methods and procedures in your approved decommissioning application, including changes to the types of vessels and equipment you will use; and
(2) An updated decommissioning schedule.
(c) BSEE will review your decommissioning notice and may require you to resubmit a decommissioning application if BSEE determines that your decommissioning activities would:
(1) Result in a significant change in the impacts previously identified and evaluated;
(2) Require any additional Federal permits; or
(3) Propose activities not previously identified and evaluated.

# Facility Removal
§ 285.909
When may facilities remain in place following termination of a lease or grant?
(a) In your decommissioning application, you may request that certain facilities authorized in your lease or grant remain in place for other activities authorized in this part, elsewhere in this subchapter, or by other applicable Federal law.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if BOEM authorizes facilities to remain in place, the former lessee or grantee under this part remains jointly and severally liable for decommissioning the facility unless satisfactory evidence is provided to BOEM showing that another party has assumed that responsibility and has secured adequate financial assurances.
(c) In your decommissioning application, identify facilities authorized by BOEM to be converted to an artificial reef or otherwise toppled in place.
§ 285.910
What must I do when I remove my facility?
(a) You must remove all facilities to a depth of 15 feet below the mudline, unless otherwise authorized by BSEE.
(b) Within 60 days after you remove a facility, you must verify to BSEE that you have cleared the site.
§ 285.911
[Reserved]

# Decommissioning Report
§ 285.912
After I remove a facility, cable, or pipeline, what information must I submit?
Within 60 days after you remove a facility, cable, or pipeline, you must submit a written report to BSEE that includes the following:
(a) A summary of the removal activities, including the date they were completed;
(b) A description of any mitigation measures you took; and
(c) If you used explosives, a statement signed by your authorized representative that certifies that the types and amount of explosives you used in removing the facility were consistent with those in the approved decommissioning application.

# Compliance With an Approved Decommissioning Application
§ 285.913
What happens if I fail to comply with my approved decommissioning application?
If you fail to comply with your approved decommissioning plan or application:
(a) BOEM may call for the forfeiture of your bond or other financial assurance;
(b) You remain liable for removal or disposal costs and responsible for accidents or damages that might result from such failure; and
(c) BSEE may take enforcement action under § 285.400.

# Subpart J—Rights of Use and Easement for Energy- and Marine-Related Activities Using Existing OCS Facilities

# Regulated Activities
§ 285.1000
What activities does this subpart regulate?
This subpart provides the general provisions for regulating activities that use (or propose to use) an existing OCS facility for energy- or marine-related purposes, that are not otherwise authorized under any other part of this subchapter or any other applicable
Federal statute. Activities authorized under any other part of this subchapter or under any other Federal law that use (or propose to use) an existing OCS facility are not subject to this subpart.
§§ 285.1001-285.1013
[Reserved]

# Alternate Use RUE Administration
§ 285.1014
When will BSEE suspend an Alternate Use RUE?
(a) BSEE may suspend an Alternate Use RUE if:
(1) Necessary to comply with judicial decrees;
(2) Continued activities pursuant to the Alternate Use RUE pose an imminent threat of serious or irreparable harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance; or
(3) Operation of the existing OCS facility that is subject to the Alternate Use RUE has been suspended or temporarily prohibited and we have determined that continued activities under the Alternate Use RUE are unsafe or cause undue interference with the operation of the original OCS Lands Act approved activity.
(b) A suspension will extend the term of your Alternate Use RUE grant for the period of the suspension.
§ 285.1015
[Reserved]
§ 285.1016
When will an Alternate Use RUE be cancelled?
The Secretary may cancel an Alternate Use RUE if it is determined, after notice and opportunity to be heard:
(a) You no longer qualify to hold an Alternate Use RUE;
(b) You failed to provide any additional financial assurance required by BOEM, replace or provide additional coverage for a de-valued bond, or replace a lapsed or forfeited bond within the prescribed time period;
(c) Continued activity under the Alternate Use RUE is likely to cause serious harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance;
(d) Continued activity under the Alternate Use RUE is determined to be adversely impacting the original OCS Lands Act approved activities on the existing OCS facility;
(e) You failed to comply with any of the terms and conditions of your approved Alternate Use RUE or your approved plan; or
(f) You otherwise failed to comply with applicable laws or regulations.
§ 285.1017
[Reserved]

# Decommissioning an Alternate Use RUE
§ 285.1018
Who is responsible for decommissioning an OCS facility subject to an Alternate Use RUE?
(a) The holder of an Alternate Use RUE is responsible for all decommissioning obligations that accrue following the issuance of the Alternate Use RUE and which pertain to the Alternate Use RUE.
(b) The lessee under the lease originally issued under 30 CFR chapter V will remain responsible for decommissioning obligations that accrued before issuance of the Alternate Use RUE, as well as for decommissioning obligations that accrue following issuance of the Alternate Use RUE to the extent associated with continued activities authorized under other parts of this title.
§ 285.1019
What are the decommissioning requirements for an Alternate Use RUE?
(a) Decommissioning requirements will be determined by BOEM and BSEE on a case-by-case basis, and will be included in the terms of the Alternate Use RUE.
(b) Decommissioning activities must be completed within 1 year of termination of the Alternate Use RUE.
(c) If you fail to satisfy all decommissioning requirements within the prescribed time period, BOEM will call for the forfeiture of your bond or other financial guarantee, and you will remain liable for all accidents or damages that might result from such failure.

# SUBCHAPTER C—APPEALS
Pt. 290

# PART 290—APPEAL PROCEDURES

# Subpart A—Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement Appeal Procedures
Sec.
290.1
What is the purpose of this subpart?
290.2
Who may appeal?
290.3
What is the time limit for filing an appeal?
290.4
How do I file an appeal?
290.5
Can I obtain an extension for filing my Notice of Appeal?
290.6
Are informal resolutions permitted?
290.7
Do I have to comply with the decision or order while my appeal is pending?
290.8
How do I exhaust my administrative remedies?
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 305; 43 U.S.C. 1334.

# Source:
76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement Appeal Procedures
§ 290.1
What is the purpose of this subpart?
The purpose of this subpart is to explain the procedures for appeals of Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) decisions and orders issued under 30 CFR chapter II.
§ 290.2
Who may appeal?
If you are adversely affected by a BSEE official's final decision or order issued under 30 CFR chapter II, you may appeal that decision or order to the Interior Board of Land Appeals (IBLA). Your appeal must conform with the procedures found in this subpart and 43 CFR part 4, subpart E.
§ 290.3
What is the time limit for filing an appeal?
You must file your appeal within 60 days after you receive BSEE's final decision or order. The 60-day time period applies rather than the time period provided in 43 CFR 4.411(a). A decision or order is received on the date you sign a receipt confirming delivery or, if there is no receipt, the date otherwise documented.
§ 290.4
How do I file an appeal?
For your appeal to be filed, BSEE must receive all of the following within 60 days after you receive the decision or order:
(a) A written Notice of Appeal together with a copy of the decision or order you are appealing in the office of the BSEE officer that issued the decision or order. You cannot extend the 60-day period for that office to receive your Notice of Appeal;
(b) A nonrefundable processing fee of $150 paid with the Notice of Appeal; and
(1) You must pay electronically through the Fees for Services page on the BSEE Web site at
http://www.bsee.gov,
and you must include a copy of the
Pay.gov
confirmation receipt page with your Notice of Appeal.
(2) You cannot extend the 60-day period for payment of the processing fee.
(c) If you are appealing a civil penalty assessment, either notification of payment of the penalty or documentation demonstrating satisfaction of the requirements in 30 CFR 250.1409(b). You cannot extend the 60-day period for satisfying this requirement, except as specifically provided in 30 CFR 250.1409(d).
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36154, June 6, 2016; 89 FR 89926, Nov. 14, 2024]
§ 290.5
Can I obtain an extension for filing my Notice of Appeal?
You cannot obtain an extension of time to file the Notice of Appeal. See 43 CFR 4.411(c).
§ 290.6
Are informal resolutions permitted?
(a) You may seek informal resolution with the issuing officer's next level supervisor during the 60-day period established in § 290.3.
(b) Nothing in this subpart precludes resolution by settlement of any appeal or matter pending in the administrative process after the 60-day period established in § 290.3.
§ 290.7
Do I have to comply with the decision or order while my appeal is pending?
(a) The decision or order is effective during the 60-day period for filing an appeal under § 290.3 unless:
(1) BSEE notifies you that the decision or order, or some portion of it, is suspended during this period because there is no likelihood of immediate and irreparable harm to human life, the environment, any mineral deposit, or property; or
(2) You post a surety bond under 30 CFR 250.1409 pending the appeal challenging an order to pay a civil penalty.
(b) This section applies rather than 43 CFR 4.21(a) for appeals of BSEE orders.
(c) After you file your appeal, IBLA may grant a stay of a decision or order under 43 CFR 4.21(b); however, a decision or order remains in effect until IBLA grants your request for a stay of the decision or order under appeal.
§ 290.8
How do I exhaust my administrative remedies?
(a) If you receive a decision or order issued under chapter II, subchapter B, you must appeal that decision or order to IBLA under 43 CFR part 4, subpart E to exhaust administrative remedies.
(b) This section does not apply if the Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management or the IBLA makes a decision or order immediately effective notwithstanding an appeal.
Subpart B [Reserved]
Pt. 291

# PART 291—OPEN AND NONDISCRIMINATORY ACCESS TO OIL AND GAS PIPELINES UNDER THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
Sec.
291.1
What is BSEE's authority to collect information?
291.100
What is the purpose of this part?
291.101
What definitions apply to this part?
291.102
May I call the BSEE Hotline to informally resolve an allegation that open and nondiscriminatory access was denied?
291.103
May I use alternative dispute resolution (ADR) to informally resolve an allegation that and nondiscriminatory access was denied?
291.104
Who may file a complaint or a third-party brief?
291.105
What must a complaint contain?
291.106
How do I file a complaint?
291.107
How do I answer a complaint?
291.108
How do I pay the processing fee?
291.109
Can I ask for a fee waiver or a reduced processing fee?
291.110
Who may BSEE require to produce information?
291.111
How does BSEE treat the confidential information I provide?
291.112
What process will BSEE follow in rendering a decision on whether a grantee or transporter has provided open and nondiscriminatory access?
291.113
What actions may BSEE take to remedy denial of open and nondiscriminatory access?
291.114
How do I appeal to the IBLA?
291.115
How do I exhaust administrative remedies?

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 9701, 43 U.S.C. 1334.

# Source:
76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 291.1
What is BSEE's authority to collect information?
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection requirements in this part under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.,
and assigned OMB Control Number 1014-0012.
(b) An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
(c) We use the information collected to determine whether or not the shipper has been denied open and nondiscriminatory access to Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) pipelines as sections of 5(e) and (f) of the OCS Lands Act (OCSLA) require.
(d) Respondents are companies that ship or transport oil and gas production across the OCS. Responses are required to obtain or retain benefits. We will protect information considered proprietary under applicable law.
(e) Send comments regarding any aspect of the collection of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36154, June 6, 2016]
§ 291.100
What is the purpose of this part?
This part:
(a) Explains the procedures for filing a complaint with the Director, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) alleging that a grantee or transporter has denied a shipper of production from the OCS open and nondiscriminatory access to a pipeline;
(b) Explains the procedures BSEE will employ to determine whether violations of the requirements of the OCSLA have occurred, and to remedy any violations; and
(c) Provides for alternative informal means of resolving pipeline access disputes through either Hotline-assisted procedures or alternative dispute resolution (ADR).
§ 291.101
What definitions apply to this part?
As used in this part:
Accessory
means a platform, a major subsea manifold, or similar subsea structure attached to a right-of-way (ROW) pipeline to support pump stations, compressors, manifolds,
etc.
The site used for an accessory is part of the pipeline ROW grant.
Appurtenance
means equipment, device, apparatus, or other object attached to a horizontal component or riser. Examples include anodes, valves, flanges, fittings, umbilicals, subsea manifolds, templates, pipeline end modules (PLEMs), pipeline end terminals (PLETs), anode sleds, other sleds, and jumpers (other than jumpers connecting subsea wells to manifolds).
FERC pipeline
means any pipeline within the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) under the Natural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. 717-717z, or the Interstate Commerce Act, 42 U.S.C. 7172(a) and (b).
Grantee
means any person to whom BSEE has issued an oil or gas pipeline permit, license, easement, right-of-way, or other grant of authority for transportation on or across the OCS under 30 CFR part 250, subpart J, or 43 U.S.C. 1337(p), and any person who has an assignment of a permit, license, easement, right-of-way or other grant of authority, or who has an assignment of any rights subject to any of those grants of authority under 30 CFR part 250, subpart J or 43 U.S.C. 1337(p).
IBLA
means the Interior Board of Land Appeals.
OCSLA pipeline
means any oil or gas pipeline for which BSEE has issued a permit, license, easement, right-of-way, or other grant of authority.
Outer Continental Shelf
means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301) and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Party
means any person who files a complaint, any person who files an answer, and BSEE.
Person
means an individual, corporation, government entity, partnership, association (including a trust or limited liability company), consortium, or joint venture (when established as a separate entity).
Pipeline
is the piping, risers, accessories and appurtenances installed for transportation of oil and gas.
Serve
means personally delivering a document to a person, or sending a document by U.S. mail or private delivery services that provide proof of delivery (such as return receipt requested) to a person.
Shipper
means a person who contracts or wants to contract with a grantee or transporter to transport oil or gas through the grantee's or transporter's pipeline.
Transportation
means, for purposes of this part only, the movement of oil or gas through an OCSLA pipeline.
Transporter
means, for purposes of this part only, any person who owns or operates an OCSLA oil or gas pipeline.
§ 291.102
May I call the BSEE Hotline to informally resolve an allegation that open and nondiscriminatory access was denied?
Before filing a complaint under § 291.106, you may attempt to informally resolve an allegation concerning open and nondiscriminatory access by calling the toll-free BSEE Pipeline Open Access Hotline at 1-888-232-1713.
(a) BSEE Hotline staff will informally seek information needed to resolve the dispute. BSEE Hotline staff
will attempt to resolve disputes without litigation or other formal proceedings. The Hotline staff will not attempt to resolve matters that are before BSEE or FERC in docketed proceedings.
(b) BSEE Hotline staff may provide information to you and give informal oral advice. The advice given is not binding on BSEE, the Department of the Interior (DOI), or any other person.
(c) To the extent permitted by law, the BSEE Hotline staff will treat all information it obtains as non-public and confidential.
(d) You may call the BSEE Hotline anonymously.
(e) If you contact the BSEE Hotline, you may file a complaint under this part if discussions assisted by BSEE Hotline staff are unsuccessful at resolving the matter.
(f) You may terminate use of the BSEE Hotline procedure at any time.
§ 291.103
May I use alternative dispute resolution (ADR) to informally resolve an allegation that open and nondiscriminatory access was denied?
You may ask to use ADR either before or after you file a complaint. To make a request, call the BSEE at 1-888-232-1713 or write to us at the following address: Director, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Attention: Office of Policy and Analysis, 1849 C Street, NW., Mail Stop 5438, Washington, DC 20240-0001.
(a) You may request that ADR be administered by:
(1) A contracted ADR provider agreed to by all parties;
(2) The Department's Office of Collaborative Action and Dispute Resolution (CADR); or
(3) BSEE staff trained in ADR and certified by the CADR.
(b) Each party must pay its respective share of all costs and fees associated with any contracted or Departmental ADR provider. For purposes of this section, BSEE is not a party in an ADR proceeding.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36154, June 6, 2016]
§ 291.104
Who may file a complaint or a third-party brief?
(a) You may file a complaint under this subpart if you are a shipper and you believe that you have been denied open and nondiscriminatory access to an OCSLA pipeline that is not a FERC pipeline.
(b) Any person that believes its interests may be affected by precedents established by adjudication of complaints under this rule may submit a brief to BSEE. The brief must be served following the procedure set out in § 291.107. After considering the brief, it is within BSEE's discretion as to whether BSEE may:
(1) Address the brief in its decision;
(2) Not address the brief in its decision; or
(3) Include the submitter of the brief in the proceeding as a party.
§ 291.105
What must a complaint contain?
For purposes of this subpart, a complaint means a comprehensive written brief stating the legal and factual basis for the allegation that a shipper was denied open and nondiscriminatory access, together with supporting material. A complaint must:
(a) Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate 43 U.S.C. 1334(e) or (f)(1)(A);
(b) Explain how the action or inaction violates 43 U.S.C. 1334(e) or (f)(1)(A);
(c) Explain how the action or inaction affects your interests, including practical, operational, or other non-financial impacts;
(d) Estimate any financial impact or burden;
(e) State the specific relief or remedy requested; and
(f) Include all documents that support the facts in your complaint including, but not limited to, contracts and any affidavits that may be necessary to support particular factual allegations.
§ 291.106
How do I file a complaint?
To file a complaint under this part, you must:
(a) File your complaint with the Director, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement at the following
address: Director, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Attention: Office of Policy and Analysis, 1849 C Street, NW., Mail Stop 5438, Washington, DC 20240-0001; and
(b) Include a nonrefundable processing fee of $7,500 under § 291.108(a) or a request for reduction or waiver of the fee under § 291.109(a); and
(c) Serve your complaint on all persons named in the complaint. If you make a claim under § 291.111 for confidentiality, serve the redacted copy and proposed form of a protective agreement on all persons named in the complaint.
(d) Complaints shall not be filed later than 2 years from the time of the alleged access denial. If the complaint is filed later than 2 years from the time of the alleged access denial, the BSEE Director will not consider the complaint and the case will be closed.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36154, June 6, 2016]
§ 291.107
How do I answer a complaint?
(a) If you have been served a complaint under § 291.106, you must file an answer within 60 days of receiving the complaint. If you miss this deadline, BSEE may disregard your answer. We consider your answer to be filed when the BSEE Director receives it at the following address: Director, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Attention: Office of Policy and Analysis, 1849 C Street, NW., Mail Stop 5438, Washington, DC 20240-0001.
(b) For purposes of this paragraph, an answer means a comprehensive written brief stating the legal and factual basis refuting the allegations in the complaint, together with supporting material. You must:
(1) Attach to your answer a copy of the complaint or reference the assigned BSEE docket number (you may obtain the docket number by calling the Office of Policy and Analysis at (202) 208-1901);
(2) Explain in your answer why the action or inaction alleged in the complaint does not violate 43 U.S.C. 1334(e) or (f)(1)(A);
(3) Include with your answer all documents in your possession or that you can otherwise obtain that support the facts in your answer including, but not limited to, contracts and any affidavits that may be necessary to support particular factual allegations; and
(4) Provide a copy of your answer to all parties named in the complaint including the complainant. If you make a claim under § 291.111 for confidentiality, serve the redacted copy and proposed form of a protective agreement to all parties named in the complaint, including the complainant.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36154, June 6, 2016]
§ 291.108
How do I pay the processing fee?
(a) You must pay the processing fee electronically through the Fees for Services page on the BSEE Web site at
http://www.bsee.gov,
and you must include a copy of the
Pay.gov
confirmation receipt page with your complaint.
(b) You must include with the payment:
(1) Your taxpayer identification number;
(2) Your payor identification number, if applicable; and
(3) The complaint caption, or any other applicable identification of the complaint you are filing.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36154, June 6, 2016]
§ 291.109
Can I ask for a fee waiver or a reduced processing fee?
(a) BSEE may grant a fee waiver or fee reduction in extraordinary circumstances. You may request a waiver or reduction of your fee by:
(1) Sending a written request to the BSEE Office of Policy and Analysis when you file your complaint; and
(2) Demonstrating in your request that you are unable to pay the fee or that payment of the full fee would impose an undue hardship upon you.
(b) The BSEE Office of Policy and Analysis will send you a written decision granting or denying your request for a fee waiver or a fee reduction.
(1) If we grant your request for a fee reduction, you must pay the reduced processing fee within 30 days of the date you receive our decision.
(2) If we deny your request, you must pay the entire processing fee within 30
days of the date you receive the decision.
(3) BSEE's decision granting or denying a fee waiver or reduction is final for the Department.
[76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36154, June 6, 2016]
§ 291.110
Who may BSEE require to produce information?
(a) BSEE may require any lessee, operator of a lease or unit, shipper, grantee, or transporter to provide information that BSEE believes is necessary to make a decision on whether open access or nondiscriminatory access was denied.
(b) If you are a party and fail to provide information BSEE requires under paragraph (a) of this section, BSEE may:
(1) Assess civil penalties under 30 CFR part 250, subpart N;
(2) Dismiss your complaint or consider your answer incomplete; or
(3) Presume the required information is adverse to you on the factual issues to which the information is relevant.
(c) If you are not a party to a complaint and fail to provide information BSEE requires under paragraph (a) of this section, BSEE may assess civil penalties under 30 CFR part 250, subpart N.
§ 291.111
How does BSEE treat the confidential information I provide?
(a) Any person who provides documents under this part in response to a request by BSEE to inform a decision on whether open access or nondiscriminatory access was denied may claim that some or all of the information contained in a particular document is confidential. If you claim confidential treatment, then when you provide the document to BSEE you must:
(1) Provide a complete unredacted copy of the document and indicate on that copy that you are making a request for confidential treatment for some or all of the information in the document.
(2) Provide a statement specifying the specific statutory justification for nondisclosure of the information for which you claim confidential treatment. General claims of confidentiality are not sufficient. You must furnish sufficient information for BSEE to make an informed decision on the request for confidential treatment.
(3) Provide a second copy of the document from which you have redacted the information for which you wish to claim confidential treatment. If you do not submit a second copy of the document with the confidential information redacted, BSEE may assume that there is no objection to public disclosure of the document in its entirety.
(b) In making data and information you submit available to the public, BSEE will not disclose documents exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and will follow the procedures set forth in the implementing regulations at 43 CFR part 2 to give submitters an opportunity to object to disclosure.
(c) BSEE retains the right to make the determination with regard to any claim of confidentiality. BSEE will notify you of its decision to deny a claim, in whole or in part, and, to the extent permitted by law, will give you an opportunity to respond at least 10 days before its public disclosure.
§ 291.112
What process will BSEE follow in rendering a decision on whether a grantee or transporter has provided open and nondiscriminatory access?
BSEE will begin processing a complaint upon receipt of a processing fee or granting a waiver of the fee. The BSEE Director will review the complaint, answer, and other information, and will serve all parties with a written decision that:
(a) Makes findings of fact and conclusions of law; and
(b) Renders a decision determining whether the complainant has been denied open and nondiscriminatory access.
§ 291.113
What actions may BSEE take to remedy denial of open and nondiscriminatory access?
If the BSEE Director's decision under § 291.112 determines that the grantee or transporter has not provided open access or nondiscriminatory access, then the decision will describe the actions BSEE will take to require the grantee or transporter to remedy the denial of
open access or nondiscriminatory access. The remedies BSEE would require must be consistent with BSEE's statutory authority, regulations, and any limits thereon due to Congressional delegations to other agencies. Actions BSEE may take include, but are not limited to:
(a) Ordering grantees and transporters to provide open and nondiscriminatory access to the complainant;
(b) Assessing civil penalties of up to $10,000 per day under 30 CFR part 250, subpart N, for failure to comply with a BSEE order to provide open access or nondiscriminatory access. Penalties will begin to accrue 60 days after the grantee or transporter receives the order to provide open and nondiscriminatory access if it has not provided such access by that time. However, if BSEE determines that requiring the construction of facilities would be an appropriate remedy under the OCSLA, penalties will begin to accrue 10 days after conclusion of diligent construction of needed facilities or 60 days after the grantee or transporter receives the order to provide open and nondiscriminatory access, whichever is later, if it has not provided such access by that time;
(c) Requesting the Attorney General to institute a civil action in the appropriate United States District Court under 43 U.S.C. 1350(a) for a temporary restraining order, injunction, or other appropriate remedy to enforce the open and nondiscriminatory access requirements of 43 U.S.C. 1334(e) and (f)(1)(A); or
(d) Initiating a proceeding to forfeit the right-of-way grant under 43 U.S.C. 1334(e).
§ 291.114
How do I appeal to the IBLA?
Any party, except as provided in § 291.115(b), adversely affected by a decision of the BSEE Director under this part may appeal to the Interior Board of Land Appeals (IBLA) under the procedures in 43 CFR part 4, subpart E.
§ 291.115
How do I exhaust administrative remedies?
(a) If the BSEE Director issues a decision under this part but does not expressly make the decision effective upon issuance, you must appeal the decision to the IBLA under 43 CFR part 4 to exhaust administrative remedies. Such decision will not be effective during the time in which a person adversely affected by the BSEE Director's decision may file a notice of appeal with the IBLA, and the timely filing of a notice of appeal will suspend the effect of the decision pending the decision on appeal.
(b) This section does not apply if a decision was made effective by:
(1) The BSEE Director; or
(2) The Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management.
PARTS 292-299 [RESERVED]
30 CFR Ch. IV (7-1-25 Edition)
Geological Survey, Interior

# CHAPTER IV—GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
Part
Page
400
[Reserved]
401
State Water Research Institute Program
371
402
Water-Resources Research Program and the Water-Resources Technology Development Program
376
403-499
[Reserved]
PART 400 [RESERVED]
Pt. 401

# PART 401—STATE WATER RESEARCH INSTITUTE PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
401.1
Purpose.
401.2
Delegation of authority.
401.3
Definitions.
401.4
Information collection.
401.5
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Designation of Institutes; Institute Programs
401.6
Designation of institutes.
401.7
Programs of institutes.
401.8-401.10
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Application and Management Procedures
401.11
Applications for grants.
401.12
Program management.
401.13-401.18
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Reporting
401.19
Reporting procedures.
401.20-401.25
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Evaluation
401.26
Evaluation of institutes.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 10303.

# Source:
50 FR 23114, May 31, 1985, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 401.1
Purpose.
The regulations in this part are issued pursuant to title I of the Water Research Act of 1984 (Pub. L. 98-242, 98 Stat. 97) which authorizes appropriations to, and confers authority upon, the Secretary of the Interior to promote a national program of water-resources research.
§ 401.2
Delegation of authority.
The State Water Research Institute Program, as authorized by section 104 of the Act, has been established as a component of the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). Secretary of the Interior has delegated to the Director of the USGS authority to take the actions and make the determinations that, under the Act, are the responsibility of the Secretary.
§ 401.3
Definitions.
Act
means the Water Resources Research Act of 1984 (Pub. L. 98-242, 98 Stat. 97).
Fiscal year
means a 12-month period ending on September 30.
Director
means the Director of the USGS or a designee.
Grant
means the funds made available to an institute in a particular fiscal year pursuant to section 104 of the Act and the regulations in this chapter.
Grantee
means the college or university at which an institute is established.
Granting agency
means the USGS.
Institute
means a water resources research institute, center, or equivalent agency established in accordance with Title I of the Act.
Region
means any grouping of two or more institutes mutually chosen by themselves to reflect a commonality of water-resources problems.
Scientists
means individuals engaged in any professional discipline, including the life, physical or social sciences, and engineers.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or a designee.
State
means each of the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the District of Columbia, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Mariana Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia.
[50 FR 23114, May 31, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 27204, May 7, 1993]
§ 401.4
Information collection.
(a) The information collection requirements contained in sections 401.11 and 401.19 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1028-0044. The information will be used to support water related research and provide performance reports on accomplishments achieved under Pub. L. 98-242, 98 Stat. 97 (42 U.S.C. 10303). This information allows the agency to determine compliance with the objectives and criteria of
the grant programs. Response is mandatory in accordance with 30 CFR 401.11 and 401.19.
(b) Public reporting burden for the collection of information is estimated to average 84 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate, or any other suggestions for reducing the burden, to Paperwork Management Officer, U.S. Geological Survey, Paperwork Management Section MS 208, Reston, Virginia 22092 and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (1028-0044), Washington, DC 20503.
[58 FR 27204, May 7, 1993]
§ 401.5
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Designation of Institutes; Institute Programs
§ 401.6
Designation of institutes.
(a) As a condition of recognition as an established institute under the provisions of this chapter, each institute shall provide to the Director written evidence that it conforms to the requirements of subsection 104(a) of the Act, in that:
(1) The institute is established at the college or university in the State that was established in accordance with the Act of July 21, 1862 (12 Stat. 503; 7 U.S.C. 301ff),
i.e.,
a “land-grant” institution, or;
(2) If established at some other institution, the institute is at a college or university that has been designated by act of the legislature for the purposes of the Act, or;
(3) If there is more than one “land-grant” institution in the State, and no designation has been made according to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the institute has been established at the one such institution designated by the Governor of the State to participate in the program, or;
(4) The institute has been designated as an interstate or regional institute by two or more cooperating States as provided in the Act.
(b) The certification of designation made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall originate following the issuance of these regulations, be signed by the highest ranking officer of the college or university at which the institute is established and be submitted to the Director within 90 days of the effective date of these regulations. It shall be accompanied either by the evidence of establishment under the provisions of 30 CFR part 401 or by new evidence of establishment made pursuant to these regulations.
(c) Any institute not previously established under the provisions of the Water Resources Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-379, 78 Stat. 331) or the Water Research and Development Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-467, 92 Stat. 1305) shall also, in addition to the annual program application specified in § 401.11 of this chapter, submit to the Director the following information:
(1) Evidence of the appointment by the governing authority of the college or university of an officer to receive and account for all funds paid under the provisions of the Act and to make annual reports to the granting agency on work accomplished; and
(2) A management plan for meeting the requirements of the evaluation mandated by § 401.26.
[50 FR 23114, May 31, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 27204, May 7, 1993]
§ 401.7
Programs of institutes.
(a) Release of grant funds to participating institutes is conditioned on the ability of each receiving institute to plan, conduct, or otherwise arrange for:
(1) Competent research, investigations, and experiments of either a basic or practical nature, or both, in relation to water resources;
(2) Promotion of the dissemination and application of the results of these efforts; and
(3) Assistance in the training of scientists in relevant fields of endeavor to water resources through the research, investigations, and experiments.
(b) Such research, investigations, experiments and training may include:
(1) Aspects of the hydrologic cycle;
(2) Supply and demand;
(3) Demineralization of saline and other impaired waters;
(4) Conservation and best use of available supplies of water and methods of increasing such supplies;
(5) Water reuse;
(6) Depletion and degradation of ground-water supplies;
(7) Improvements in the productivity of water when used for agricultural, municipal, and commercial purposes;
(8) The economic, legal, engineering, social, recreational, biological, geographical, ecological, or other aspects of water problems;
(9) Scientific information dissemination activities, including identifying, assembling, and interpreting the results of scientific research on water resources problems, and ;
(10) Providing means for improved communication of research results, having due regard for the varying conditions and needs of the respective States and regions.
(c) An institute shall cooperate closely with other colleges and universities in the State that have demonstrated capabilities for research, information dissemination and graduate training in the development of its program. For purposes of financial management, reporting and other research program management and administration activities, the institutes shall be responsible for performance of the activities of other participating institutions.
(d) Each institute shall cooperate closely with other institutes and other research organizations in the region to increase the effectiveness of the institutes, to coordinate their activities, and to avoid undue duplication of effort.
§§ 401.8-401.10
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Application and Management Procedures
§ 401.11
Applications for grants.
(a) Subject to the availability of appropriated funds, but not to exceed a total of $10 million, an equal amount of dollars will be available to each qualified institute in each fiscal year to assist it in carrying out the purposes of the Act. If the full amount of the appropriated funds is not obligated by the close of the fiscal year for which they were appropriated, the remaining funds shall be made available in the succeeding fiscal year to support competitively selected research projects under the terms of section 104(g) of the Act. Selection and approval of such projects shall be based on criteria to be determined by the Director. Announcement of such criteria shall be made by notice in the
Federal Register.
The granting agency may retain an amount up to 15 percent of the total appropriation for administrative costs.
(b) The granting agency will annually make available to qualified institutes instructions for the submittal of applications for grants. The instructions will include information pertinent only to a single fiscal year, such as the closing date for applications and the amount of funds initially available to each institute. They also will include notification of the provisions and assurances necessary to ensure that administration of the grant will be conducted in compliance with this chapter and other Federal laws and regulations applicable to grants to institutions of higher learning.
(c) In making its application for funds to which it is entitled under the Act, each institute shall use and follow the standard form for Federal assistance (SF 424, Federal Assistance). No preapplication is required. The institute shall include in section IV of Standard Form 424 evidence that its application was:
(1) Developed in close consultation and collaboration with senior personnel of the State's department of water resources or similar agencies, other leading water resources officials within the State, and interested members of the public;
(2) Coordinated with other institutes in the region for the purposes of avoiding duplication of effort and encouraging regional cooperation in research areas of water management, development, and conservation that have a regional or national character; and
(3) Reviewed for technical merit of its research components by qualified scientists.
(d) Each application shall further include:
(1) A financial plan relating expenditures to scheduled activity and rate of effort to be expended and indicating
the times at which there will be need for specified amounts of Federal funds; and
(2) A description of the institute's arrangements for development, administration, and technical oversight of the research program.
(e) Each annual program application is to include separately identifiable proposals for conduct of research to meet the needs of the State and region. Such proposals must set forth for each project:
(1) The nature, scope and objectives of the project to be undertaken;
(2) Its importance to the State, region, or Nation; its relation to other known research projects already completed or in progress; and the anticipated applicability of the research results;
(3) The period during which it will be pursued;
(4) The names and qualifications of the senior professional personnel who will direct and conduct the project;
(5) Its estimated costs, with a breakdown of the costs per year; and
(6) The extent of which it will provide opportunity for the training of scientists.
(f) Each program application shall contain a plan for disseminating information on the results of research and promoting their application. Plans which require the use of grant funds shall contain:
(1) Definition of the topics for dissemination;
(2) Identification of the target audiences for dissemination;
(3) Strategies for accomplishing the dissemination;
(4) Duties and qualifications of the personnel to be involved;
(5) Estimated costs of each identifiable element of the plan; and
(6) Identification of cooperating entities.
(g) The application shall provide assurance that non-Federal dollars will be available to share the costs of the proposed program. The Federal funds are to be matched on a basis of no less than two non-Federal dollars for each Federal dollar, unless this matching requirement has been waived.
(h) The granting agency will evaluate the proposals for consistency with the provisions of its instructions and this chapter and within no more than 90 days request any revisions and additions necessary for such consistency.
[50 FR 23114, May 31, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 27204, May 7, 1993]
§ 401.12
Program management.
(a) Upon approval of each fiscal year's proposed program, the granting agency will transmit to the grantee an award which will incorporate the application and assurances.
(b) The grant is effective and constitutes an obligation of Federal funds in the amount and for the purpose stated in the award document at the time of the Director's signature.
(c)(1) Acceptance of the award document certifies the grantee's assurance that the grant will be administered in compliance with OMB regulations, policies, guidelines, and requirements as described in:
(i) Circular No. A-21, revised, Cost Principles of Educational Institutions;
(ii) Memorandum No. M-92-01, Coordination of Water Resources Information;
(iii) Circular No. A-88, revised, Indirect Cost Rates, Audit and Audit Follow-up at Educational Institutions;
(iv) Circular No. A-110, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and other Nonprofit Organizations; and
(v) Circular No. A-124, Patents—Small Business Firms and Nonprofit Organizations.
(2) Copies of the documents listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be available from the granting agency.
[50 FR 23114, May 31, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 27204, May 7, 1993]
§§ 401.13-401.18
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Reporting
§ 401.19
Reporting procedures.
(a) The institutes are encouraged to publish, as technical reports or in the professional literature, the findings, results, and conclusions relating to separately identifiable research projects undertaken pursuant to the Act.
(b) Each institute shall submit to the granting agency, by a date to be specified in the award document, an annual program report which provides:
(1) A statement concerning the relationship of the institute's program to the water problems and issues of the State;
(2) A synopsis of the objectives, methods, and conclusions of each project completed within the period covered;
(3) A progress report on each project continuing into the subsequent fiscal year;
(4) Citations of all reports, papers, publications or other communicable products resulting from each project completed or in progress;
(5) A description of all activities undertaken for the purpose of promoting the application of research results;
(6) A description of cooperative arrangements with other educational institutions, State agencies, and others.
(c) One manuscript of reproducible quality and two copies of the annual program report shall be furnished to the granting agency. One copy of a complete report on the objectives, methods, and conclusions of each research project shall be maintained by the institute and open to inspection.
(d) Appropriate acknowledgment shall be given by institutes to the granting agency's participation in financing activities carried out under provisions of the Act. Such acknowledgment shall be included in all reports, publications, news releases, and other information media developed by institutes and others to publicize, describe, or report upon accomplishments and activities of the program.
(e) An original and two copies of the final “Financial Status Report,” SF 269, shall be furnished to the granting agency within 90 days of completion of the grant period.
§§ 401.20-401.25
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Evaluation
§ 401.26
Evaluation of institutes.
(a) Within 2 years of the date of its certification according to the provisions of § 401.6, each institute will be evaluated for the purpose of determining whether the national interest warrants its continued support under the provisions of the Act. That determination shall be based on:
(1) The quality and relevance of its water resources research as funded under the Act;
(2) Its effectiveness as an institution for planning, conducting, or arranging for research;
(3) Its demonstrated performance in making research results available to users in the State and elsewhere; and
(4) Its demonstrated record in providing for the training of scientists through student involvement in its research program.
(b) An evaluation team, selected by the granting agency on the basis of the members' knowledge of water research and administration, shall evaluate each institute, and may with the concurrence of the granting agency, visit such institutes as it considers necessary. The team is to include at least one individual from each of the following categories:
(1) Employees of the Department of the Interior;
(2) University faculty or other professionals with relevant experience in the conduct of water resources research;
(3) Former directors of water research institutes; and
(4) University faculty or other professionals with relevant experience in information transfer.
(c) The granting agency may request recommendations for team selections from the National Research Council/National Academy of Sciences and from other organizations whose members include the types of individuals cited in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The granting agency shall, as an administrative cost, provide the funds for travel and per diem expense of the team members, within the maximum limits allowable under Federal travel regulations (41 CFR subtitle F).
(e) The granting agency has the right to select dates for evaluation visits, and notice of the team's visit shall be provided to the institute being evaluated at least 60 days in advance.
(f) It shall be the responsibility of each institute to provide such documentation of its activities and accomplishments as the granting agency and
evaluation team may reasonably request. The request for this documentation shall be made at least 60 days prior to the due date of its receipt.
(g) The team shall, within 90 days after completion of its evaluation, submit a written report of its findings to the granting agency for transmittal to the institute. If an institute is found to have deficiencies in meeting the objectives of the Act, it shall be allowed 1 year to correct them and to report such action to the granting agency. The decision as to the institute's eligibility to receive further funding will rest with the granting agency.
(h) After the initial evaluation, each institute shall be reevaluated at least every 5 years.
[58 FR 27204, May 7, 1993]
Pt. 402

# PART 402—WATER-RESOURCES RESEARCH PROGRAM AND THE WATER-RESOURCES TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
402.1
Purpose.
402.2
Delegation of authority.
402.3
Definitions.
402.4
Information collection.
402.5
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Description of Water-Resources Programs
402.6
Water-Resources Research Program.
402.7
Water-Resources Technology Development Program.
402.8-402.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Application, Evaluation, and Management Procedures
402.10
Research-project applications.
402.11
Technology-development project applications.
402.12
Evaluation of applications for grants and contracts.
402.13
Program management.
402.14
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Reporting
402.15
Reporting procedures.

# Authority:
Secs. 105 and 106, Pub. L. 98-242, 98 Stat. 97 (42 U.S.C. 10304 and 10305).

# Source:
51 FR 20963, June 10, 1986, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 402.1
Purpose.
The regulations in this part are issued pursuant to title I of the Water Resources Research Act of 1984 (Pub. L. 98-242, 98 Stat. 97), which authorizes appropriations to, and confers authority upon, the Secretary of the Interior to promote national programs of water-resources research and technology development.
§ 402.2
Delegation of authority.
The Water-Resources Research Program and the Water-Resources Technology Development Program, as authorized by sections 105 and 106 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 10304 and 10305), have been established as components of the USGS. The Secretary of the Interior has delegated to the Director of the USGS authority to take actions and make the determinations that, under the Act, are the responsibility of the Secretary.
§ 402.3
Definitions.
(a)
Grant
is used in these rules as a generic term for a Federal assistance award, including project grants and cooperative agreements.
(b)
Act
means the Water Resources Research Act of 1984 (Pub. L. 98-242, 98 Stat. 97).
(c)
Educational institution
means any educational institution—privately and/or publicly owned.
(d)
Dollar-for-dollar matching grant
means for each Federal dollar provided to support the projects, a non-Federal dollar also must be provided to the project.
§ 402.4
Information collection.
The information-collection requirements contained in sections 402.10, 402.11, and 402.15 have been approved by the OMB under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1028-0046. The application proposals being collected will contain technical information that will be used by the USGS as a basis for selection and award of grants. The progress reports being collected will contain a description of all work accomplished and results achieved on each funded project and will enable the USGS to carry out its
oversight responsibilities and provide dissemination of technical information.
§ 402.5
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Description of Water-Resources Programs
§ 402.6
Water-Resources Research Program.
(a) Subject to the availability of appropriated funds, the Water-Resources Research Program will provide support, in the form of a dollar-for-dollar matching grant, to educational institutions, private foundations, private firms, individuals, and agencies of local or State governments for research concerning any aspect of a water-resource related problem deemed to be in the national interest. Federal agencies are excluded from receiving matching grants. Grants may be awarded on other than a dollar-for-dollar matching basis in cases where the USGS determines that research on a high-priority subject is of a basic nature that otherwise would not be undertaken.
(b) The types of research to be undertaken under this program are listed below, without indication of priority:
(1) Aspects of the hydrologic cycle;
(2) Supply and demand for water;
(3) Demineralization of saline and other impaired waters;
(4) Conservation and best use of available supplies of water and methods of increasing such supplies;
(5) Water reuse;
(6) Depletion and degradation of groundwater supplies;
(7) Improvements in the productivity of water when used for agricultural, municipal, and commercial purposes; and
(8) The economic, legal, engineering, social, recreational, biological, geographic, ecological, and other aspects of water problems.
(9) Scientific information-dissemination activities, including identifying, assembling, and interpreting the results of scientific and engineering research on water-resources problems.
(10) Providing means for improved communications of research results, having due regard for the varying conditions and needs for the respective States and regions.
§ 402.7
Water-Resources Technology Development Program.
(a) Subject to the availability of appropriated funds, the Water-Resources Technology Development Program will provide funds in the form of grants or contracts to educational institutions, private firms, private foundations, individuals, and agencies of local or State governments for technology development concerning any aspect of water-related technology deemed to be of State, regional, and national importance, including technology associated with improvement of waters of impaired quality and the operation of test facilities. Federal agencies are excluded from receiving grants or contracts. The types of technology-development to be undertaken under this program shall include paragraphs 1 through 10 of § 402.6(b).
(b) The USGS may establish any condition for the matching of funds by the recipient of any grant or cost-sharing under a contract under the technology-development program which the USGS considers to be in the best interest of the Nation.
§§ 402.8-402.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Application, Evaluation, and Management Procedures
§ 402.10
Research-project applications.
(a) Only those applications for grants that are in response to and meet the guidelines of specific USGS announcements will be considered for funding appropriated for this program.
(b) The USGS program announcements will identify priorities, matching requirements, particular areas of interest, criteria for evaluation, OMB regulations as appropriate, assurances, closing date, and proposal submittal instructions. Program announcements may also include criteria for high-priority subjects of a basic nature that may be funded on other than a dollar-for-dollar basis. Program announcements will be distributed to names on the current USGS mailing list for the
Water-Resources Research Program announcements, including new requests received in response to published notices of upcoming program announcements.
(c) Notification of the availability of the program announcement will be published in the Commerce Business Daily and/or
Federal Register.
(d) The application for funds must be signed by an individual or official authorized to commit the applicant and it must contain:
(1) A Standard Form 424 “Federal Assistance,” sections I and II completed by applicant, used as the cover sheet for each proposal.
(2) A project summary of no more than one typed, single-spaced page providing the following specific information:
(i) Identification of the water or water-related problems and the problem-solution approach;
(ii) Identification of the proposed scientific contribution of the problem solution;
(iii) Concise statement of the specific objectives of the project;
(iv) Identification of the approach to be used to accomplish the work; and
(v) Identification of potential users of the proposed work.
(3) Narrative information, as specified in the published program announcement, such as project title, project objectives, background information, research tasks, methodology to conduct the research task, the relevancy of the proposed project to water-resources problems, qualifications of the principal investigators and their organizations, and proposed budget with supporting information sufficient to allow evaluation of costs.
§ 402.11
Technology-development project applications.
(a) Grant awards will be used to support those portions of the program for which the principal purpose is other than as described in § 402.11(b). Program announcements and applications will be governed by the same procedures provided in § 402.10.
(b) If it is determined that the principal purpose of a planned award (or awards) is to acquire goods or services for the direct benefit or use of the Government, the action must be regarded as a procurement contract. A competitive solicitation prepared in accordance with applicable acquisition regulations will be issued to interested parties. Notification of the availability of any contract solicitation will be published in the Commerce Business Daily, unless waived in accordance with § 5.202 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). Contracts may be awarded without full and open competition only if justified in accordance with FAR subpart 6.3.
§ 402.12
Evaluation of applications for grants and contracts.
(a)
Grants.
(1) Each grant application will receive technical evaluations from Government and/or non-Government scientific or engineering personnel. Utilizing the criteria for evaluation identified in the applicable announcement, each reviewer will assign a technical score.
(2) Grant applications with low technical ratings will be screened out, and the remaining grant applications will be rank-ordered by review panels.
(3) USGS program officials will compile a single, consolidated rank-ordered list of the grant applications based on technical scoring, program needs and published priorities, and the available Federal funds.
(b)
Contracts.
Proposals for contract awards will be evaluated by a USGS panel. Contracts will be awarded according to procedures contained in the FAR, the Department of the Interior Acquisition Regulation, and in acquisition policy releases issued by the Department and by the USGS.
§ 402.13
Program management.
(a) After the conclusion of negotiations, the USGS will transmit a grant or contract-award document, as appropriate, setting forth the terms of the award.
(b)
Grants.
Recipients will be required to execute funded projects in accordance with OMB Circulars governing cost principles, administrative requirements, and audit, as applicable to their organization type. In addition, OMB Circular A-67, Coordination of Federal Activities in the Acquisition of Certain
Water Data, is applicable to awards under these programs.
(c)
Contracts.
Administrative requirements for performance of research contracts will be established in the contract clauses in conformance with applicable procurement regulations and other interior or USGS acquisition policy documents. OMB Circular A-67 will also apply to some contract awards under this program.
§ 402.14
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Reporting
§ 402.15
Reporting procedures.
(a) Grantees or contractors will be required to submit the following technical reports to the USGS address identified under the terms and conditions of each award.
(1)
Quarterly Technical Progress Report.
This report shall include a description of all work accomplished, results achieved, and any changes that affect the project's scope of work, time schedule, and personnel assignments.
(2)
Draft Technical Completion Report.
The draft report will be required for review prior to submission of the final technical completion report.
(3)
Final Technical Completion Report.
The final report and a camera-ready copy shall be submitted to the USGS within 90 days after the expiration date of the award and shall include a summary of all work accomplished, results achieved, conclusions, and recommendations. The camera-ready copy shall be prepared in a manner suitable for reproduction by a photographic process. Format will be specified in the terms and conditions of the award.
(4)
Final Report Abstract.
A complete Water-Resources Scientific Information Center Abstract Form 102 and National Technical Information Service Form 79 shall be submitted with the final report.
(b) Grantees or contractors will be required to submit financial, administrative, and closeout reports as identified under the terms of each award. Reporting requirements will conform to the procedures described in the Departmental Manual of the Department of the Interior at 505 DM 1-5.
(c) Contracts for technology-development projects may also require delivery of hardware items produced and/or specifications, drawings, test results, or other data describing the funded technology.
PARTS 403-499 [RESERVED]
30 CFR Ch. V (7-1-25 Edition)
Ocean Energy Management, Interior

# CHAPTER V—BUREAU OF OCEAN ENERGY MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

# SUBCHAPTER A—MINERALS REVENUE MANAGEMENT
Part
Page
500-519
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER B—OFFSHORE
550
Oil and gas and sulphur operations in the Outer Continental Shelf
383
551
Geological and geophysical (G
G) explorations of the Outer Continental Shelf
450
552
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Oil and Gas Information Program
464
553
Oil spill financial responsibility for offshore facilities
469
556
Leasing of sulphur or oil and gas and bonding requirements in the Outer Continental Shelf
484
560
Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas leasing
525
570
Nondiscrimination in the Outer Continental Shelf
533
580
Prospecting for minerals other than oil, gas, and sulphur on the Outer Continental Shelf
534
581
Leasing of minerals other than oil, gas, and sulphur in the Outer Continental Shelf
546
582
Operations in the Outer Continental Shelf for minerals other than oil, gas and sulphur
559
583
Negotiated noncompetitive agreements for the use of Outer Continental Shelf sand, gravel, and/or shell resources
577
585
Renewable energy on the Outer Continental Shelf
583
586
Alternate uses of existing facilities on the Outer Continental Shelf
650

# SUBCHAPTER C—APPEALS
590
Appeal procedures
663
591-599
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—MINERALS REVENUE MANAGEMENT
PARTS 500-519 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER B—OFFSHORE
Pt. 550

# PART 550—OIL AND GAS AND SULFUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF

# Subpart A—General

# Authority and Definition of Terms
Sec.
550.101
Authority and applicability.
550.102
What does this part do?
550.103
Where can I find more information about the requirements in this part?
550.104
How may I appeal a decision made under BOEM regulations?
550.105
Definitions.

# Performance Standards
550.115
How do I determine well producibility?
550.116
How do I determine producibility if my well is in the Gulf of America?
550.117
How does a determination of well producibility affect royalty status?
550.118
[Reserved]
550.119
Will BOEM approve subsurface gas storage?
550.120
What standards will BOEM use to regulate leases, rights-of-use and easement, and rights-of-way?
550.121
What must I do to protect health, safety, property, and the environment?
550.122
What effect does subsurface storage have on the lease term?
550.123
Will BOEM allow gas storage on unleased lands?

# Fees
550.125
Service fees.
550.126
Electronic payment instructions.

# Inspection of Operations
550.130
[Reserved]

# Disqualification
550.135
What will BOEM do if my operating performance is unacceptable?
550.136
How will BOEM determine if my operating performance is unacceptable?

# Special Types of Approvals
550.140
When will I receive an oral approval?
550.141
May I ever use alternate procedures or equipment?
550.142
How do I receive approval for departures?
550.143
How do I designate an operator?
550.144
How do I designate a new operator when a designation of operator terminates?
550.146
How do I designate an agent or a local agent?
550.147
Who is responsible for fulfilling leasehold obligations?

# Right-of-Use and Easement
550.160
When will BOEM grant me a right-of-use and easement, and what requirements must I meet?
550.161
What else must I submit with my application?
550.162
May I continue my right-of-use and easement after the termination of any lease on which it is situated?
550.163
If I have a State lease, will BOEM grant me a right-of-use and easement?
550.164
If I have a State lease, what conditions apply for a right-of-use and easement?
550.165
If I have a State lease, what fees do I have to pay for a right-of-use and easement?
550.166
If I have a State lease, what surety bond must I have for a right-of-use and easement?

# Primary Lease Requirements, Lease Term Extensions, and Lease Cancellations
550.181
When may the Secretary cancel my lease and when am I compensated for cancellation?
550.182
When may the Secretary cancel a lease at the exploration stage?
550.183
When may BOEM or the Secretary extend or cancel a lease at the development and production stage?
550.184
What is the amount of compensation for lease cancellation?
550.185
When is there no compensation for a lease cancellation?

# Information and Reporting Requirements
550.186
What reporting information and report forms must I submit?
550.187-550.193
[Reserved]
550.194
How must I protect archaeological resources?
550.195
[Reserved]
550.196
Reimbursements for reproduction and processing costs.
550.197
Data and information to be made available to the public or for limited inspection.

# References
550.198
[Reserved]
550.199
Paperwork Reduction Act statements—information collection.

# Subpart B—Plans and Information

# General Information
550.200
Definitions.
550.201
What plans and information must I submit before I conduct any activities on my lease or unit?
550.202
What criteria must the Exploration Plan (EP), Development and Production Plan (DPP), or Development Operations Coordination Document (DOCD) meet?
550.203
Where can wells be located under an EP, DPP, or DOCD?
550.204
When must I submit my IOP for proposed Arctic exploratory drilling operations and what must the IOP include?
550.205
[Reserved]
550.206
How do I submit the IOP, EP, DPP, or DOCD?

# Ancillary Activities
550.207
What ancillary activities may I conduct?
550.208
If I conduct ancillary activities, what notices must I provide?
550.209
What is the BOEM review process for the notice?
550.210
If I conduct ancillary activities, what reporting and data/information retention requirements must I satisfy?

# Contents of Exploration Plans (EP)
550.211
What must the EP include?
550.212
What information must accompany the EP?
550.213
What general information must accompany the EP?
550.214
What geological and geophysical (G
G) information must accompany the EP?
550.215
What hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S) information must accompany the EP?
550.216
What biological, physical, and socioeconomic information must accompany the EP?
550.217
What solid and liquid wastes and discharges information and cooling water intake information must accompany the EP?
550.218
What air emissions information must accompany the EP?
550.219
What oil and hazardous substance spills information must accompany the EP?
550.220
If I propose activities in the Alaska OCS Region, what planning information must accompany the EP?
550.221
What environmental monitoring information must accompany the EP?
550.222
What lease stipulations information must accompany the EP?
550.223
What mitigation measures information must accompany the EP?
550.224
What information on support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use must accompany the EP?
550.225
What information on the onshore support facilities you will use must accompany the EP?
550.226
What Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) information must accompany the EP?
550.227
What environmental impact analysis (EIA) information must accompany the EP?
550.228
What administrative information must accompany the EP?

# Review and Decision Process for the EP
550.231
After receiving the EP, what will BOEM do?
550.232
What actions will BOEM take after the EP is deemed submitted?
550.233
What decisions will BOEM make on the EP and within what timeframe?
550.234
How do I submit a modified EP or resubmit a disapproved EP, and when will BOEM make a decision?
550.235
If a State objects to the EP's coastal zone consistency certification, what can I do?

# Content of Development and Production Plans (DPP) and Development Operations Coordination Documents (DOCD)
550.241
What must the DPP or DOCD include?
550.242
What information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.243
What general information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.244
What geological and geophysical (G
G) information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.245
What hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S) information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.246
What mineral resource conservation information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.247
What biological, physical, and socioeconomic information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.248
What solid and liquid wastes and discharges information and cooling water intake information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.249
What air emissions information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.250
What oil and hazardous substance spills information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.251
If I propose activities in the Alaska OCS Region, what planning information must accompany the DPP?
550.252
What environmental monitoring information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.253
What lease stipulations information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.254
What mitigation measures information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.255
What decommissioning information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.256
What related facilities and operations information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.257
What information on the support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.258
What information on the onshore support facilities you will use must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.259
What sulphur operations information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.260
What Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.261
What environmental impact analysis (EIA) information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
550.262
What administrative information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?

# Review and Decision Process for the DPP or DOCD
550.266
After receiving the DPP or DOCD, what will BOEM do?
550.267
What actions will BOEM take after the DPP or DOCD is deemed submitted?
550.268
How does BOEM respond to recommendations?
550.269
How will BOEM evaluate the environmental impacts of the DPP or DOCD?
550.270
What decisions will BOEM make on the DPP or DOCD and within what timeframe?
550.271
For what reasons will BOEM disapprove the DPP or DOCD?
550.272
If a State objects to the DPP's or DOCD's coastal zone consistency certification, what can I do?
550.273
How do I submit a modified DPP or DOCD or resubmit a disapproved DPP or DOCD?

# Post-Approval Requirements for the EP, DPP, and DOCD
550.280
How must I conduct activities under the approved EP, DPP, or DOCD?
550.281
What must I do to conduct activities under the approved EP, DPP, or DOCD?
550.282
Do I have to conduct post-approval monitoring?
550.283
When must I revise or supplement the approved EP, DPP, or DOCD?
550.284
How will BOEM require revisions to the approved EP, DPP, or DOCD?
550.285
How do I submit revised and supplemental EPs, DPPs, and DOCDs?

# Conservation Information Documents (CID)
550.296
When and how must I submit a CID or a revision to a CID?
550.297
What information must a CID contain?
550.298
How long will BOEM take to evaluate and make a decision on the CID?
550.299
What operations require approval of the CID?

# Subpart C—Pollution Prevention and Control
550.300-550.301
[Reserved]
550.302
Definitions concerning air quality.
550.303
Facilities described in a new or revised Exploration Plan, Development and Production Plan, or Development Operations Coordination Document.
550.304
Existing facilities.

# Subpart D—Leasing Maps and Diagrams
550.400
Leasing maps and diagrams.
Subparts E-I [Reserved]

# Subpart J—Pipelines and Pipeline Rights of Way
550.1011
Bond requirements for pipeline right-of-way holders.

# Subpart K—Oil and Gas Production Requirements

# Well Tests and Surveys
550.1153
When must I conduct a static bottomhole pressure survey?

# Classifying Reservoirs
550.1154
How do I determine if my reservoir is sensitive?
550.1155
What information must I submit for sensitive reservoirs?

# Other Requirements
550.1165
What must I do for enhanced recovery operations?
550.1166
What additional reporting is required for developments in the Alaska OCS Region?
550.1167
What information must I submit with forms and for approvals?
Subparts L-M [Reserved]

# Subpart N—Outer Continental Shelf Civil Penalties

# Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Civil Penalties
550.1400
How does BOEM begin the civil penalty process?
550.1401
Index table.
550.1402
Definitions.
550.1403
What is the maximum civil penalty?
550.1404
Which violations will BOEM review for potential civil penalties?
550.1405
When is a case file developed?
550.1406
When will BOEM notify me and provide penalty information?
550.1407
How do I respond to the letter of notification?
550.1408
When will I be notified of the Reviewing Officer's decision?
550.1409
What are my appeal rights?

# Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act Civil Penalties Definitions
550.1450
What definitions apply to this subpart?

# Penalties After a Period To Correct
550.1451
What may BOEM do if I violate a statute, regulation, order, or lease term relating to a Federal oil and gas lease?
550.1452
What if I correct the violation?
550.1453
What if I do not correct the violation?
550.1454
How may I request a hearing on the record on a Notice of Noncompliance?
550.1455
Does my request for a hearing on the record affect the penalties?
550.1456
May I request a hearing on the record regarding the amount of a civil penalty if I did not request a hearing on the Notice of Noncompliance?

# Penalties Without a Period To Correct
550.1460
May I be subject to penalties without prior notice and an opportunity to correct?
550.1461
How will BOEM inform me of violations without a period to correct?
550.1462
How may I request a hearing on the record on a Notice of Noncompliance regarding violations without a period to correct?
550.1463
Does my request for a hearing on the record affect the penalties?
550.1464
May I request a hearing on the record regarding the amount of a civil penalty if I did not request a hearing on the Notice of Noncompliance?

# General Provisions
550.1470
How does BOEM decide what the amount of the penalty should be?
550.1471
Does the penalty affect whether I owe interest?
550.1472
How will the Office of Hearings and Appeals conduct the hearing on the record?
550.1473
How may I appeal the Administrative Law Judge's decision?
550.1474
May I seek judicial review of the decision of the Interior Board of Land Appeals?
550.1475
When must I pay the penalty?
550.1476
Can BOEM reduce my penalty once it is assessed?
550.1477
How may BOEM collect the penalty?

# Criminal Penalties
550.1480
May the United States criminally prosecute me for violations under Federal oil and gas leases?

# Bonding Requirements
550.1490
What standards must my BOEM-specified surety instrument meet?
550.1491
How will BOEM determine the amount of my bond or other surety instrument?

# Financial Solvency Requirements
550.1495
How do I demonstrate financial solvency?
550.1496
How will BOEM determine if I am financially solvent?
550.1497
When will BOEM monitor my financial solvency?
Subparts O-S [Reserved]

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 1751; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 43 U.S.C. 1334.

# Source:
76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 550 appear at 90 FR 24071, June 6, 2025.

# Subpart A—General

# Authority and Definition of Terms
§ 550.101
Authority and applicability.
The Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) authorized the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) to regulate oil, gas, and sulfur exploration, development, and production operations on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). Under the Secretary's authority, the BOEM Director requires that all operations:
(a) Be conducted according to the OCS Lands Act (OCSLA), the regulations in this part, BOEM orders, the
lease or right-of-way, and other applicable laws, regulations, and amendments; and
(b) Conform to sound conservation practice to preserve, protect, and develop mineral resources of the OCS to:
(1) Make resources available to meet the Nation's energy needs;
(2) Balance orderly energy resource development with protection of the human, marine, and coastal environments;
(3) Ensure the public receives a fair and equitable return on the resources of the OCS;
(4) Preserve and maintain free enterprise competition; and
(5) Minimize or eliminate conflicts between the exploration, development, and production of oil and natural gas and the recovery of other resources.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 31585, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 550.102
What does this part do?
(a) This part contains the regulations of the BOEM Offshore program that govern oil, gas, and sulfur exploration, development, and production operations on the OCS. When you conduct operations on the OCS, you must submit requests, applications, and notices, or provide supplemental information for BOEM approval.
(b) The following table of general references shows where to look for information about these processes.
Table—Where To Find Information for Conducting Operations
For information about
Refer to
(1) Applications for permit to drill
30 CFR 250, subpart D.
(2) Development and Production Plans (DPP)
30 CFR 550, subpart B.
(3) Downhole commingling
30 CFR 250, subpart K.
(4) Exploration Plans (EP)
30 CFR 550, subpart B.
(5) Flaring
30 CFR 250, subpart K.
(6) Gas measurement
30 CFR 250, subpart L.
(7) Off-lease geological and geophysical permits
30 CFR 551.
(8) Oil spill financial responsibility coverage
30 CFR 553.
(9) Oil and gas production safety systems
30 CFR 250, subpart H.
(10) Oil spill response plans
30 CFR 254.
(11) Oil and gas well-completion operations
30 CFR 250, subpart E.
(12) Oil and gas well-workover operations
30 CFR 250, subpart F.
(13) Decommissioning Activities
30 CFR 250, subpart Q.
(14) Platforms and structures
30 CFR 250, subpart I.
(15) Pipelines and Pipeline Rights-of-Way
30 CFR 250, subpart J and 30 CFR 550, subpart J.
(16) Sulfur operations
30 CFR 250, subpart P.
(17) Training
30 CFR 250, subpart O.
(18) Unitization
30 CFR 250, subpart M.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 31585, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 550.103
Where can I find more information about the requirements in this part?
BOEM may issue Notices to Lessees and Operators (NTLs) that clarify or provide more detail about certain regulatory requirements. NTLs may also outline what information you must provide, as required by regulation, in your various submissions to BOEM.
[89 FR 31586, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 550.104
How may I appeal a decision made under BOEM regulations?
To appeal orders or decisions issued under BOEM regulations in 30 CFR parts 550 to 582, follow the procedures in 30 CFR part 590.
§ 550.105
Definitions.
Terms used in this part will have the meanings given in the Act and as defined in this section:
Act
means the OCS Lands Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
)
Affected State
means with respect to any program, plan, lease sale, or other activity proposed, conducted, or approved under the provisions of the Act, any State:
(1) The laws of which are declared, under section 4(a)(2) of the Act, to be the law of the United States for the portion of the OCS on which such activity is, or is proposed to be, conducted;
(2) Which is, or is proposed to be, directly connected by transportation facilities to any artificial island or installation or other device permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed;
(3) Which is receiving, or according to the proposed activity, will receive oil for processing, refining, or transshipment that was extracted from the OCS and transported directly to such State by means of vessels or by a combination of means including vessels;
(4) Which is designated by the Secretary as a State in which there is a substantial probability of significant impact on or damage to the coastal, marine, or human environment, or a State in which there will be significant changes in the social, governmental, or economic infrastructure, resulting from the exploration, development, and production of oil and gas anywhere on the OCS; or
(5) In which the Secretary finds that because of such activity there is, or will be, a significant risk of serious damage, due to factors such as prevailing winds and currents to the marine or coastal environment in the event of any oil spill, blowout, or release of oil or gas from vessels, pipelines, or other transshipment facilities.
Analyzed geological information
means data collected under a permit or a lease that have been analyzed. Analysis may include, but is not limited to, identification of lithologic and fossil content, core analysis, laboratory analyses of physical and chemical properties, well logs or charts, results from formation fluid tests, and descriptions of hydrocarbon occurrences or hazardous conditions.
Ancillary activities
mean those activities on your lease or unit that you:
(1) Conduct to obtain data and information to ensure proper exploration or development of your lease or unit; and
(2) Can conduct without BOEM approval of an application or permit.
Archaeological interest
means capable of providing scientific or humanistic understanding of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques, such as controlled observation, contextual measurement, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation, and explanation.
Archaeological resource
means any material remains of human life or activities that are at least 50 years of age and that are of archaeological interest.
Arctic OCS conditions
means, for the purposes of this part, the conditions operators can reasonably expect during operations on the Arctic OCS. Such conditions, depending on the time of year, include, but are not limited to: extreme cold, freezing spray, snow, extended periods of low light, strong winds, dense fog, sea ice, strong currents, and dangerous sea states. Remote location, relative lack of infrastructure, and the existence of subsistence hunting and fishing areas are also characteristic of the Arctic region.
Assign
means to convey an ownership interest in an oil, gas, or sulfur lease, ROW grant or RUE grant. For the purposes of this part, “assign” is synonymous with “transfer” and the two terms are used interchangeably.
Attainment area
means, for any criteria air pollutant, an area which is shown by monitored data or which is calculated by air quality modeling (or other methods determined by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to be reliable) not to exceed any primary or secondary ambient air quality standards established by EPA.
Best available and safest technology (BAST)
means the best available and safest technologies that the Director determines to be economically feasible wherever failure of equipment would have a significant effect on safety, health, or the environment.
Best available control technology (BACT)
means an emission limitation based on the maximum degree of reduction for each criteria air pollutant and VOC subject to regulation, taking into account energy, environmental and economic impacts, and other costs. The Regional Director will verify the BACT on a case-by-case basis, and it may include reductions achieved through the application of processes, systems, and techniques for the control of each criteria air pollutant and VOC.
Coastal environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of
the terrestrial ecosystem from the shoreline inward to the boundaries of the coastal zone.
Coastal zone
means the coastal waters (including the lands therein and thereunder) and the adjacent shorelands (including the waters therein and thereunder) strongly influenced by each other and in proximity to the shorelands of the several coastal States. The coastal zone includes islands, transition and intertidal areas, salt marshes, wetlands, and beaches. The coastal zone extends seaward to the outer limit of the U.S. territorial sea and extends inland from the shorelines to the extent necessary to control shorelands, the uses of which have a direct and significant impact on the coastal waters, and the inward boundaries of which may be identified by the several coastal States, under the authority in section 305(b)(1) of the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) of 1972.
Competitive reservoir
means a reservoir in which there are one or more producible or producing well completions on each of two or more leases or portions of leases, with different lease operating interests, from which the lessees plan future production.
Correlative rights
when used with respect to lessees of adjacent leases, means the right of each lessee to be afforded an equal opportunity to explore for, develop, and produce, without waste, minerals from a common source.
Criteria air pollutant
means any air pollutant for which the United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) has established a primary or secondary National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) pursuant to section 109 of the Clean Air Act.
Data
means facts and statistics, measurements, or samples that have not been analyzed, processed, or interpreted.
Departures
mean approvals granted by the appropriate BSEE or BOEM representative for operating requirements/procedures other than those specified in the regulations found in this part. These requirements/procedures may be necessary to control a well; properly develop a lease; conserve natural resources, or protect life, property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment.
Development
means those activities that take place following discovery of minerals in paying quantities, including but not limited to geophysical activity, drilling, platform construction, and operation of all directly related onshore support facilities, and which are for the purpose of producing the minerals discovered.
Development geological and geophysical (G
G) activities
means those G
G and related data-gathering activities on your lease or unit that you conduct following discovery of oil, gas, or sulfur in paying quantities to detect or imply the presence of oil, gas, or sulfur in commercial quantities.
Director
means the Director of BOEM of the U.S. Department of the Interior, or an official authorized to act on the Director's behalf.
District Manager
means the BSEE officer with authority and responsibility for operations or other designated program functions for a district within a BSEE Region.
Eastern Gulf of America
means all OCS areas of the Gulf of America the BOEM Director decides are adjacent to the State of Florida. The Eastern Gulf of America is not the same as the Eastern Planning Area, an area established for OCS lease sales.
Emission offsets
mean emission reductions obtained from facilities, either onshore or offshore, other than the facility or facilities covered by the proposed Exploration Plan (EP), Development and Production Plan (DPP), or Development Operations Coordination Document (DOCD).
Enhanced recovery operations
mean pressure maintenance operations, secondary and tertiary recovery, cycling, and similar recovery operations that alter the natural forces in a reservoir to increase the ultimate recovery of oil or gas.
Existing facility,
as used in § 550.303, means an Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) facility described in an Exploration Plan, a Development and Production Plan, or a Development Operations Coordination Document, approved before June 2, 1980.
Exploration
means the commercial search for oil, gas, or sulfur. Activities
classified as exploration include but are not limited to:
(1) Geophysical and geological (G
G) surveys using magnetic, gravity, seismic reflection, seismic refraction, gas sniffers, coring, or other systems to detect or imply the presence of oil, gas, or sulfur; and
(2) Any drilling conducted for the purpose of searching for commercial quantities of oil, gas, and sulfur, including the drilling of any additional well needed to delineate any reservoir to enable the lessee to decide whether to proceed with development and production.
Facility,
as used in § 550.303, means all installations or devices permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed. They include mobile offshore drilling units (MODUs), even while operating in the “tender assist” mode (
i.e.,
with skid-off drilling units) or other vessels engaged in drilling or downhole operations. They are used for exploration, development, and production activities for oil, gas, or sulfur and emit or have the potential to emit any air pollutant from one or more sources. They include all floating production systems (FPSs), including column-stabilized-units (CSUs); floating production, storage and offloading facilities (FPSOs); tension-leg platforms (TLPs); spars, etc. During production, multiple installations or devices are a single facility if the installations or devices are at a single site. Any vessel used to transfer production from an offshore facility is part of the facility while it is physically attached to the facility.
Financial assurance
means a surety bond, a pledge of Treasury securities, a decommissioning account, a third-party guarantee, or another form of security acceptable to the BOEM Regional Director, that is used to ensure compliance with obligations under the regulations in this part and under the terms of a lease, a RUE grant, or a pipeline ROW grant.
Flaring
means the burning of natural gas as it is released into the atmosphere.
Gas reservoir
means a reservoir that contains hydrocarbons predominantly in a gaseous (single-phase) state.
Gas-well completion
means a well completed in a gas reservoir or in the associated gas-cap of an oil reservoir.
Geological and geophysical (G
G) explorations
mean those G
G surveys on your lease or unit that use seismic reflection, seismic refraction, magnetic, gravity, gas sniffers, coring, or other systems to detect or imply the presence of oil, gas, or sulfur in commercial quantities.
Governor
means the Governor of a State, or the person or entity designated by, or under, State law to exercise the powers granted to such Governor under the Act.
H2S absent
means:
(1) Drilling, logging, coring, testing, or producing operations have confirmed the absence of H2S in concentrations that could potentially result in atmospheric concentrations of 20 ppm or more of H2S; or
(2) Drilling in the surrounding areas and correlation of geological and seismic data with equivalent stratigraphic units have confirmed an absence of H2S throughout the area to be drilled.
H2S present
means drilling, logging, coring, testing, or producing operations have confirmed the presence of H2S in concentrations and volumes that could potentially result in atmospheric concentrations of 20 ppm or more of H2S.
H2S unknown
means the designation of a zone or geologic formation where neither the presence nor absence of H2S has been confirmed.
Human environment
means the physical, social, and economic components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the state, condition, and quality of living conditions, employment, and health of those affected, directly or indirectly, by activities occurring on the OCS.
Interpreted geological information
means geological knowledge, often in the form of schematic cross sections, 3-dimensional representations, and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of data and analyzed geological information.
Interpreted geophysical information
means geophysical knowledge, often in the form of schematic cross sections, 3-dimensional representations, and maps,
developed by determining the geological significance of geophysical data and analyzed geophysical information.
Lease
means an agreement that is issued under section 8 or maintained under section 6 of the Act and that authorizes exploration for, and development and production of, minerals. The term also means the area covered by that authorization, whichever the context requires.
Lease term pipelines
mean those pipelines owned and operated by a lessee or operator that are completely contained within the boundaries of a single lease, unit, or contiguous (not cornering) leases of that lessee or operator.
Lessee
means a person who has entered into a lease with the United States to explore for, develop, and produce the leased minerals. The term lessee also includes the BOEM-approved assignee of the lease, and the owner or the BOEM-approved assignee of operating rights for the lease.
Major Federal action
means any action or proposal by the Secretary that is subject to the provisions of section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C. (2)(C) (
i.e.,
an action that will have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment requiring preparation of an environmental impact statement under section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act).
Marine environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the marine ecosystem. These include the waters of the high seas, the contiguous zone, transitional and intertidal areas, salt marshes, and wetlands within the coastal zone and on the OCS.
Material remains
means physical evidence of human habitation, occupation, use, or activity, including the site, location, or context in which such evidence is situated.
Maximum efficient rate (MER)
means the maximum sustainable daily oil or gas withdrawal rate from a reservoir that will permit economic development and depletion of that reservoir without detriment to ultimate recovery.
Maximum production rate (MPR)
means the approved maximum daily rate at which oil or gas may be produced from a specified oil-well or gas-well completion.
Minerals
include oil, gas, sulfur, geopressured-geothermal and associated resources, and all other minerals that are authorized by an Act of Congress to be produced.
Natural resources
include, without limiting the generality thereof, oil, gas, and all other minerals, and fish, shrimp, oysters, clams, crabs, lobsters, sponges, kelp, and other marine animal and plant life but does not include water power or the use of water for the production of power.
Nonattainment area
means, for any criteria air pollutant, an area which is shown by monitored data or which is calculated by air quality modeling (or other methods determined by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA to be reliable) to exceed any primary or secondary NAAQS established by the U.S. EPA.
Nonsensitive reservoir
means a reservoir in which ultimate recovery is not decreased by high reservoir production rates.
Oil reservoir
means a reservoir that contains hydrocarbons predominantly in a liquid (single-phase) state.
Oil reservoir with an associated gas cap
means a reservoir that contains hydrocarbons in both a liquid and gaseous (two-phase) state.
Oil-well completion
means a well completed in an oil reservoir or in the oil accumulation of an oil reservoir with an associated gas cap.
Operating rights
mean any interest held in a lease with the right to explore for, develop, and produce leased substances.
Operator
means the person the lessee(s) designates as having control or management of operations on the leased area or a portion thereof. An operator may be a lessee, the BOEM-approved or BSEE-approved designated agent of the lessee(s), or the holder of operating rights under a BOEM-approved operating rights assignment.
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)
means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C.
1301) whose subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Person
includes a natural person, an association (including partnerships, joint ventures, and trusts), a State, a political subdivision of a State, or a private, public, or municipal corporation.
Pipelines
are the piping, risers, and appurtenances installed for transporting oil, gas, sulfur, and produced waters.
Processed geological or geophysical information
means data collected under a permit or a lease that have been processed or reprocessed. Processing involves changing the form of data to facilitate interpretation. Processing operations may include, but are not limited to, applying corrections for known perturbing causes, rearranging or filtering data, and combining or transforming data elements. Reprocessing is the additional processing other than ordinary processing used in the general course of evaluation. Reprocessing operations may include varying identified parameters for the detailed study of a specific problem area.
Production
means those activities that take place after the successful completion of any means for the removal of minerals, including such removal, field operations, transfer of minerals to shore, operation monitoring, maintenance, and workover operations.
Production areas
are those areas where flammable petroleum gas, volatile liquids or sulfur are produced, processed (e.g., compressed), stored, transferred (
e.g.,
pumped), or otherwise handled before entering the transportation process.
Projected emissions
mean emissions, either controlled or uncontrolled, from a source or sources.
Prospect
means a geologic feature having the potential for mineral deposits.
Regional Director
means the BOEM officer with responsibility and authority for a Region within BOEM.
Regional Supervisor
means the BOEM officer with responsibility and authority for operations or other designated program functions within a BOEM Region.
Right-of-Use and Easement (RUE)
means a right to use a portion of the seabed, at an OCS site other than on a lease you own, to construct, secure to the seafloor, use, modify, or maintain platforms, seafloor production equipment, artificial islands, facilities, installations, and/or other devices to support the exploration, development, or production of oil, gas, or sulfur resources from an OCS lease or a lease on State submerged lands.
Right-of-way (ROW) pipelines
are those pipelines that are contained within:
(1) The boundaries of a single lease or unit, but are not owned and operated by a lessee or operator of that lease or unit;
(2) The boundaries of contiguous (not cornering) leases that do not have a common lessee or operator;
(3) The boundaries of contiguous (not cornering) leases that have a common lessee or operator but are not owned and operated by that common lessee or operator; or
(4) An unleased block(s).
Sensitive reservoir
means a reservoir in which the production rate will affect ultimate recovery.
Significant archaeological resource
means those archaeological resources that meet the criteria of significance for eligibility to the National Register of Historic Places as defined in 36 CFR 60.4, or its successor.
Suspension
means a granted or directed deferral of the requirement to produce (Suspension of Production (SOP)) or to conduct leaseholding operations (Suspension of Operations (SOO)).
Transfer
means to convey an ownership interest in an oil, gas, or sulfur lease, ROW grant or RUE grant. For the purposes of this part, “transfer” is synonymous with “assign” and the two terms are used interchangeably.
Venting
means the release of gas into the atmosphere without igniting it. This includes gas that is released underwater and bubbles to the atmosphere.
Volatile organic compound (VOC)
means any organic compound that is emitted to the atmosphere as a vapor. Unreactive compounds are excluded
from the preceding sentence of this definition.
Waste of oil, gas, or sulfur
means:
(1) The physical waste of oil, gas, or sulfur;
(2) The inefficient, excessive, or improper use, or the unnecessary dissipation of reservoir energy;
(3) The locating, spacing, drilling, equipping, operating, or producing of any oil, gas, or sulfur well(s) in a manner that causes or tends to cause a reduction in the quantity of oil, gas, or sulfur ultimately recoverable under prudent and proper operations or that causes or tends to cause unnecessary or excessive surface loss or destruction of oil or gas; or
(4) The inefficient storage of oil.
Welding
means all activities connected with welding, including hot tapping and burning.
Wellbay
is the area on a facility within the perimeter of the outermost wellheads.
Well-completion operations
mean the work conducted to establish production from a well after the production-casing string has been set, cemented, and pressure-tested.
Well-control fluid
means drilling mud, completion fluid, or workover fluid as appropriate to the particular operation being conducted.
Western Gulf of America
means all OCS areas of the Gulf of America except those the BOEM Director decides are adjacent to the State of Florida. The Western Gulf of America is not the same as the Western Planning Area, an area established for OCS lease sales.
Workover operations
mean the work conducted on wells after the initial well-completion operation for the purpose of maintaining or restoring the productivity of a well.
You,
depending on the context of this part, means a bidder, a lessee (record title owner), a sublessee (operating rights owner), a Federal or State RUE grant holder, a pipeline ROW grant holder, an assignor or transferor, a designated operator or agent of the lessee or grant holder, or an applicant seeking to become one of the individuals listed in this definition.
[89 FR 31586, Apr. 24, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 71182, Oct. 3, 2024; 90 FR 15532, Apr. 14, 2025]

# Performance Standards
§ 550.115
How do I determine well producibility?
You must follow the procedures in this section to determine well producibility if your well is not in the GOA. If your well is in the GOA you must follow the procedures in either this section or in § 550.116 of this subpart.
(a) You must write to the Regional Supervisor asking for permission to determine producibility.
(b) You must either:
(1) Allow the Regional Supervisor to witness each test that you conduct under this section; or
(2) Receive the Regional Supervisor prior approval so that you can submit either test data with your affidavit or third party test data.
(c) If the well is an oil well, you must conduct a production test that lasts at least 2 hours after flow stabilizes.
(d) If the well is a gas well, you must conduct a deliverability test that lasts at least 2 hours after flow stabilizes, or a four-point back pressure test.
§ 550.116
How do I determine producibility if my well is in the Gulf of America?
If your well is in the GOA, you must follow either the procedures in § 550.115 of this subpart or the procedures in this section to determine producibility.
(a) You must write to the Regional Supervisor asking for permission to determine producibility.
(b) You must provide or make available to the Regional Supervisor, as requested, the following log, core, analyses, and test criteria that BOEM will consider collectively:
(1) A log showing sufficient porosity in the producible section.
(2) Sidewall cores and core analyses that show that the section is capable of producing oil or gas.
(3) Wireline formation test and/or mud-logging analyses that show that the section is capable of producing oil or gas.
(4) A resistivity or induction electric log of the well showing a minimum of 15 feet (true vertical thickness except for horizontal wells) of producible sand in one section.
(c) No section that you count as producible under paragraph (b)(4) of this section may include any interval that appears to be water saturated.
(d) Each section you count as producible under paragraph (b)(4) of this section must exhibit:
(1) A minimum true resistivity ratio of the producible section to the nearest clean or water-bearing sand of at least 5:1; and
(2) One of the following:
(i) Electrical spontaneous potential exceeding 20-negative millivolts beyond the shale baseline; or
(ii) Gamma ray log deflection of at least 70 percent of the maximum gamma ray deflection in the nearest clean water-bearing sand—if mud conditions prevent a 20-negative millivolt reading beyond the shale baseline.
§ 550.117
How does a determination of well producibility affect royalty status?
A determination of well producibility invokes minimum royalty status on the lease as provided in 30 CFR 1202.53.
§ 550.118
[Reserved]
§ 550.119
Will BOEM approve subsurface gas storage?
The Regional Supervisor may authorize subsurface storage of gas on the OCS, on and off-lease, for later commercial benefit. The Regional Supervisor may authorize subsurface storage of gas on the OCS, off-lease, for later commercial benefit. To receive approval you must:
(a) Show that the subsurface storage of gas will not result in undue interference with operations under existing leases; and
(b) Sign a storage agreement that includes the required payment of a storage fee or rental.
§ 550.120
What standards will BOEM use to regulate leases, rights-of-use and easement, and rights-of-way?
BOEM will regulate all activities under a lease, a right-of-use and easement, or a right-of-way to:
(a) Promote the orderly exploration, development, and production of mineral resources;
(b) Prevent injury or loss of life;
(c) Prevent damage to or waste of any natural resource, property, or the environment; and
(d) Ensure cooperation and consultation with affected States, local governments, other interested parties, and relevant Federal agencies.
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 550.121
What must I do to protect health, safety, property, and the environment?
The Director may require additional measures to ensure the use of Best Available and Safest Technology (BAST) as identified by BSEE:
(a) To avoid the failure of equipment that would have a significant effect on safety, health, or the environment;
(b) If it is economically feasible; and
(c) If the incremental benefits justify the incremental costs.
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 550.122
What effect does subsurface storage have on the lease term?
If you use a lease area for subsurface storage of gas, it does not affect the continuance or expiration of the lease.
§ 550.123
Will BOEM allow gas storage on unleased lands?
You may not store gas on unleased lands unless the Regional Supervisor approves a right-of-use and easement for that purpose, under §§ 550.160 through 550.166 of this subpart.

# Fees
§ 550.125
Service fees.
(a) The table in this paragraph (a) shows the fees that you must pay to BOEM for the services listed. The fees will be adjusted periodically according to the Implicit Price Deflator for Gross Domestic Product by publication of a document in the
Federal Register.
If a significant adjustment is needed to arrive at the new actual cost for any reason other than inflation, then a proposed rule containing the new fees will be published in the
Federal Register
for comment.
Service Fee Table
Service—processing of the following:
Fee amount
30 CFR citation
(1) Change in Designation of Operator
$230
§ 550.143(d).
(2) Right-of-Use and Easement for State lessee
$3,601
§ 550.165.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) Exploration Plan (EP)
$4,823 for each surface location; no fee for revisions
§ 550.211(d).
(5) Development and Production Plan (DPP) or Development Operations Coordination Document (DOCD)
$5,565 for each well proposed; no fee for revisions
§ 550.241(e).
(6) [Reserved]
(7) Conservation Information Document
$35,914
§ 550.296(a).
(b) Payment of the fees listed in paragraph (a) of this section must accompany the submission of the document for approval or be sent to an office identified by the Regional Director. Once a fee is paid, it is nonrefundable, even if an application or other request is withdrawn. If your application is returned to you as incomplete, you are not required to submit a new fee when you submit the amended application.
(c) Verbal approvals are occasionally given in special circumstances. Any action that will be considered a verbal permit approval requires either a paper permit application to follow the verbal approval or an electronic application submittal within 72 hours. Payment must be made with the completed paper or electronic application.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 87 FR 52445, Aug. 26, 2022; 89 FR 70493, Aug. 30, 2024]
§ 550.126
Electronic payment instructions.
You must file all payments electronically through
Pay.gov.
This includes, but is not limited to, all OCS applications or filing fee payments. The
Pay.gov
Web site may be accessed through
Pay.gov
at
https://www.pay.gov/paygov/.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) You must use credit card or automated clearing house (ACH) payments through the
Pay.gov
Web site, and you must include a copy of the
Pay.gov
confirmation receipt page with your application.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57096, Sept. 22, 2015]

# Inspection of Operations
§ 550.130
[Reserved]

# Disqualification
§ 550.135
What will BOEM do if my operating performance is unacceptable?
If your operating performance is unacceptable, BOEM may disapprove or revoke your designation as operator on a single facility or multiple facilities. We will give you adequate notice and opportunity for a review by BOEM officials before imposing a disqualification.
§ 550.136
How will BOEM determine if my performance is unacceptable?
In determining if your operating performance is unacceptable, BOEM will consider, individually or collectively:
(a)-(b) [Reserved]
(c) Incidents of noncompliance;
(d) Civil penalties;
(e) Failure to adhere to OCS lease obligations; or
(f) Any other relevant factors.

# Special Types of Approvals
§ 550.140
When will I receive an oral approval?
When you apply for BOEM approval of any activity, we normally give you a written decision. The following table shows circumstances under which we may give an oral approval.
When you . . .
We may . . .
And . . .
(a) Request approval orally,
Give you an oral approval,
You must then confirm the oral request by sending us a written request within 72 hours.
(b) Request approval in writing,
Give you an oral approval if quick action is needed,
We will send you a written approval afterward. It will include any conditions that we place on the oral approval.
§ 550.141
May I ever use alternate procedures or equipment?
You may use alternate procedures or equipment after receiving approval as described in this section.
(a) Any alternate procedures or equipment that you propose to use must provide a level of safety and environmental protection that equals or surpasses current BOEM requirements.
(b) You must receive the Regional Supervisor's written approval before you can use alternate procedures or equipment.
(c) To receive approval, you must either submit information or give an oral presentation to the appropriate Regional Supervisor. Your presentation must describe the site-specific application(s), performance characteristics, and safety features of the proposed procedure or equipment.
§ 550.142
How do I receive approval for departures?
We may approve departures to the operating requirements. You may apply for a departure by writing to the Regional Supervisor.
§ 550.143
How do I designate an operator?
(a) You must provide the Regional Supervisor an executed Designation of Operator form (Form BOEM-1123) unless you are the only lessee and are the only person conducting lease operations. When there is more than one lessee, each lessee must submit the Designation of Operator form and the Regional Supervisor must approve the designation before the designated operator may begin operations on the leasehold.
(b) This designation is authority for the designated operator to act on your behalf and to fulfill your obligations under the Act, the lease, and the regulations in this part.
(c) You, or your designated operator, must immediately provide the Regional Supervisor a written notification of any change of address.
(d) If you change the designated operator on your lease, you must pay the service fee listed in § 550.125 of this subpart with your request for a change in designation of operator. Should there be multiple lessees, all designation of operator forms must be collected by one lessee and submitted to BOEM in a single submittal, which is subject to only one filing fee.
§ 550.144
How do I designate a new operator when a designation of operator terminates?
(a) When a Designation of Operator terminates, the Regional Supervisor must approve a new designated operator before you may continue operations. Each lessee must submit a new executed Designation of Operator form.
(b) If your Designation of Operator is terminated, or a controversy develops between you and your designated operator, you and your designated operator must protect the lessor's interests.
§ 550.146
How do I designate an agent or a local agent?
(a) You or your designated operator may designate for the Regional Supervisor's approval, or the Regional Director may require you to designate an agent empowered to fulfill your obligations under the Act, the lease, or the regulations in this part.
(b) You or your designated operator may designate for the Regional Supervisor's approval a local agent empowered to receive notices and submit requests, applications, notices, or supplemental information.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 550.147
Who is responsible for fulfilling leasehold obligations?
(a) When you are not the sole lessee, you and your co-lessee(s) are jointly and severally responsible for fulfilling your obligations under the provisions
of 30 CFR parts 250 through 282 and 30 CFR parts 550 through 582 unless otherwise provided in these regulations.
(b) If your designated operator fails to fulfill any of your obligations under 30 CFR parts 250 through 282 and 30 CFR parts 550 through 582, the Regional Supervisor may require you or any or all of your co-lessees to fulfill those obligations or other operational obligations under the Act, the lease, or the regulations.
(c) Whenever the regulations in 30 CFR parts 250 through 282 and 30 CFR parts 550 through 582 require the lessee to meet a requirement or perform an action, the lessee, operator (if one has been designated), and the person actually performing the activity to which the requirement applies are jointly and severally responsible for complying with the regulation.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016]

# Right-of-Use and Easement
§ 550.160
When will BOEM grant me a right-of-use and easement (RUE), and what requirements must I meet?
(a) A RUE is required to construct, secure to the seafloor, use, modify, or maintain platforms, seafloor production equipment, artificial islands, facilities, installations, and/or other devices at an OCS site other than an OCS lease you own, that are:
(1) Permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed; and
(2) Used for conducting exploration, development, and production activities or other operations on or off lease; or
(3) Used for other purposes approved by BOEM.
(b) You must exercise the RUE according to the terms of the grant and the regulations in this part.
(c) You must meet the qualification requirements at §§ 556.400 through 556.402 of this subchapter and the applicable financial assurance requirements in this section and part 556, subpart I of this subchapter.
(d) If you apply for a RUE on a leased area, you must notify the lessee and give her/him an opportunity to comment on your application; and
(e) You must receive BOEM approval for all platforms, seafloor production equipment, artificial islands, facilities, installations, and/or other devices permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed.
(f) You must pay a rental amount as required by paragraph (g) of this section if:
(1) You obtain a RUE after January 12, 2004; or
(2) You ask BOEM to modify your RUE to change the footprint of the associated platform, seafloor production equipment, artificial island, facility, installation, and/or device.
(g) If you meet either of the conditions in paragraph (f) of this section, you must pay a rental amount to BOEM as shown in the following table:
If . . .
Then . . .
(1) Your right-of-use and easement site is located in water depths of less than 200 meters;
You must pay a rental of $5 per acre per year with a minimum of $450 per year. The area subject to annual rental includes the areal extent of anchor chains, pipeline risers, and other equipment associated with the platform, artificial island, installation or device.
(2) Your right-of-use and easement site is located in water depths of 200 meters or greater;
You must pay a rental of $7.50 per acre per year with a minimum of $675 per year. The area subject to annual rental includes the areal extent of anchor chains, pipeline risers, and other equipment associated with the platform, artificial island, or installation or device.
(h) You may make the rental payments required by paragraph (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section on an annual basis, for a 5-year period, or for multiples of 5 years. You must make the first payment electronically through
Pay.gov
and you must include a copy of the
Pay.gov
confirmation receipt page with your right-of-use and easement application. You must make all subsequent payments before the respective time periods begin.
(i)
Late payments.
An interest charge will be assessed on unpaid and underpaid amounts from the date the amounts are due, in accordance with
the provisions found in 30 CFR 1218.54. If you fail to make a payment that is late after written notice from BOEM, BOEM may initiate cancellation of the right-of-use grant and easement.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 31589, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 550.161
What else must I submit with my application?
With your application, you must describe the proposed use giving:
(a) Details of the proposed uses and activities including access needs and special rights of use that you may need;
(b) A description of all facilities for which you are seeking authorization;
(c) A map or plat describing primary and alternate project locations; and
(d) A schedule for constructing any new facilities, drilling or completing any wells, anticipated production rates, and productive life of existing production facilities.
§ 550.162
May I continue my right-of-use and easement after the termination of any lease on which it is situated?
If your right-of-use and easement is on a lease, you may continue to exercise the right-of-use and easement after the lease on which it is situated terminates. You must only use the right-of-use and easement for the purpose that the grant specifies. All future lessees of that portion of the OCS on which your right-of-use and easement is situated must continue to recognize the right-of-use and easement for the purpose that the grant specifies.
§ 550.163
If I have a State lease, will BOEM grant me a right-of-use and easement?
(a) BOEM may grant a lessee of a State lease located adjacent to or accessible from the OCS a right-of-use and easement on the OCS.
(b) BOEM will only grant a right-of-use and easement under this paragraph to enable a State lessee to conduct and maintain a device that is permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed (
i.e.,
a platform, artificial island, or installation). The lessee must use the device to explore for, develop, and produce oil and gas from the adjacent or accessible State lease and for other operations related to these activities.
§ 550.164
If I have a State lease, what conditions apply for a right-of-use and easement?
(a) A right-of-use and easement granted under the heading of “Right-of-use and easement” in this subpart is subject to BOEM regulations, 30 CFR parts 550 through 582, BSEE regulations, 30 CFR parts 250 through 282, and any terms and conditions that the BOEM Regional Director or BSEE Regional Director prescribes.
(b) For the whole or fraction of the first calendar year, and annually after that, you must pay to BOEM, in advance, an annual rental payment.
§ 550.165
If I have a State lease, what fees do I have to pay for a right-of-use and easement?
When you apply for a right-of-use and easement, you must pay:
(a) A nonrefundable filing fee as specified in § 550.125; and
(b) The first year's rental as specified in § 550.160(g).
§ 550.166
If BOEM grants me a RUE, what financial assurance must I provide?
(a) Before BOEM grants you a RUE on the OCS, you must submit or maintain financial assurance of $500,000, which will guarantee compliance with the regulations and the terms and conditions of all RUEs you hold.
(1) You are not required to submit and maintain the financial assurance of $500,000 pursuant to this paragraph (a) if you furnish and maintain area-wide lease financial assurance in excess of $500,000 pursuant to § 556.901(a) of this subchapter, provided that the area-wide lease financial assurance also guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of all RUEs you hold in the area.
(2) The Regional Director may reduce the amount required in this paragraph (a) upon a determination that the reduced amount is sufficient to guarantee compliance with the regulations and the terms and conditions of all RUE grant(s) you hold.
(3) The requirements for financial assurance in §§ 556.900(d) through (g) 556.902 of this subchapter apply to the
financial assurance required under paragraph (a) of this section.
(b) If BOEM grants you a RUE that serves either an OCS lease or a State lease, the Regional Director may require supplemental financial assurance above the amount required by paragraph (a) of this section, to ensure compliance with the obligations under your RUE grant, based on an evaluation of your ability to carry out present and future obligations on the RUE using the criteria set forth in § 556.901(d)(1) through (3) of this subchapter. This supplemental financial assurance must:
(1) Meet the requirements of §§ 556.900(d) through (g) and 556.902 of this subchapter; and
(2) Cover costs and liabilities for compliance with the obligations of your RUE grants and with applicable BOEM and Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) orders.
(c) If you fail to replace any deficient financial assurance upon demand or fail to provide supplemental financial assurance upon demand, the Regional Director may:
(1) Assess penalties under subpart N of this part;
(2) Request BSEE to suspend operations on your RUE; and/or
(3) Initiate action for cancellation of your RUE grant.
[89 FR 31589, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 550.167
How may I obtain or assign my interest in a RUE?
(a) To obtain a RUE or request an assignment of an interest in a RUE, the applicant or assignee must file an application and provide the information contained in § 550.161 if a change in uses is planned and must obtain BOEM's approval.
(b) An application for approval of an assignment of an interest in a RUE, in whole or in part, must be filed in triplicate with the Regional Director. Such application must be supported by a statement that the assignee agrees to comply with and to be bound by the terms and conditions of the RUE grant. The assignee must satisfy the bonding requirements in § 550.166. No RUE assignment will be recognized unless and until it is first approved, in writing, by the Regional Director. The assignee of an interest in a RUE must pay the same service fee as that listed in § 550.106(a)(1) for a lease record title assignment request.
(c) BOEM may disapprove an assignment in the following circumstances:
(1) When the assignee has unsatisfied obligations under the regulations in this chapter or in chapters II or XII of this title, or under any applicable BOEM or BSEE order;
(2) When an assignment is not acceptable as to form or content (e.g., containing incorrect legal description, not executed by a person authorized to bind the corporation, assignee does not meet the requirements of §§ 556.401 through 556.405 of this subchapter);
(3) When the assignment does not comply with or would conflict with this part, or any other applicable laws or regulations (e.g., Departmental debarment rules); or
(4) When the assignee does not meet the applicable financial assurance requirements in § 550.166 and part 556, subpart I of this subchapter, or has not complied with a BOEM or BSEE order.
[89 FR 31589, Apr. 24, 2024]

# Primary Lease Requirements, Lease Term Extensions, and Lease Cancellations
§ 550.181
When may the Secretary cancel my lease and when am I compensated for cancellation?
If the Secretary cancels your lease under this part or under 30 CFR part 556, you are entitled to compensation under § 550.184. Section 550.185 states conditions under which you will receive no compensation. The Secretary may cancel a lease after notice and opportunity for a hearing when:
(a) Continued activity on the lease would probably cause harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, any mineral deposits (in areas leased or not leased), or the marine, coastal, or human environment;
(b) The threat of harm or damage will not disappear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a reasonable period of time;
(c) The advantages of cancellation outweigh the advantages of continuing the lease in force; and
(d) A suspension has been in effect for at least 5 years or you request termination of the suspension and lease cancellation.
§ 550.182
When may the Secretary cancel a lease at the exploration stage?
BOEM may not approve an exploration plan (EP) under 30 CFR part 550, subpart B, if the Regional Supervisor determines that the proposed activities may cause serious harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, any mineral deposits, the National security or defense, or to the marine, coastal, or human environment, and that the proposed activity cannot be modified to avoid the condition(s). The Secretary may cancel the lease if:
(a) The primary lease term has not expired (or if the lease term has been extended) and exploration has been prohibited for 5 years following the disapproval; or
(b) You request cancellation at an earlier time.
§ 550.183
When may BOEM or the Secretary extend or cancel a lease at the development and production stage?
(a) BOEM may extend your lease if you submit a DPP and the Regional Supervisor disapproves the plan according to the regulations in 30 CFR part 550, subpart B. Following the disapproval:
(1) BOEM will allow you to hold the lease for 5 years, or less time at your request;
(2) Any time within 5 years after the disapproval, you may reapply for approval of the same or a modified plan; and
(3) The Regional Supervisor will approve, disapprove, or require modification of the plan under 30 CFR part 550, subpart B.
(b) If the Regional Supervisor has not approved a DPP or required you to submit a DPP for approval or modification, the Secretary will cancel the lease:
(1) When the 5-year period in paragraph (a)(1) of this section expires; or
(2) If you request cancellation at an earlier time.
§ 550.184
What is the amount of compensation for lease cancellation?
When the Secretary cancels a lease under §§ 550.181, 550.182 or 550.183 of this subpart, you are entitled to receive compensation under 43 U.S.C. 1334(a)(2)(C). You must show the Director that the amount of compensation claimed is the lesser of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section:
(a) The fair value of the cancelled rights as of the date of cancellation, taking into account both:
(1) Anticipated revenues from the lease; and
(2) Costs reasonably anticipated on the lease, including:
(i) Costs of compliance with all applicable regulations and operating orders; and
(ii) Liability for cleanup costs or damages, or both, in the case of an oil spill.
(b) The excess, if any, over your revenues from the lease (plus interest thereon from the date of receipt to date of reimbursement) of:
(1) All consideration paid for the lease (plus interest from the date of payment to the date of reimbursement); and
(2) All your direct expenditures (plus interest from the date of payment to the date of reimbursement):
(i) After the issue date of the lease; and
(ii) For exploration or development, or both.
(c) Compensation for leases issued before September 18, 1978, will be equal to the amount specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 550.185
When is there no compensation for a lease cancellation?
You will not receive compensation from BOEM for lease cancellation if:
(a) BOEM disapproves a DPP because you do not receive concurrence by the State under section 307(c)(3)(B)(i) or (ii) of the CZMA, and the Secretary of Commerce does not make the finding authorized by section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of the CZMA;
(b) You do not submit a DPP under 30 CFR part 550, subpart B or do not comply with the approved DPP;
(c) As the lessee of a nonproducing lease, you fail to comply with the Act,
the lease, or the regulations issued under the Act, and the default continues for 30 days after BOEM mails you a notice by overnight mail;
(d) The Regional Supervisor disapproves a DPP because you fail to comply with the requirements of applicable Federal law; or
(e) The Secretary forfeits and cancels a producing lease under section 5(d) of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1334(d)).

# Information and Reporting Requirements
§ 550.186
What reporting information and report forms must I submit?
(a) You must submit information and reports as BOEM requires.
(1) You may obtain copies of forms from, and submit completed forms to, the Regional Supervisor.
(2) Instead of paper copies of forms available from the Regional Supervisor, you may use your own computer-generated forms that are equal in size to BOEM's forms. You must arrange the data on your form identical to the BOEM form. If you generate your own form and it omits terms and conditions contained on the official BOEM form, we will consider it to contain the omitted terms and conditions.
(3) You may submit digital data when the Region is equipped to accept it.
(b) When BOEM specifies, you must include, for public information, an additional copy of such reports.
(1) You must mark it
Public Information.
(2) You must include all required information, except information exempt from public disclosure under § 550.197 or otherwise exempt from public disclosure under law or regulation.
§§ 550.187-550.193
[Reserved]
§ 550.194
How must I protect archaeological resources?
(a) If the Regional Director has reason to believe that an archaeological resource may exist in the lease area, the Regional Director will require in writing that your EP, DOCD, or DPP be accompanied by an archaeological report. If the archaeological report suggests that an archaeological resource may be present, you must either:
(1) Locate the site of any operation so as not to adversely affect the area where the archaeological resource may be; or
(2) Establish to the satisfaction of the Regional Director that an archaeological resource does not exist or will not be adversely affected by operations. This requires further archaeological investigation, conducted by an archaeologist and a geophysicist, using survey equipment and techniques the Regional Director considers appropriate. You must submit the investigation report to the Regional Director for review.
(b) If the Regional Director determines that an archaeological resource is likely to be present in the lease area and may be adversely affected by operations, the Regional Director will notify you immediately. You must not take any action that may adversely affect the archaeological resource until the Regional Director has told you how to protect the resource.
(c) If you discover any archaeological resource while conducting operations in the lease or right-of-way area, you must immediately halt operations within the area of the discovery and report the discovery to the BOEM Regional Director. If investigations determine that the resource is significant, the Regional Director will tell you how to protect it.
[90 FR 15532, Apr. 14, 2025]
§ 550.195
[Reserved]
§ 550.196
Reimbursements for reproduction and processing costs.
(a) BOEM will reimburse you for costs of reproducing data and information that the Regional Director requests if:
(1) You deliver geophysical and geological (G
G) data and information to BOEM for the Regional Director to inspect or select and retain;
(2) BOEM receives your request for reimbursement and the Regional Director determines that the requested reimbursement is proper; and
(3) The cost is at your lowest rate or at the lowest commercial rate established in the area, whichever is less.
(b) BOEM will reimburse you for the costs of processing geophysical information (that does not include cost of data acquisition):
(1) If, at the request of the Regional Director, you processed the geophysical data or information in a form or manner other than that used in the normal conduct of business; or
(2) If you collected the information under a permit that BOEM issued to you before October 1, 1985, and the Regional Director requests and retains the information.
(c) When you request reimbursement, you must identify reproduction and processing costs separately from acquisition costs.
(d) BOEM will not reimburse you for data acquisition costs or for the costs of analyzing or processing geological information or interpreting geological or geophysical information.
§ 550.197
Data and information to be made available to the public or for limited inspection.
BOEM will protect data and information that you submit under this chapter, as described in this section. Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section describe what data and information will be made available to the public without the consent of the lessee, under what circumstances, and in what time period. Paragraph (c) of this section describes what data and information will be made available for limited inspection without the consent of the lessee, and under what circumstances.
(a) All data and information you submit on BOEM forms will be made available to the public upon submission, except as specified in the following table:
On form . . .
Data and information not immediately available are . . .
Excepted data will be made available . . .
(1) [Reserved]
(2) [Reserved]
(3) [Reserved]
(4) [Reserved]
(5) [Reserved]
(6) BOEM-0127, Sensitive Reservoir Information Report,
Items 124 through 168,
2 years after the effective date of the Sensitive Reservoir Information Report.
(7) [Reserved]
(8) [Reserved]
(9) BOEM-0137 OCS Plan Information,
Items providing the bottomhole location, true vertical depth, and measured depth of wells,
When the well goes on production or according to the table in paragraph (b) of this section, whichever is earlier.
(10) BOEM-0140, Bottomhole Pressure Survey Report,
All items,
2 years after the date of the survey.
(b) BOEM will release lease and permit data and information that you submit and BOEM retains, but that are not normally submitted on BOEM forms, according to the following table:
If . . .
BOEM will release . . .
At this time . . .
Special provisions . . .
(1) The Director determines that data and information are needed for specific scientific or research purposes for the Government,
Geophysical data, Geological data Interpreted G
G information, Processed G
G information, Analyzed geological information,
At any time,
BOEM will release data and information only if release would further the National interest without unduly damaging the competitive position of the lessee.
(2) Data or information is collected with high-resolution systems (e.g., bathymetry, side-scan sonar, subbottom profiler, and magnetometer) to comply with safety or environmental protection requirements,
Geophysical data, Geological data, Interpreted G
G information, Processed geological information, Analyzed geological information,
60 days after BOEM receives the data or information, if the Regional Supervisor deems it necessary,
BOEM will release the data and information earlier than 60 days if the Regional Supervisor determines it is needed by affected States to make decisions under subpart B. The Regional Supervisor will reconsider earlier release if you satisfy him/her that it would unduly damage your competitive position.
(3) Your lease is no longer in effect,
Geophysical data, Geological data, Processed G
G information Interpreted G
G information, Analyzed geological information,
When your lease terminates,
This release time applies only if the provisions in this table governing high-resolution systems and the provisions in § 552.7 do not apply. The release time applies to the geophysical data and information only if acquired postlease for a lessee's exclusive use.
(4) Your lease is still in effect,
Geophysical data, Processed geophysical information, Interpreted G
G information,
10 years after you submit the data and information,
This release time applies only if the provisions in this table governing high-resolution systems and the provisions in § 552.7 do not apply. This release time applies to the geophysical data and information only if acquired postlease for a lessee's exclusive use.
(5) Your lease is still in effect and within the primary term specified in the lease,
Geological data, analyzed geological information,
Two years after the required submittal date or 60 days after a lease sale if any portion of an offered lease is within 50 miles of a well, whichever is later,
These release times apply only if the provisions in this table governing high-resolution systems and the provisions in § 552.7 do not apply. If the primary term specified in the lease is extended, this provision applies to the extension.
(6) Your lease is in effect and beyond the primary term specified in the lease,
Geological data, Analyzed geological information,
2 years after the required submittal date,
None.
(7) Data or information is submitted on well operations,
Descriptions of downhole locations, operations, and equipment,
When the well goes on production or when geological data is released according to §§ 550.197(b)(5) and (b)(6), whichever occurs earlier,
Directional survey data may be released earlier to the owner of an adjacent lease according to 30 CFR 250 subpart D.
(8) Data and information are obtained from beneath unleased land as a result of a well deviation that has not been approved by the Regional Supervisor,
Any data or information obtained,
At any time,
None.
(9) Except for high-resolution data and information released under paragraph (b)(2) of this section data and information acquired by a permit under 30 CFR part 551 are submitted by a lessee under part 550, 30 CFR part 203, or 30 CFR part 250,
G
G data, analyzed geological information, processed and interpreted G
G information,
Geological data and information: 10 years after BOEM issues the permit; Geophysical data: 50 years after BOEM issues the permit; Geophysical information: 25 years after BOEM issues the permit,
None.
(c) BOEM may allow limited data and information inspection, but only by a person with a direct interest in related BOEM decisions and issues in a specific geographic area, and who agrees in writing to maintain the confidentiality
of geological and geophysical (G
G) data and information submitted under this part that BOEM uses to:
(1) Promote operational safety;
(2) Protect the environment; or
(3) Make field determinations.
(d) No proprietary information received by BOEM under 43 U.S.C. 1352 will be transmitted to any affected State unless the lessee, or the permittee and all persons to whom such permittee has sold such information under promise of confidentiality, agree to such transmittal.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016]

# References
§ 550.198
[Reserved]
§ 550.199
Paperwork Reduction Act statements—information collection.
(a) OMB has approved the information collection requirements in part 550 under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
The table in paragraph (e) of this section lists the subpart in the rule requiring the information and its title, provides the OMB control number, and summarizes the reasons for collecting the information and how BOEM uses the information. The associated BOEM forms required by this part are listed at the end of this table with the relevant information.
(b) Respondents are OCS oil, gas, and sulfur lessees and operators. The requirement to respond to the information collections in this part is mandated under the Act (43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
) and the Act's Amendments of 1978 (43 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.
). Some responses are also required to obtain or retain a benefit or may be voluntary. Proprietary information will be protected under § 550.197; parts 551 and 552 of this subchapter; and the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and its implementing regulations at 43 CFR part 2.
(c) The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 requires us to inform the public that an agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
(d) Send comments regarding any aspect of the collections of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
(e) BOEM is collecting this information for the reasons given in the following table:
30 CFR subpart, title and/or BOEM Form (OMB Control No.)
Reasons for collecting information and how used
(1) Subpart A, General (1010-0114), including Forms BOEM-1123, Designation of Operator and BOEM-1832, Notification of Incidents of Noncompliance
To inform BOEM of actions taken to comply with general requirements on the OCS. To ensure that operations on the OCS meet statutory and regulatory requirements, are safe and protect the environment, and result in diligent exploration, development, and production on OCS leases. To support the unproved and proved reserve estimation, resource assessment, and fair market value determinations.
(2) Subpart B, Exploration and Development and Production Plans (1010-0151), including Forms BOEM-0137, OCS Plan Information Form; BOEM-0138, EP Air Quality Screening Checklist; BOEM-0139, DOCD Air Quality Screening Checklist; BOEM-0141, ROV Survey Report Form; and BOEM-0142, Environmental Impact Analysis Worksheet
To inform BOEM, States, and the public of planned exploration, development, and production operations on the OCS. To ensure that operations on the OCS are planned to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements, will be safe and protect the human, marine, and coastal environment, and will result in diligent exploration, development, and production of leases.
(3) Subpart C, Pollution Prevention and Control (1010-0057)
To inform BOEM of measures to be taken to prevent air pollution. To ensure that appropriate measures are taken to prevent air pollution.
(4) Subpart J, Pipelines and Pipeline Rights-of-Way (1010-0050), including Form BOEM-2030, Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Pipeline Right-of-Way Grant Bond
To provide BOEM with information regarding the design, installation, and operation of pipelines on the OCS. To ensure that pipeline operations are safe and protect the human, marine, and coastal environment.
(5) Subpart K, Oil and Gas Production Rates (1010-0041), including Forms BOEM-0127, Sensitive Reservoir Information Report and BOEM-0140, Bottomhole Pressure Survey Report
To inform BOEM of production rates for hydrocarbons produced on the OCS. To ensure economic maximization of ultimate hydrocarbon recovery.
(6) Subpart N, Remedies and Penalties
The requirements in subpart N are exempt from the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 according to 5 CFR 1320.4.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57096, Sept. 22, 2015; 89 FR 31590, Apr. 24, 2024]

# Subpart B—Plans and Information

# General Information
§ 550.200
Definitions.
Acronyms and terms used in this subpart have the following meanings:
(a)
Acronyms
used frequently in this subpart are listed alphabetically below:
BOEM
means Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.
BSEE
means Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement.
CID
means Conservation Information Document.
CZMA
means Coastal Zone Management Act.
DOCD
means Development Operations Coordination Document.
DPP
means Development and Production Plan.
DWOP
means Deepwater Operations Plan.
EIA
means Environmental Impact Analysis.
EP
means Exploration Plan.
IOP
means Integrated Operations Plan.
NPDES
means National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
NTL
means Notice to Lessees and Operators.
OCS
means Outer Continental Shelf.
(b) Terms used in this subpart are listed alphabetically below:
Amendment
means a change you make to an EP, DPP, or DOCD that is pending before BOEM for a decision (see §§ 550.232(d) and 550.267(d)).
Modification
means a change required by the Regional Supervisor to an EP, DPP, or DOCD (see § 550.233(b)(2) and § 550.270(b)(2)) that is pending before BOEM for a decision because the OCS plan is inconsistent with applicable requirements.
New or unusual technology
means equipment or procedures that:
(1) Have not been used previously or extensively in a BOEM OCS Region;
(2) Have not been used previously under the anticipated operating conditions; or
(3) Have operating characteristics that are outside the performance parameters established by this part.
Non-conventional production or completion technology
includes, but is not limited to, floating production systems, tension leg platforms, spars, floating production, storage, and offloading systems, guyed towers, compliant towers, subsea manifolds, and other subsea production components that rely on a remote site or host facility for utility and well control services.
Offshore vehicle
means a vehicle that is capable of being driven on ice.
Resubmitted OCS plan
means an EP, DPP, or DOCD that contains changes you make to an OCS plan that BOEM has disapproved (see §§ 550.234(b), 550.272(a), and 550.273(b)).
Revised OCS plan
means an EP, DPP, or DOCD that proposes changes to an approved OCS plan, such as those in the location of a well or platform, type of drilling unit, or location of the onshore support base (see § 550.283(a)).
Supplemental OCS plan
means an EP, DPP, or DOCD that proposes the addition to an approved OCS plan of an activity that requires approval of an application or permit (see § 550.283(b)).
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 46565, July 15, 2016]
§ 550.201
What plans and information must I submit before I conduct any activities on my lease or unit?
(a)
Plans and documents.
Before you conduct the activities on your lease or unit listed in the following table, you must submit, and BOEM must approve, the listed plans and documents. Your plans and documents may cover one or more leases or units.
You must submit a(n) . . .
Before you . . .
(1) Exploration Plan (EP),
Conduct any exploration activities on a lease or unit.
(2) Development and Production Plan (DPP),
Conduct any development and production activities on a lease or unit in any OCS area other than the Western Gulf of America.
(3) Development Operations Coordination Document (DOCD),
Conduct any development and production activities on a lease or unit in the Western GOA.
(4) BSEE approved Deepwater Operations Plan (DWOP),
Conduct post-drilling installation activities in any water depth associated with a development project that will involve the use of a non-conventional production or completion technology.
(5) Conservation Information Document (CID),
Commence production from development projects in water depths greater than 1,312 feet (400 meters).
(6) EP, DPP, or DOCD,
Conduct geological or geophysical (G
G) exploration or a development G
G activity (see definitions under § 550.105) on your lease or unit when:
(i) It will result in a physical penetration of the seabed greater than 500 feet (152 meters);
(ii) It will involve the use of explosives;
(iii) The Regional Director determines that it might have a significant adverse effect on the human, marine, or coastal environment; or
(iv) The Regional Supervisor, after reviewing a notice under § 550.209, determines that an EP, DPP, or DOCD is necessary.
(b)
Submitting additional information.
On a case-by-case basis, the Regional Supervisor may require you to submit additional information if the Regional Supervisor determines that it is necessary to evaluate your proposed plan or document.
(c)
Limiting information.
The Regional Director may limit the amount of information or analyses that you otherwise must provide in your proposed plan or document under this subpart when:
(1) Sufficient applicable information or analysis is readily available to BOEM;
(2) Other coastal or marine resources are not present or affected;
(3) Other factors such as technological advances affect information needs; or
(4) Information is not necessary or required for a State to determine consistency with their CZMA Plan.
(d)
Referencing.
In preparing your proposed plan or document, you may reference information and data discussed in other plans or documents you previously submitted or that are otherwise readily available to BOEM.
§ 550.202
What criteria must the Exploration Plan (EP), Development and Production Plan (DPP), or Development Operations Coordination Document (DOCD) meet?
Your EP, DPP, or DOCD must demonstrate that you have planned and are prepared to conduct the proposed activities in a manner that:
(a) Conforms to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act as amended (Act), applicable implementing regulations, lease provisions and stipulations, and other Federal laws;
(b) Is safe;
(c) Conforms to sound conservation practices and protects the rights of the lessor;
(d) Does not unreasonably interfere with other uses of the OCS, including those involved with National security or defense; and
(e) Does not cause undue or serious harm or damage to the human, marine, or coastal environment.
§ 550.203
Where can wells be located under an EP, DPP, or DOCD?
The Regional Supervisor reviews and approves proposed well location and spacing under an EP, DPP, or DOCD. In deciding whether to approve a proposed well location and spacing, the Regional Supervisor will consider factors including, but not limited to, the following:
(a) Protecting correlative rights;
(b) Protecting Federal royalty interests;
(c) Recovering optimum resources;
(d) Number of wells that can be economically drilled for proper reservoir management;
(e) Location of drilling units and platforms;
(f) Extent and thickness of the reservoir;
(g) Geologic and other reservoir characteristics;
(h) Minimizing environmental risk;
(i) Preventing unreasonable interference with other uses of the OCS; and
(j) Drilling of unnecessary wells.
§ 550.204
When must I submit my IOP for proposed Arctic exploratory drilling operations and what must the IOP include?
If you propose exploratory drilling activities on the Arctic OCS, you must submit an Integrated Operations Plan (IOP) to the Regional Supervisor at least 90 days prior to filing your EP. Your IOP must describe how your exploratory drilling program will be designed and conducted in an integrated manner that accounts for Arctic OCS conditions and include the following information:
(a) A description of how all vessels and equipment will be designed, built, and/or modified to account for Arctic OCS conditions;
(b) A schedule of your exploratory drilling program, including contractor work on critical components of your program;
(c) A description of your mobilization and demobilization operations, including tow plans that account for Arctic OCS conditions, as well as your general maintenance schedule for vessels and equipment;
(d) A description of your exploratory drilling program objectives and timelines for each objective, including general plans for abandonment of the well(s), such as:
(1) Contingency plans for temporary abandonment in the event of ice encroachment at the drill site;
(2) Plans for permanent abandonment; and
(3) Plans for temporary seasonal abandonment.
(e) A description of your weather and ice forecasting capabilities for all phases of the exploration program, including a description of how you would respond to and manage ice hazards and weather events;
(f) A description of work to be performed by contractors supporting your exploration drilling program (including mobilization and demobilization), including:
(1) How such work will be designed or modified to account for Arctic OCS conditions; and
(2) Your concepts for contractor management, oversight, and risk management.
(g) A description of how you will ensure operational safety while working in Arctic OCS conditions, including but not limited to:
(1) The safety principles that you intend to apply to yourself and your contractors;
(2) The accountability structure within your organization for implementing such principles;
(3) How you will communicate such principles to your employees and contractors; and
(4) How you will determine successful implementation of such principles.
(h) Information regarding your preparations and plans for staging of oil spill response assets;
(i) A description of your efforts to minimize impacts of your exploratory drilling operations on local community infrastructure, including but not limited to housing, energy supplies, and services; and
(j) A description of whether and to what extent your project will rely on local community workforce and spill cleanup response capacity.
[81 FR 46565, July 15, 2016]
§ 550.205
[Reserved]
§ 550.206
How do I submit the IOP, EP, DPP, or DOCD?
(a)
Number of copies.
When you submit an IOP, EP, DPP, or DOCD to BOEM, you must provide:
(1) Four copies that contain all required information (proprietary copies);
(2) Eight copies for public distribution (public information copies) that omit information that you assert is exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552) and the implementing regulations (43 CFR part 2); and
(3) Any additional copies that may be necessary to facilitate review of the IOP, EP, DPP, or DOCD by certain affected States and other reviewing entities.
(b)
Electronic submission.
You may submit part or all of your IOP, EP, DPP, or DOCD and its accompanying information electronically. If you prefer to submit your IOP, EP, DPP, or DOCD electronically, ask the Regional Supervisor for further guidance.
(c)
Withdrawal after submission.
You may withdraw your proposed IOP, EP, DPP, or DOCD at any time for any reason. Notify the appropriate BOEM OCS Region if you do.
[81 FR 46565, July 15, 2016]

# Ancillary Activities
§ 550.207
What ancillary activities may I conduct?
Before or after you submit an EP, DPP, or DOCD to BOEM, you may elect, the regulations in this part may require, or the Regional Supervisor may direct you to conduct ancillary activities. Ancillary activities include:
(a) Geological and geophysical (G
G) explorations and development G
G activities;
(b) Geological and high-resolution geophysical, geotechnical, archaeological, biological, physical oceanographic, meteorological, socioeconomic, or other surveys; or
(c) Studies that model potential oil and hazardous substance spills, drilling muds and cuttings discharges, projected air emissions, or potential hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S) releases.
§ 550.208
If I conduct ancillary activities, what notices must I provide?
At least 30 calendar days before you conduct any G
G exploration or development G
G activity (see § 550.207(a)), you must notify the Regional Supervisor in writing.
(a) When you prepare the notice, you must:
(1) Sign and date the notice;
(2) Provide the names of the vessel, its operator, and the person(s) in charge; the specific type(s) of operations you will conduct; and the instrumentation/techniques and vessel navigation system you will use;
(3) Provide expected start and completion dates and the location of the activity; and
(4) Describe the potential adverse environmental effects of the proposed activity and any mitigation to eliminate or minimize these effects on the marine, coastal, and human environment.
(b) The Regional Supervisor may require you to:
(1) Give written notice to BOEM at least 15 calendar days before you conduct any other ancillary activity (see § 550.207(b) and (c)) in addition to those listed in § 550.207(a); and
(2) Notify other users of the OCS before you conduct any ancillary activity.
§ 550.209
What is the BOEM review process for the notice?
The Regional Supervisor will review any notice required under § 550.208(a) and (b)(1) to ensure that your ancillary activity complies with the performance standards listed in § 550.202(a), (b), (d), and (e). The Regional Supervisor may notify you that your ancillary activity does not comply with those standards. In such a case, the Regional Supervisor will require you to submit an EP, DPP, or DOCD and you may not start your ancillary activity until the Regional Supervisor approves the EP, DPP, or DOCD.
§ 550.210
If I conduct ancillary activities, what reporting and data/information retention requirements must I satisfy?
(a)
Reporting.
The Regional Supervisor may require you to prepare and submit reports that summarize and analyze data or information obtained or derived from your ancillary activities. When applicable, BOEM will protect and disclose the data and information in these reports in accordance with § 550.197(b).
(b)
Data and information retention.
You must retain copies of all original data and information, including navigation data, obtained or derived from your G
G explorations and development G
G activities (see § 550.207(a)), including any such data and information you obtained from previous leaseholders or unit operators. You must submit such data and information to BOEM for inspection and possible retention upon request at any time before lease or unit termination. When applicable, BOEM will protect and disclose such submitted data and information in accordance with § 550.197(b).

# Contents of Exploration Plans (EP)
§ 550.211
What must the EP include?
Your EP must include the following:
(a)
Description, objectives, and schedule.
A description, discussion of the objectives, and tentative schedule (from start to completion) of the exploration activities that you propose to undertake. Examples of exploration activities include exploration drilling, well test flaring, installing a well protection structure, and temporary well abandonment.
(b)
Location.
A map showing the surface location and water depth of each proposed well and the locations of all associated drilling unit anchors.
(c)
Drilling unit.
A description of the drilling unit and associated equipment you will use to conduct your proposed exploration activities, including a brief description of its important safety and pollution prevention features, and a table indicating the type and the estimated maximum quantity of fuels, oil, and lubricants that will be stored on the facility (see definition of “facility” under § 550.105(3)).
(d)
Service fee.
You must include payment of the service fee listed in § 550.125.
§ 550.212
What information must accompany the EP?
The following information must accompany your EP:
(a) General information required by § 550.213;
(b) Geological and geophysical (G
G) information required by § 550.214;
(c) Hydrogen sulfide information required by § 550.215;
(d) Biological, physical, and socioeconomic information required by § 550.216;
(e) Solid and liquid wastes and discharges information and cooling water intake information required by § 550.217;
(f) Air emissions information required by § 550.218;
(g) Oil and hazardous substance spills information required by § 550.219;
(h) Alaska planning information required by § 550.220;
(i) Environmental monitoring information required by § 550.221;
(j) Lease stipulations information required by § 550.222;
(k) Mitigation measures information required by § 550.223;
(l) Support vessels and aircraft information required by § 550.224;
(m) Onshore support facilities information required by § 550.225;
(n) Coastal zone management information required by § 550.226;
(o) Environmental impact analysis information required by § 550.227; and
(p) Administrative information required by § 550.228.
§ 550.213
What general information must accompany the EP?
The following general information must accompany your EP:
(a)
Applications and permits.
A listing, including filing or approval status, of the Federal, State, and local application approvals or permits you must obtain to conduct your proposed exploration activities.
(b)
Drilling fluids.
A table showing the projected amount, discharge rate, and chemical constituents for each type (
i.e.,
water-based, oil-based, synthetic-based) of drilling fluid you plan to use to drill your proposed exploration wells.
(c)
Chemical products.
A table showing the name and brief description, quantities to be stored, storage method, and rates of usage of the chemical products you will use to conduct your proposed exploration activities. List only those chemical products you will store or use in quantities greater than the amounts defined as Reportable Quantities in 40 CFR part 302, or amounts specified by the Regional Supervisor.
(d)
New or unusual technology.
A description and discussion of any new or unusual technology (see definition under § 550.200) you will use to carry out your proposed exploration activities. In the public information copies of your EP, you may exclude any proprietary information from this description. In that case, include a brief discussion of the general subject matter of the omitted information. If you will not use any new or unusual technology to carry out your proposed exploration activities, include a statement so indicating.
(e)
Bonds, oil spill financial responsibility, and well control statements.
Statements attesting that:
(1) The activities and facilities proposed in your EP are or will be covered
by an appropriate bond under 30 CFR part 556, subpart I;
(2) You have demonstrated or will demonstrate oil spill financial responsibility for facilities proposed in your EP according to 30 CFR part 553; and
(3) You have or will have the financial capability to drill a relief well and conduct other emergency well control operations.
(f)
Suspensions of operations.
A brief discussion of any suspensions of operations that you anticipate may be necessary in the course of conducting your activities under the EP.
(g)
Blowout scenario.
A scenario for the potential blowout of the proposed well in your EP that you expect will have the highest volume of liquid hydrocarbons. Include the estimated flow rate, total volume, and maximum duration of the potential blowout. Also, discuss the potential for the well to bridge over, the likelihood for surface intervention to stop the blowout, the availability of a rig to drill a relief well, and rig package constraints. Estimate the time it would take to drill a relief well.
(h)
Contact.
The name, address (e-mail address, if available), and telephone number of the person with whom the Regional Supervisor and any affected State(s) can communicate about your EP.
§ 550.214
What geological and geophysical (G
G) information must accompany the EP?
The following G
G information must accompany your EP:
(a)
Geological description.
A geological description of the prospect(s).
(b)
Structure contour maps.
Current structure contour maps (depth-based, expressed in feet subsea) drawn on the top of each prospective hydrocarbon-bearing reservoir showing the locations of proposed wells.
(c)
Two-dimensional (2-D) or three-dimensional (3-D) seismic lines.
Copies of migrated and annotated 2-D or 3-D seismic lines (with depth scale) intersecting at or near your proposed well locations. You are not required to conduct both 2-D and 3-D seismic surveys if you choose to conduct only one type of survey. If you have conducted both types of surveys, the Regional Supervisor may instruct you to submit the results of both surveys. You must interpret and display this information. Because of its volume, provide this information as an enclosure to only one proprietary copy of your EP.
(d)
Geological cross-sections.
Interpreted geological cross-sections showing the location and depth of each proposed well.
(e)
Shallow hazards report.
A shallow hazards report based on information obtained from a high-resolution geophysical survey, or a reference to such report if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.
(f)
Shallow hazards assessment.
For each proposed well, an assessment of any seafloor and subsurface geological and manmade features and conditions that may adversely affect your proposed drilling operations.
(g)
High-resolution seismic lines.
A copy of the high-resolution survey line closest to each of your proposed well locations. Because of its volume, provide this information as an enclosure to only one proprietary copy of your EP. You are not required to provide this information if the surface location of your proposed well has been approved in a previously submitted EP, DPP, or DOCD.
(h)
Stratigraphic column.
A generalized biostratigraphic/lithostratigraphic column from the surface to the total depth of the prospect.
(i)
Time-versus-depth chart.
A seismic travel time-versus-depth chart based on the appropriate velocity analysis in the area of interpretation and specifying the geodetic datum.
(j)
Geochemical information.
A copy of any geochemical reports you used or generated.
(k)
Future G
G activities.
A brief description of the types of G
G explorations and development G
G activities you may conduct for lease or unit purposes after your EP is approved.
§ 550.215
What hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S) information must accompany the EP?
The following H
2
S information, as applicable, must accompany your EP:
(a)
Concentration.
The estimated concentration of any H
2
S you might encounter while you conduct your proposed exploration activities.
(b)
Classification.
Under 30 CFR 250.490(c), a request that the BSEE Regional Supervisor classify the area of your proposed exploration activities as either H
2
S absent, H
2
S present, or H
2
S unknown. Provide sufficient information to justify your request.
(c)
H
2
S Contingency Plan.
If you ask the Regional Supervisor to classify the area of your proposed exploration activities as either H
2
S present or H
2
S unknown, an H
2
S Contingency Plan prepared under 30 CFR 250.490(f), or a reference to an approved or submitted H
2
S Contingency Plan that covers the proposed exploration activities.
(d)
Modeling report.
If you modeled a potential H
2
S release when developing your EP, modeling report or the modeling results, or a reference to such report or results if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.
(1) The analysis in the modeling report must be specific to the particular site of your proposed exploration activities, and must consider any nearby human-occupied OCS facilities, shipping lanes, fishery areas, and other points where humans may be subject to potential exposure from an H
2
S release from your proposed exploration activities.
(2) If any H
2
S emissions are projected to affect an onshore location in concentrations greater than 10 parts per million, the modeling analysis must be consistent with the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) risk management plan methodologies outlined in 40 CFR part 68.
§ 550.216
What biological, physical, and socioeconomic information must accompany the EP?
If you obtain the following information in developing your EP, or if the Regional Supervisor requires you to obtain it, you must include a report, or the information obtained, or a reference to such a report or information if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor, as accompanying information:
(a)
Biological environment reports.
Site-specific information on chemosynthetic communities, federally listed threatened or endangered species, marine mammals protected under the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA), sensitive underwater features, marine sanctuaries, critical habitat designated under the Endangered Species Act (ESA), or other areas of biological concern.
(b)
Physical environment reports.
Site-specific meteorological, physical oceanographic, geotechnical reports, or archaeological reports (if required under § 550.194).
(c)
Socioeconomic study reports.
Socioeconomic information regarding your proposed exploration activities.
§ 550.217
What solid and liquid wastes and discharges information and cooling water intake information must accompany the EP?
The following solid and liquid wastes and discharges information and cooling water intake information must accompany your EP:
(a)
Projected wastes.
A table providing the name, brief description, projected quantity, and composition of solid and liquid wastes (such as spent drilling fluids, drill cuttings, trash, sanitary and domestic wastes, and chemical product wastes) likely to be generated by your proposed exploration activities. Describe:
(1) The methods you used for determining this information; and
(2) Your plans for treating, storing, and downhole disposal of these wastes at your drilling location(s).
(b)
Projected ocean discharges.
If any of your solid and liquid wastes will be discharged overboard, or are planned discharges from manmade islands:
(1) A table showing the name, projected amount, and rate of discharge for each waste type; and
(2) A description of the discharge method (such as shunting through a downpipe,
etc.
) you will use.
(c)
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit.
(1) A discussion of how you will comply with the provisions of the applicable general NPDES permit that covers your proposed exploration activities; or
(2) A copy of your application for an individual NPDES permit. Briefly describe the major discharges and methods you will use for compliance.
(d)
Modeling report.
The modeling report or the modeling results (if you
modeled the discharges of your projected solid or liquid wastes when developing your EP), or a reference to such report or results if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.
(e)
Projected cooling water intake.
A table for each cooling water intake structure likely to be used by your proposed exploration activities that includes a brief description of the cooling water intake structure, daily water intake rate, water intake through screen velocity, percentage of water intake used for cooling water, mitigation measures for reducing impingement and entrainment of aquatic organisms, and biofouling prevention measures.
§ 550.218
What air emissions information must accompany the EP?
The following air emissions information, as applicable, must accompany your EP:
(a)
Projected emissions.
Tables showing the projected emissions of criteria air pollutants, volatile organic compounds (VOC), and total suspended particulates (TSP) generated by your proposed exploration activities.
(1) For each source on or associated with the drilling unit (including well test flaring and well protection structure installation), you must list:
(i) The projected peak hourly emissions;
(ii) The total annual emissions in tons per year;
(iii) Emissions over the duration of the proposed exploration activities;
(iv) The frequency and duration of emissions; and
(v) The total of all emissions listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(2) You must provide the basis for all calculations, including engine size and rating, and applicable operational information.
(3) You must base the projected emissions on the maximum rated capacity of the equipment on the proposed drilling unit under its physical and operational design.
(4) If the specific drilling unit has not yet been determined, you must use the maximum emission estimates for the type of drilling unit you will use.
(b)
Emission reduction measures.
A description of any proposed emission reduction measures, including the affected source(s), the emission reduction control technologies or procedures, the quantity of reductions to be achieved, and any monitoring system you propose to use to measure emissions.
(c)
Processes, equipment, fuels, and combustibles.
A description of processes, processing equipment, combustion equipment, fuels, and storage units. You must include the characteristics and the frequency, duration, and maximum burn rate of any well test fluids to be burned.
(d)
Distance to shore.
Identification of the distance of your drilling unit from the mean high water mark (mean higher high water mark on the Pacific coast) of the adjacent State.
(e)
Non-exempt drilling units.
A description of how you will comply with § 550.303 when the projected emissions reported under paragraph (a) of this section are greater than the respective emission exemption thresholds (EET) calculated using the formulas in § 550.303(d). When BOEM requires air quality dispersion modeling, you must use the guidelines in appendix W of 40 CFR part 51 for dispersion modeling with a model approved by the Director. You must also submit the best available meteorological information and data consistent with the model(s) used.
(f)
Modeling report.
A modeling report or the modeling results (if § 550.303 requires you to use an approved air quality model to model projected air emissions in developing your EP), or a reference to such a report or results if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 34936, June 5, 2020]
§ 550.219
What oil and hazardous substance spills information must accompany the EP?
The following information regarding potential spills of oil (see definition under 30 CFR 254.6) and hazardous substances (see definition under 40 CFR part 116) as applicable, must accompany your EP:
(a)
Oil spill response planning.
The material required under paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section:
(1) An Oil Spill Response Plan (OSRP) for the facilities you will use to conduct your exploration activities prepared according to the requirements of 30 CFR part 254, subpart B; or
(2) Reference to your approved regional OSRP (see 30 CFR 254.3) to include:
(i) A discussion of your regional OSRP;
(ii) The location of your primary oil spill equipment base and staging area;
(iii) The name(s) of your oil spill removal organization(s) for both equipment and personnel;
(iv) The calculated volume of your worst case discharge scenario (see 30 CFR 254.26(a)), and a comparison of the appropriate worst case discharge scenario in your approved regional OSRP with the worst case discharge scenario that could result from your proposed exploration activities; and
(v) A description of the worst case discharge scenario that could result from your proposed exploration activities (see 30 CFR 254.26(b), (c), (d), and (e)).
(b)
Modeling report.
If you model a potential oil or hazardous substance spill in developing your EP, a modeling report or the modeling results, or a reference to such report or results if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.
§ 550.220
If I propose activities in the Alaska OCS Region, what planning information must accompany the EP?
If you propose exploration activities in the Alaska OCS Region, the following planning information must accompany your EP:
(a)
Emergency plans.
A description of your emergency plans to respond to a fire, explosion, personnel evacuation, or loss of well control, as well as a loss or disablement of a drilling unit, and loss of or damage to a support vessel, offshore vehicle, or aircraft.
(b)
Critical operations and curtailment procedures.
Critical operations and curtailment procedures for your exploration activities. The procedures must identify ice conditions, weather, and other constraints under which the exploration activities will either be curtailed or not proceed.
(c) If you propose exploration activities on the Arctic OCS, the following planning information must also accompany your EP:
(1)
Suitability for Arctic OCS conditions.
A description of how your exploratory drilling activities will be designed and conducted in a manner that accounts for Arctic OCS conditions and how such activities will be managed and overseen as an integrated endeavor.
(2)
Ice and weather management.
A description of your weather and ice forecasting and management plans for all phases of your exploratory drilling activities, including:
(i) A description of how you will respond to and manage ice hazards and weather events;
(ii) Your ice and weather alert procedures;
(iii) Your procedures and thresholds for activating your ice and weather management system(s); and
(iv) Confirmation that you will operate ice and weather management and alert systems continuously throughout the planned operations, including mobilization and demobilization operations to and from the Arctic OCS.
(3)
Source control and containment equipment capabilities.
A general description of how you will comply with § 250.471 of this title.
(4)
Deployment of a relief well rig.
A general description of how you will comply with § 250.472 of this title, including a description of the relief well rig, the anticipated staging area of the relief well rig, an estimate of the time it would take for the relief well rig to arrive at the site of a loss of well control, how you would drill a relief well if necessary, and the approximate timeframe to complete relief well operations.
(5)
Resource-sharing.
Any agreements you have with third parties for the sharing of assets or the provision of mutual aid in the event of an oil spill or other emergency.
(6)
Anticipated end of seasonal operations dates.
Your projected end of season dates, and the information used to identify those dates, for:
(i) The completion of on-site operations, which is contingent upon your capability in terms of equipment and procedures to manage and mitigate risks associated with Arctic OCS conditions; and
(ii) The termination of drilling operations consistent with the relief rig planning requirements under § 250.472 of this title and with your estimated timeframe under paragraph (c)(4) of this section for completion of relief well operations.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 46565, July 15, 2016]
§ 550.221
What environmental monitoring information must accompany the EP?
The following environmental monitoring information, as applicable, must accompany your EP:
(a)
Monitoring systems.
A description of any existing and planned monitoring systems that are measuring, or will measure, environmental conditions or will provide project-specific data or information on the impacts of your exploration activities.
(b)
Incidental takes.
If there is reason to believe that protected species may be incidentally taken by planned exploration activities, you must describe how you will monitor for incidental take of:
(1) Threatened and endangered species listed under the ESA; and
(2) Marine mammals, as appropriate, if you have not already received authorization for incidental take as may be necessary under the MMPA.
(c)
Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary (FGBNMS).
If you propose to conduct exploration activities within the protective zones of the FGBNMS, a description of your provisions for monitoring the impacts of an oil spill on the environmentally sensitive resources at the FGBNMS.
§ 550.222
What lease stipulations information must accompany the EP?
A description of the measures you took, or will take, to satisfy the conditions of lease stipulations related to your proposed exploration activities must accompany your EP.
§ 550.223
What mitigation measures information must accompany the EP?
(a) If you propose to use any measures beyond those required by the regulations in this part to minimize or mitigate environmental impacts from your proposed exploration activities, a description of the measures you will use must accompany your EP.
(b) If there is reason to believe that protected species may be incidentally taken by planned exploration activities, you must include mitigation measures designed to avoid or minimize the incidental take of:
(1) Threatened and endangered species listed under the ESA; and
(2) Marine mammals, as appropriate, if you have not already received authorization for incidental take as may be necessary under the MMPA.
§ 550.224
What information on support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use must accompany the EP?
The following information on the support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use must accompany your EP:
(a)
General.
A description of the crew boats, supply boats, anchor handling vessels, tug boats, barges, ice management vessels, other vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use to support your exploration activities. The description of vessels and offshore vehicles must estimate the storage capacity of their fuel tanks and the frequency of their visits to your drilling unit.
(b)
Air emissions.
A table showing the source, composition, frequency, and duration of the air emissions likely to be generated by the support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use that will operate within 25 miles of your drilling unit.
(c)
Drilling fluids and chemical products transportation.
A description of the transportation method and quantities of drilling fluids and chemical products (see § 550.213(b) and (c)) you will transport from the onshore support facilities you will use to your drilling unit.
(d)
Solid and liquid wastes transportation.
A description of the transportation method and a brief description
of the composition, quantities, and destination(s) of solid and liquid wastes (see § 550.217(a)) you will transport from your drilling unit.
(e)
Vicinity map.
A map showing the location of your proposed exploration activities relative to the shoreline. The map must depict the primary route(s) the support vessels and aircraft will use when traveling between the onshore support facilities you will use and your drilling unit.
§ 550.225
What information on the onshore support facilities you will use must accompany the EP?
The following information on the onshore support facilities you will use must accompany your EP:
(a)
General.
A description of the onshore facilities you will use to provide supply and service support for your proposed exploration activities (e.g., service bases and mud company docks).
(1) Indicate whether the onshore support facilities are existing, to be constructed, or to be expanded.
(2) If the onshore support facilities are, or will be, located in areas not adjacent to the Western GOA, provide a timetable for acquiring lands (including rights-of-way and easements) and constructing or expanding the facilities. Describe any State or Federal permits or approvals (dredging, filling,
etc.
) that would be required for constructing or expanding them.
(b)
Air emissions.
A description of the source, composition, frequency, and duration of the air emissions (attributable to your proposed exploration activities) likely to be generated by the onshore support facilities you will use.
(c)
Unusual solid and liquid wastes.
A description of the quantity, composition, and method of disposal of any unusual solid and liquid wastes (attributable to your proposed exploration activities) likely to be generated by the onshore support facilities you will use. Unusual wastes are those wastes not specifically addressed in the relevant National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit.
(d)
Waste disposal.
A description of the onshore facilities you will use to store and dispose of solid and liquid wastes generated by your proposed exploration activities (see § 550.217) and the types and quantities of such wastes.
§ 550.226
What Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) information must accompany the EP?
The following CZMA information must accompany your EP:
(a)
Consistency certification.
A copy of your consistency certification under section 307(c)(3)(B) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)) and 15 CFR 930.76(d) stating that the proposed exploration activities described in detail in this EP comply with (name of State(s)) approved coastal management program(s) and will be conducted in a manner that is consistent with such program(s); and
(b)
Other information.
“Information” as required by 15 CFR 930.76(a) and 15 CFR 930.58(a)(2)) and “Analysis” as required by 15 CFR 930.58(a)(3).
§ 550.227
What environmental impact analysis (EIA) information must accompany the EP?
The following EIA information must accompany your EP:
(a)
General requirements.
Your EIA must:
(1) Assess the potential environmental impacts of your proposed exploration activities;
(2) Be project specific; and
(3) Be as detailed as necessary to assist the Regional Supervisor in complying with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
) and other relevant Federal laws such as the ESA and the MMPA.
(b)
Resources, conditions, and activities.
Your EIA must describe those resources, conditions, and activities listed below that could be affected by your proposed exploration activities, or that could affect the construction and operation of facilities or structures, or the activities proposed in your EP.
(1) Meteorology, oceanography, geology, and shallow geological or manmade hazards;
(2) Air and water quality;
(3) Benthic communities, marine mammals, sea turtles, coastal and marine birds, fish and shellfish, and plant life;
(4) Threatened or endangered species and their critical habitat as defined by the Endangered Species Act of 1973;
(5) Sensitive biological resources or habitats such as essential fish habitat, refuges, preserves, special management areas identified in coastal management programs, sanctuaries, rookeries, and calving grounds;
(6) Archaeological resources;
(7) Socioeconomic resources including employment, existing offshore and coastal infrastructure (including major sources of supplies, services, energy, and water), land use, subsistence resources and harvest practices, recreation, recreational and commercial fishing (including typical fishing seasons, location, and type), minority and lower income groups, and coastal zone management programs;
(8) Coastal and marine uses such as military activities, shipping, and mineral exploration or development; and
(9) Other resources, conditions, and activities identified by the Regional Supervisor.
(c)
Environmental impacts.
Your EIA must:
(1) Analyze the potential direct and indirect impacts (including those from accidents, cooling water intake structures, and those identified in relevant ESA biological opinions such as, but not limited to, those from noise, vessel collisions, and marine trash and debris) that your proposed exploration activities will have on the identified resources, conditions, and activities;
(2) Analyze any potential cumulative impacts from other activities to those identified resources, conditions, and activities potentially impacted by your proposed exploration activities;
(3) Describe the type, severity, and duration of these potential impacts and their biological, physical, and other consequences and implications;
(4) Describe potential measures to minimize or mitigate these potential impacts; and
(5) Summarize the information you incorporate by reference.
(d)
Consultation.
Your EIA must include a list of agencies and persons with whom you consulted, or with whom you will be consulting, regarding potential impacts associated with your proposed exploration activities.
(e)
References cited.
Your EIA must include a list of the references that you cite in the EIA.
§ 550.228
What administrative information must accompany the EP?
The following administrative information must accompany your EP:
(a)
Exempted information description (public information copies only).
A description of the general subject matter of the proprietary information that is included in the proprietary copies of your EP or its accompanying information.
(b)
Bibliography.
(1) If you reference a previously submitted EP, DPP, DOCD, study report, survey report, or other material in your EP or its accompanying information, a list of the referenced material; and
(2) The location(s) where the Regional Supervisor can inspect the cited referenced material if you have not submitted it.

# Review and Decision Process for the EP
§ 550.231
After receiving the EP, what will BOEM do?
(a)
Determine whether deemed submitted.
Within 15 working days after receiving your proposed EP and its accompanying information, the Regional Supervisor will review your submission and deem your EP submitted if:
(1) The submitted information, including the information that must accompany the EP (refer to the list in § 550.212), fulfills requirements and is sufficiently accurate;
(2) You have provided all needed additional information (see § 550.201(b)); and
(3) You have provided the required number of copies (see § 550.206(a)).
(b)
Identify problems and deficiencies.
If the Regional Supervisor determines that you have not met one or more of the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section, the Regional Supervisor will notify you of the problem or deficiency within 15 working days after the Regional Supervisor receives your EP and its accompanying information. The Regional Supervisor will not deem your EP submitted until you have corrected
all problems or deficiencies identified in the notice.
(c)
Deemed submitted notification.
The Regional Supervisor will notify you when the EP is deemed submitted.
§ 550.232
What actions will BOEM take after the EP is deemed submitted?
(a)
State and CZMA consistency reviews.
Within 2 working days after deeming your EP submitted under § 550.231, the Regional Supervisor will use receipted mail or alternative method to send a public information copy of the EP and its accompanying information to the following:
(1)
The Governor of each affected State.
The Governor has 21 calendar days after receiving your deemed-submitted EP to submit comments. The Regional Supervisor will not consider comments received after the deadline.
(2)
The CZMA agency of each affected State.
The CZMA consistency review period under section 307(c)(3)(B)(ii) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(ii)) and 15 CFR 930.78 begins when the State's CZMA agency receives a copy of your deemed-submitted EP, consistency certification, and required necessary data and information (see 15 CFR 930.77(a)(1)).
(b)
BOEM compliance review.
The Regional Supervisor will review the exploration activities described in your proposed EP to ensure that they conform to the performance standards in § 550.202.
(c)
BOEM environmental impact evaluation.
The Regional Supervisor will evaluate the environmental impacts of the activities described in your proposed EP and prepare environmental documentation under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
) and the implementing regulations (40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508).
(d)
Amendments.
During the review of your proposed EP, the Regional Supervisor may require you, or you may elect, to change your EP. If you elect to amend your EP, the Regional Supervisor may determine that your EP, as amended, is subject to the requirements of § 550.231.
§ 550.233
What decisions will BOEM make on the EP and within what timeframe?
(a)
Timeframe.
The Regional Supervisor will take one of the actions shown in the table in paragraph (b) of this section within 30 calendar days after the Regional Supervisor deems your EP submitted under § 550.231, or receives the last amendment to your proposed EP, whichever occurs later.
(b)
BOEM decision.
By the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section, the Regional Supervisor will take one of the following actions:
The regional
supervisor will . . .
If . . .
And then . . .
(1) Approve your EP,
It complies with all applicable requirements,
The Regional Supervisor will notify you in writing of the decision and may require you to meet certain conditions, including those to provide monitoring information.
(2) Require you to modify your proposed EP,
The Regional Supervisor finds that it is inconsistent with the lease, the Act, the regulations prescribed under the Act, or other Federal laws,
The Regional Supervisor will notify you in writing of the decision and describe the modifications you must make to your proposed EP to ensure it complies with all applicable requirements.
(3) Disapprove your EP,
Your proposed activities would probably cause serious harm or damage to life (including fish or other aquatic life); property; any mineral (in areas leased or not leased); the National security or defense; or the marine, coastal, or human environment; and you cannot modify your proposed activities to avoid such condition(s),
(i) The Regional Supervisor will notify you in writing of the decision and describe the reason(s) for disapproving your EP.
(ii) BOEM may cancel your lease and compensate you under 43 U.S.C. 1334(a)(2)(C) and the implementing regulations in §§ 550.182, 550.184, and 550.185 and 30 CFR 556.77.
§ 550.234
How do I submit a modified EP or resubmit a disapproved EP, and when will BOEM make a decision?
(a)
Modified EP.
If the Regional Supervisor requires you to modify your proposed EP under § 550.233(b)(2), you must submit the modification(s) to the Regional Supervisor in the same manner as for a new EP. You need submit only information related to the proposed modification(s).
(b)
Resubmitted EP.
If the Regional Supervisor disapproves your EP under § 550.233(b)(3), you may resubmit the disapproved EP if there is a change in the conditions that were the basis of its disapproval.
(c)
BOEM review and timeframe.
The Regional Supervisor will use the performance standards in § 550.202 to either approve, require you to further modify, or disapprove your modified or resubmitted EP. The Regional Supervisor will make a decision within 30 calendar days after the Regional Supervisor deems your modified or resubmitted EP to be submitted, or receives the last amendment to your modified or resubmitted EP, whichever occurs later.
§ 550.235
If a State objects to the EP's coastal zone consistency certification, what can I do?
If an affected State objects to the coastal zone consistency certification accompanying your proposed EP within the timeframe prescribed in § 550.233(a) or § 550.234(c), you may do one of the following:
(a)
Amend your EP.
Amend your EP to accommodate the State's objection and submit the amendment to the Regional Supervisor for approval. The amendment needs to only address information related to the State's objection.
(b)
Appeal.
Appeal the State's objection to the Secretary of Commerce using the procedures in 15 CFR part 930, subpart H. The Secretary of Commerce will either:
(1) Grant your appeal by finding, under section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(iii)), that each activity described in detail in your EP is consistent with the objectives of the CZMA, or is otherwise necessary in the interest of National security; or
(2) Deny your appeal, in which case you may amend your EP as described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Withdraw your EP.
Withdraw your EP if you decide not to conduct your proposed exploration activities.

# Contents of Development and Production Plans (DPP) and Development Operations Coordination Documents (DOCD)
§ 550.241
What must the DPP or DOCD include?
Your DPP or DOCD must include the following:
(a)
Description, objectives, and schedule.
A description, discussion of the objectives, and tentative schedule (from start to completion) of the development and production activities you propose to undertake. Examples of development and production activities include:
(1) Development drilling;
(2) Well test flaring;
(3) Installation of production platforms, satellite structures, subsea wellheads and manifolds, and lease term pipelines (see definition at § 550.105); and
(4) Installation of production facilities and conduct of production operations.
(b)
Location.
The location and water depth of each of your proposed wells and production facilities. Include a map showing the surface and bottom-hole location and water depth of each proposed well, the surface location of each production facility, and the locations of all associated drilling unit and construction barge anchors.
(c)
Drilling unit.
A description of the drilling unit and associated equipment you will use to conduct your proposed development drilling activities. Include a brief description of its important safety and pollution prevention features, and a table indicating the type and the estimated maximum quantity of fuels and oil that will be stored on the facility (see definition of “facility (3)” under § 550.105).
(d)
Production facilities.
A description of the production platforms, satellite
structures, subsea wellheads and manifolds, lease term pipelines (see definition at § 550.105), production facilities, umbilicals, and other facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities. Include a brief description of their important safety and pollution prevention features, and a table indicating the type and the estimated maximum quantity of fuels and oil that will be stored on the facility (see definition of “facility (3)” under § 550.105).
(e)
Service fee.
You must include payment of the service fee listed in § 550.125.
§ 550.242
What information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following information must accompany your DPP or DOCD.
(a) General information required by § 550.243;
(b) G
G information required by § 550.244;
(c) Hydrogen sulfide information required by § 550.245;
(d) Mineral resource conservation information required by § 550.246;
(e) Biological, physical, and socioeconomic information required by § 550.247;
(f) Solid and liquid wastes and discharges information and cooling water intake information required by § 550.248;
(g) Air emissions information required by § 550.249;
(h) Oil and hazardous substance spills information required by § 550.250;
(i) Alaska planning information required by § 550.251;
(j) Environmental monitoring information required by § 550.252;
(k) Lease stipulations information required by § 550.253;
(l) Mitigation measures information required by § 550.254;
(m) Decommissioning information required by § 550.255;
(n) Related facilities and operations information required by § 550.256;
(o) Support vessels and aircraft information required by § 550.257;
(p) Onshore support facilities information required by § 550.258;
(q) Sulphur operations information required by § 550.259;
(r) Coastal zone management information required by § 550.260;
(s) Environmental impact analysis information required by § 550.261; and
(t) Administrative information required by § 550.262.
§ 550.243
What general information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following general information must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
Applications and permits.
A listing, including filing or approval status, of the Federal, State, and local application approvals or permits you must obtain to carry out your proposed development and production activities.
(b)
Drilling fluids.
A table showing the projected amount, discharge rate, and chemical constituents for each type (
i.e.,
water based, oil based, synthetic based) of drilling fluid you plan to use to drill your proposed development wells.
(c)
Production.
The following production information:
(1) Estimates of the average and peak rates of production for each type of production and the life of the reservoir(s) you intend to produce; and
(2) The chemical and physical characteristics of the produced oil (see definition under 30 CFR 254.6) that you will handle or store at the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities.
(d)
Chemical products.
A table showing the name and brief description, quantities to be stored, storage method, and rates of usage of the chemical products you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities. You need list only those chemical products you will store or use in quantities greater than the amounts defined as Reportable Quantities in 40 CFR part 302, or amounts specified by the Regional Supervisor.
(e)
New or unusual technology.
A description and discussion of any new or unusual technology (see definition under § 550.200) you will use to carry out your proposed development and production activities. In the public information copies of your DPP or
DOCD, you may exclude any proprietary information from this description. In that case, include a brief discussion of the general subject matter of the omitted information. If you will not use any new or unusual technology to carry out your proposed development and production activities, include a statement so indicating.
(f)
Bonds, oil spill financial responsibility, and well control statements.
Statements attesting that:
(1) The activities and facilities proposed in your DPP or DOCD are or will be covered by an appropriate bond under 30 CFR part 556, subpart I;
(2) You have demonstrated or will demonstrate oil spill financial responsibility for facilities proposed in your DPP or DOCD, according to 30 CFR part 553; and
(3) You have or will have the financial capability to drill a relief well and conduct other emergency well control operations.
(g)
Suspensions of production or operations.
A brief discussion of any suspensions of production or suspensions of operations that you anticipate may be necessary in the course of conducting your activities under the DPP or DOCD.
(h)
Blowout scenario.
A scenario for a potential blowout of the proposed well in your DPP or DOCD that you expect will have the highest volume of liquid hydrocarbons. Include the estimated flow rate, total volume, and maximum duration of the potential blowout. Also, discuss the potential for the well to bridge over, the likelihood for surface intervention to stop the blowout, the availability of a rig to drill a relief well, and rig package constraints. Estimate the time it would take to drill a relief well.
(i)
Contact.
The name, mailing address, (e-mail address if available), and telephone number of the person with whom the Regional Supervisor and the affected State(s) can communicate about your DPP or DOCD.
§ 550.244
What geological and geophysical (G
G) information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following G
G information must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
Geological description.
A geological description of the prospect(s).
(b)
Structure contour maps.
Current structure contour maps (depth-based, expressed in feet subsea) showing depths of expected productive formations and the locations of proposed wells.
(c)
Two dimensional (2-D) or three-dimensional (3-D) seismic lines.
Copies of migrated and annotated 2-D or 3-D seismic lines (with depth scale) intersecting at or near your proposed well locations. You are not required to conduct both 2-D and 3-D seismic surveys if you choose to conduct only one type of survey. If you have conducted both types of surveys, the Regional Supervisor may instruct you to submit the results of both surveys. You must interpret and display this information. Provide this information as an enclosure to only one proprietary copy of your DPP or DOCD.
(d)
Geological cross-sections.
Interpreted geological cross-sections showing the depths of expected productive formations.
(e)
Shallow hazards report.
A shallow hazards report based on information obtained from a high-resolution geophysical survey, or a reference to such report if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.
(f)
Shallow hazards assessment.
For each proposed well, an assessment of any seafloor and subsurface geologic and manmade features and conditions that may adversely affect your proposed drilling operations.
(g)
High resolution seismic lines.
A copy of the high-resolution survey line closest to each of your proposed well locations. Because of its volume, provide this information as an enclosure to only one proprietary copy of your DPP or DOCD. You are not required to provide this information if the surface location of your proposed well has been approved in a previously submitted EP, DPP, or DOCD.
(h)
Stratigraphic column.
A generalized biostratigraphic/lithostratigraphic column from the surface to the total depth of each proposed well.
(i)
Time-versus-depth chart.
A seismic travel time-versus-depth chart based on the appropriate velocity analysis in
the area of interpretation and specifying the geodetic datum.
(j)
Geochemical information.
A copy of any geochemical reports you used or generated.
(k)
Future G
G activities.
A brief description of the G
G explorations and development G
G activities that you may conduct for lease or unit purposes after your DPP or DOCD is approved.
§ 550.245
What hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S) information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following H
2
S information, as applicable, must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
Concentration.
The estimated concentration of any H
2
S you might encounter or handle while you conduct your proposed development and production activities.
(b)
Classification.
Under 30 CFR 250.490(c), a request that the Regional Supervisor classify the area of your proposed development and production activities as either H
2
S absent, H
2
S present, or H
2
S unknown. Provide sufficient information to justify your request.
(c)
H
2
S
Contingency Plan.
If you request that the Regional Supervisor classify the area of your proposed development and production activities as either H
2
S present or H
2
S unknown, an H
2
S Contingency Plan prepared under 30 CFR 250.490(f), or a reference to an approved or submitted H
2
S Contingency Plan that covers the proposed development and production activities.
(d)
Modeling report.
(1) If you have determined or estimated that the concentration of any H
2
S you may encounter or handle while you conduct your development and production activities will be greater than 500 parts per million (ppm), you must:
(i) Model a potential worst case H
2
S release from the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities; and
(ii) Include a modeling report or modeling results, or a reference to such report or results if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.
(2) The analysis in the modeling report must be specific to the particular site of your development and production activities, and must consider any nearby human-occupied OCS facilities, shipping lanes, fishery areas, and other points where humans may be subject to potential exposure from an H
2
S release from your proposed activities.
(3) If any H
2
S emissions are projected to affect an onshore location in concentrations greater than 10 ppm, the modeling analysis must be consistent with the EPA's risk management plan methodologies outlined in 40 CFR part 68.
§ 550.246
What mineral resource conservation information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following mineral resource conservation information, as applicable, must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
Technology and reservoir engineering practices and procedures.
A description of the technology and reservoir engineering practices and procedures you will use to increase the ultimate recovery of oil and gas (e.g., secondary, tertiary, or other enhanced recovery practices). If you will not use enhanced recovery practices initially, provide an explanation of the methods you considered and the reasons why you are not using them.
(b)
Technology and recovery practices and procedures.
A description of the technology and recovery practices and procedures you will use to ensure optimum recovery of oil and gas or sulphur.
(c)
Reservoir development.
A discussion of exploratory well results, other reservoir data, proposed well spacing, completion methods, and other relevant well plan information.
§ 550.247
What biological, physical, and socioeconomic information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
If you obtain the following information in developing your DPP or DOCD, or if the Regional Supervisor requires you to obtain it, you must include a report, or the information obtained, or a reference to such a report or information if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor, as accompanying information:
(a)
Biological environment reports.
Site-specific information on
chemosynthetic communities, federally listed threatened or endangered species, marine mammals protected under the MMPA, sensitive underwater features, marine sanctuaries, critical habitat designated under the ESA, or other areas of biological concern.
(b)
Physical environment reports.
Site-specific meteorological, physical oceanographic, geotechnical reports, or archaeological reports (if required under § 550.194).
(c)
Socioeconomic study reports.
Socioeconomic information related to your proposed development and production activities.
§ 550.248
What solid and liquid wastes and discharges information and cooling water intake information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following solid and liquid wastes and discharges information and cooling water intake information must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
Projected wastes.
A table providing the name, brief description, projected quantity, and composition of solid and liquid wastes (such as spent drilling fluids, drill cuttings, trash, sanitary and domestic wastes, produced waters, and chemical product wastes) likely to be generated by your proposed development and production activities. Describe:
(1) The methods you used for determining this information; and
(2) Your plans for treating, storing, and downhole disposal of these wastes at your facility location(s).
(b)
Projected ocean discharges.
If any of your solid and liquid wastes will be discharged overboard or are planned discharges from manmade islands:
(1) A table showing the name, projected amount, and rate of discharge for each waste type; and
(2) A description of the discharge method (such as shunting through a downpipe, adding to a produced water stream,
etc.
) you will use.
(c)
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit.
(1) A discussion of how you will comply with the provisions of the applicable general NPDES permit that covers your proposed development and production activities; or
(2) A copy of your application for an individual NPDES permit. Briefly describe the major discharges and methods you will use for compliance.
(d)
Modeling report.
A modeling report or the modeling results (if you modeled the discharges of your projected solid or liquid wastes in developing your DPP or DOCD), or a reference to such report or results if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.
(e)
Projected cooling water intake.
A table for each cooling water intake structure likely to be used by your proposed development and production activities that includes a brief description of the cooling water intake structure, daily water intake rate, water intake through-screen velocity, percentage of water intake used for cooling water, mitigation measures for reducing impingement and entrainment of aquatic organisms, and biofouling prevention measures.
§ 550.249
What air emissions information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following air emissions information, as applicable, must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
Projected emissions.
Tables showing the projected emissions of criteria air pollutants, volatile organic compounds (VOC), and total suspended particulates (TSP) generated by your proposed development and production activities.
(1) For each source on or associated with the facility you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities, you must list:
(i) The projected peak hourly emissions;
(ii) The total annual emissions in tons per year;
(iii) Emissions over the duration of the proposed development and production activities;
(iv) The frequency and duration of emissions; and
(v) The total of all emissions listed in paragraph (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(2) If your proposed production and development activities would result in an increase in the emissions of a criteria air pollutant, VOC, or TSP from your facility to an amount greater
than the amount specified in your previously approved DPP or DOCD, you must show the revised emission rates for each source as well as the incremental change for each source.
(3) You must provide the basis for all calculations, including engine size and rating, and applicable operational information.
(4) You must base the projected emissions on the maximum rated capacity of the equipment and the maximum throughput of the facility you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities under its physical and operational design.
(5) If the specific drilling unit has not yet been determined, you must use the maximum emission estimates for the type of drilling unit you will use.
(b)
Emission reduction measures.
A description of any proposed emission reduction measures, including the affected source(s), the emission reduction control technologies or procedures, the quantity of reductions to be achieved, and any monitoring system you propose to use to measure emissions.
(c)
Processes, equipment, fuels, and combustibles.
A description of processes, processing equipment, combustion equipment, fuels, and storage units. You must include the frequency, duration, and maximum burn rate of any flaring activity.
(d)
Distance to shore.
Identification of the distance of the site of your proposed development and production activities from the mean high water mark (mean higher high water mark on the Pacific coast) of the adjacent State.
(e)
Non-exempt facilities.
A description of how you will comply with § 550.303 when the projected emissions reported under paragraph (a) of this section are greater than the respective emission exemption thresholds (EET) calculated using the formulas in § 550.303(d). When BOEM requires air quality dispersion modeling, you must use the guidelines in appendix W of 40 CFR part 51 for dispersion modeling with a model approved by the Director. You must also submit the best available meteorological information and data consistent with the model(s) used.
(f)
Modeling report.
A modeling report or the modeling results (if § 550.303 requires you to use an approved air quality model to model projected air emissions in developing your DPP or DOCD), or a reference to such report or results if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 34936, June 5, 2020]
§ 550.250
What oil and hazardous substance spills information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following information regarding potential spills of oil (see definition under 30 CFR 254.6) and hazardous substances (see definition under 40 CFR part 116), as applicable, must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
Oil spill response planning.
The material required under paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section:
(1) An Oil Spill Response Plan (OSRP) for the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities prepared according to the requirements of 30 CFR part 254, subpart B; or
(2) Reference to your approved regional OSRP (see 30 CFR 254.3) to include:
(i) A discussion of your regional OSRP;
(ii) The location of your primary oil spill equipment base and staging area;
(iii) The name(s) of your oil spill removal organization(s) for both equipment and personnel;
(iv) The calculated volume of your worst case discharge scenario (see 30 CFR 254.26(a)), and a comparison of the appropriate worst case discharge scenario in your approved regional OSRP with the worst case discharge scenario that could result from your proposed development and production activities; and
(v) A description of the worst case oil spill scenario that could result from your proposed development and production activities (see 30 CFR 254.26(b), (c), (d), and (e)).
(b)
Modeling report.
If you model a potential oil or hazardous substance spill in developing your DPP or DOCD, a modeling report or the modeling results, or a reference to such report or
results if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.
§ 550.251
If I propose activities in the Alaska OCS Region, what planning information must accompany the DPP?
If you propose development and production activities in the Alaska OCS Region, the following planning information must accompany your DPP:
(a)
Emergency plans.
A description of your emergency plans to respond to a blowout, loss or disablement of a drilling unit, and loss of or damage to support craft; and
(b)
Critical operations and curtailment procedures.
Critical operations and curtailment procedures for your development and production activities. The procedures must identify ice conditions, weather, and other constraints under which the development and production activities will either be curtailed or not proceed.
§ 550.252
What environmental monitoring information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following environmental monitoring information, as applicable, must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
Monitoring systems.
A description of any existing and planned monitoring systems that are measuring, or will measure, environmental conditions or will provide project-specific data or information on the impacts of your development and production activities.
(b)
Incidental takes.
If there is reason to believe that protected species may be incidentally taken by planned development and production activities, you must describe how you will monitor for incidental take of:
(1) Threatened and endangered species listed under the ESA; and
(2) Marine mammals, as appropriate, if you have not already received authorization for incidental take of marine mammals as may be necessary under the MMPA.
(c)
Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary (FGBNMS).
If you propose to conduct development and production activities within the protective zones of the FGBNMS, a description of your provisions for monitoring the impacts of oil spill on the environmentally sensitive resources of the FGBNMS.
§ 550.253
What lease stipulations information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
A description of the measures you took, or will take, to satisfy the conditions of lease stipulations related to your proposed development and production activities must accompany your DPP or DOCD.
§ 550.254
What mitigation measures information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
(a) If you propose to use any measures beyond those required by the regulations in this part to minimize or mitigate environmental impacts from your proposed development and production activities, a description of the measures you will use must accompany your DPP or DOCD.
(b) If there is reason to believe that protected species may be incidentally taken by planned development and production activities, you must include mitigation measures designed to avoid or minimize that incidental take of:
(1) Threatened and endangered species listed under the ESA; and
(2) Marine mammals, as appropriate, if you have not already received authorization for incidental take as may be necessary under the MMPA.
§ 550.255
What decommissioning information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
A brief description of how you intend to decommission your wells, platforms, pipelines, and other facilities, and clear your site(s) must accompany your DPP or DOCD.
§ 550.256
What related facilities and operations information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following information regarding facilities and operations directly related to your proposed development and production activities must accompany your DPP or DOCD.
(a)
OCS facilities and operations.
A description and location of any of the following that directly relate to your proposed development and production activities:
(1) Drilling units;
(2) Production platforms;
(3) Right-of-way pipelines (including those that transport chemical products and produced water); and
(4) Other facilities and operations located on the OCS (regardless of ownership).
(b)
Transportation system.
A discussion of the transportation system that you will use to transport your production to shore, including:
(1) Routes of any new pipelines;
(2) Information concerning barges and shuttle tankers, including the storage capacity of the transport vessel(s), and the number of transfers that will take place per year;
(3) Information concerning any intermediate storage or processing facilities;
(4) An estimate of the quantities of oil, gas, or sulphur to be transported from your production facilities; and
(5) A description and location of the primary onshore terminal.
§ 550.257
What information on the support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following information on the support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
General.
A description of the crew boats, supply boats, anchor handling vessels, tug boats, barges, ice management vessels, other vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use to support your development and production activities. The description of vessels and offshore vehicles must estimate the storage capacity of their fuel tanks and the frequency of their visits to the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities.
(b)
Air emissions.
A table showing the source, composition, frequency, and duration of the air emissions likely to be generated by the support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use that will operate within 25 miles of the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities.
(c)
Drilling fluids and chemical products transportation.
A description of the transportation method and quantities of drilling fluids and chemical products (see § 550.243(b) and (d)) you will transport from the onshore support facilities you will use to the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities.
(d)
Solid and liquid wastes transportation.
A description of the transportation method and a brief description of the composition, quantities, and destination(s) of solid and liquid wastes (see § 550.248(a)) you will transport from the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities.
(e)
Vicinity map.
A map showing the location of your proposed development and production activities relative to the shoreline. The map must depict the primary route(s) the support vessels and aircraft will use when traveling between the onshore support facilities you will use and the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities.
§ 550.258
What information on the onshore support facilities you will use must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following information on the onshore support facilities you will use must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
General.
A description of the onshore facilities you will use to provide supply and service support for your proposed development and production activities (e.g., service bases and mud company docks).
(1) Indicate whether the onshore support facilities are existing, to be constructed, or to be expanded; and
(2) For DPPs only, provide a timetable for acquiring lands (including rights-of-way and easements) and constructing or expanding any of the onshore support facilities.
(b)
Air emissions.
A description of the source, composition, frequency, and duration of the air emissions (attributable to your proposed development and production activities) likely to be generated by the onshore support facilities you will use.
(c)
Unusual solid and liquid wastes.
A description of the quantity, composition, and method of disposal of any unusual solid and liquid wastes (attributable to your proposed development and production activities) likely to be
generated by the onshore support facilities you will use. Unusual wastes are those wastes not specifically addressed in the relevant National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit.
(d)
Waste disposal.
A description of the onshore facilities you will use to store and dispose of solid and liquid wastes generated by your proposed development and production activities (see § 550.248(a)) and the types and quantities of such wastes.
§ 550.259
What sulphur operations information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
If you are proposing to conduct sulphur development and production activities, the following information must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
Bleedwater.
A discussion of the bleedwater that will be generated by your proposed sulphur activities, including the measures you will take to mitigate the potential toxic or thermal impacts on the environment caused by the discharge of bleedwater.
(b)
Subsidence.
An estimate of the degree of subsidence expected at various stages of your sulphur development and production activities, and a description of the measures you will take to mitigate the effects of subsidence on existing or potential oil and gas production, production platforms, and production facilities, and to protect the environment.
§ 550.260
What Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following CZMA information must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
Consistency certification.
A copy of your consistency certification under section 307(c)(3)(B) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)) and 15 CFR 930.76(c) stating that the proposed development and production activities described in detail in this DPP or DOCD comply with (name of State(s)) approved coastal management program(s) and will be conducted in a manner that is consistent with such program(s); and
(b)
Other information.
“Information” as required by 15 CFR 930.76(a) and 15 CFR 930.58(a)(2)) and “Analysis” as required by 15 CFR 930.58(a)(3).
§ 550.261
What environmental impact analysis (EIA) information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following EIA information must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
General requirements.
Your EIA must:
(1) Assess the potential environmental impacts of your proposed development and production activities;
(2) Be project specific; and
(3) Be as detailed as necessary to assist the Regional Supervisor in complying with the NEPA of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
) and other relevant Federal laws such as the ESA and the MMPA.
(b)
Resources, conditions, and activities.
Your EIA must describe those resources, conditions, and activities listed below that could be affected by your proposed development and production activities, or that could affect the construction and operation of facilities or structures or the activities proposed in your DPP or DOCD.
(1) Meteorology, oceanography, geology, and shallow geological or manmade hazards;
(2) Air and water quality;
(3) Benthic communities, marine mammals, sea turtles, coastal and marine birds, fish and shellfish, and plant life;
(4) Threatened or endangered species and their critical habitat;
(5) Sensitive biological resources or habitats such as essential fish habitat, refuges, preserves, special management areas identified in coastal management programs, sanctuaries, rookeries, and calving grounds;
(6) Archaeological resources;
(7) Socioeconomic resources (including the approximate number, timing, and duration of employment of persons engaged in onshore support and construction activities), population (including the approximate number of people and families added to local onshore areas), existing offshore and onshore infrastructure (including major sources of supplies, services, energy, and water), types of contractors or vendors that may place a demand on local goods and services, land use, subsistence resources and harvest practices,
recreation, recreational and commercial fishing (including seasons, location, and type), minority and lower income groups, and CZMA programs;
(8) Coastal and marine uses such as military activities, shipping, and mineral exploration or development; and
(9) Other resources, conditions, and activities identified by the Regional Supervisor.
(c)
Environmental impacts.
Your EIA must:
(1) Analyze the potential direct and indirect impacts (including those from accidents, cooling water intake structures, and those identified in relevant ESA biological opinions such as, but not limited to, those from noise, vessel collisions, and marine trash and debris) that your proposed development and production activities will have on the identified resources, conditions, and activities;
(2) Describe the type, severity, and duration of these potential impacts and their biological, physical, and other consequences and implications;
(3) Describe potential measures to minimize or mitigate these potential impacts;
(4) Describe any alternatives to your proposed development and production activities that you considered while developing your DPP or DOCD, and compare the potential environmental impacts; and
(5) Summarize the information you incorporate by reference.
(d)
Consultation.
Your EIA must include a list of agencies and persons with whom you consulted, or with whom you will be consulting, regarding potential impacts associated with your proposed development and production activities.
(e)
References cited.
Your EIA must include a list of the references that you cite in the EIA.
§ 550.262
What administrative information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
The following administrative information must accompany your DPP or DOCD:
(a)
Exempted information description (public information copies only).
A description of the general subject matter of the proprietary information that is included in the proprietary copies of your DPP or DOCD or its accompanying information.
(b)
Bibliography.
(1) If you reference a previously submitted EP, DPP, DOCD, study report, survey report, or other material in your DPP or DOCD or its accompanying information, a list of the referenced material; and
(2) The location(s) where the Regional Supervisor can inspect the cited referenced material if you have not submitted it.

# Review and Decision Process for the DPP or DOCD
§ 550.266
After receiving the DPP or DOCD, what will BOEM do?
(a)
Determine whether deemed submitted.
Within 25 working days after receiving your proposed DPP or DOCD and its accompanying information, the Regional Supervisor will deem your DPP or DOCD submitted if:
(1) The submitted information, including the information that must accompany the DPP or DOCD (refer to the list in § 550.242), fulfills requirements and is sufficiently accurate;
(2) You have provided all needed additional information (see § 550.201(b)); and
(3) You have provided the required number of copies (see § 550.206(a)).
(b)
Identify problems and deficiencies.
If the Regional Supervisor determines that you have not met one or more of the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section, the Regional Supervisor will notify you of the problem or deficiency within 25 working days after the Regional Supervisor receives your DPP or DOCD and its accompanying information. The Regional Supervisor will not deem your DPP or DOCD submitted until you have corrected all problems or deficiencies identified in the notice.
(c)
Deemed submitted notification.
The Regional Supervisor will notify you when your DPP or DOCD is deemed submitted.
§ 550.267
What actions will BOEM take after the DPP or DOCD is deemed submitted?
(a)
State, local government, CZMA consistency, and other reviews.
Within 2
working days after the Regional Supervisor deems your DPP or DOCD submitted under § 550.266, the Regional Supervisor will use receipted mail or alternative method to send a public information copy of the DPP or DOCD and its accompanying information to the following:
(1)
The Governor of each affected State.
The Governor has 60 calendar days after receiving your deemed-submitted DPP or DOCD to submit comments and recommendations. The Regional Supervisor will not consider comments and recommendations received after the deadline.
(2)
The executive of any affected local government who requests a copy.
The executive of any affected local government has 60 calendar days after receipt of your deemed-submitted DPP or DOCD to submit comments and recommendations. The Regional Supervisor will not consider comments and recommendations received after the deadline. The executive of any affected local government must forward all comments and recommendations to the respective Governor before submitting them to the Regional Supervisor.
(3)
The CZMA agency of each affected State.
The CZMA consistency review period under section 307(c)(3)(B)(ii) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C.1456(c)(3)(B)(ii)) and 15 CFR 930.78 begins when the States CZMA agency receives a copy of your deemed-submitted DPP or DOCD, consistency certification, and required necessary data/information (see 15 CFR 930.77(a)(1)).
(b)
General public.
Within 2 working days after the Regional Supervisor deems your DPP or DOCD submitted under § 550.266, the Regional Supervisor will make a public information copy of the DPP or DOCD and its accompanying information available for review to any appropriate interstate regional entity and the public at the appropriate BOEM Regional Public Information Office. Any interested Federal agency or person may submit comments and recommendations to the Regional Supervisor. Comments and recommendations must be received by the Regional Supervisor within 60 calendar days after the DPP or DOCD including its accompanying information is made available.
(c)
BOEM compliance review.
The Regional Supervisor will review the development and production activities in your proposed DPP or DOCD to ensure that they conform to the performance standards in § 550.202.
(d)
Amendments.
During the review of your proposed DPP or DOCD, the Regional Supervisor may require you, or you may elect, to change your DPP or DOCD. If you elect to amend your DPP or DOCD, the Regional Supervisor may determine that your DPP or DOCD, as amended, is subject to the requirements of § 550.266.
§ 550.268
How does BOEM respond to recommendations?
(a)
Governor.
The Regional Supervisor will accept those recommendations from the Governor that provide a reasonable balance between the National interest and the well-being of the citizens of each affected State. The Regional Supervisor will explain in writing to the Governor the reasons for rejecting any of his or her recommendations.
(b)
Local governments and the public.
The Regional Supervisor may accept recommendations from the executive of any affected local government or the public.
(c)
Availability.
The Regional Supervisor will make all comments and recommendations available to the public upon request.
§ 550.269
How will BOEM evaluate the environmental impacts of the DPP or DOCD?
The Regional Supervisor will evaluate the environmental impacts of the activities described in your proposed DPP or DOCD and prepare environmental documentation under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (42 U.S.C.4321
et seq.
) and the implementing regulations (40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508).
(a)
Environmental impact statement (EIS) declaration.
At least once in each OCS planning area (other than the Western and Central GOA Planning Areas), the Director will declare that the approval of a proposed DPP is a major Federal action, and BOEM will prepare an EIS.
(b)
Leases or units in the vicinity.
Before or immediately after the Director determines that preparation of an EIS is required, the Regional Supervisor may require lessees and operators of leases or units in the vicinity of the proposed development and production activities for which DPPs have not been approved to submit information about preliminary plans for their leases or units.
(c)
Draft EIS.
The Regional Supervisor will send copies of the draft EIS to the Governor of each affected State and to the executive of each affected local government who requests a copy. Additionally, when BOEM prepares a DPP EIS, and the Federally-approved CZMA program for an affected State requires a DPP NEPA document for use in determining consistency, the Regional Supervisor will forward a copy of the draft EIS to the State's CZMA agency. The Regional Supervisor will also make copies of the draft EIS available to any appropriate Federal agency, interstate regional entity, and the public.
§ 550.270
What decisions will BOEM make on the DPP or DOCD and within what timeframe?
(a)
Timeframe.
The Regional Supervisor will act on your deemed-submitted DPP or DOCD as follows:
(1) The Regional Supervisor will make a decision within 60 calendar days after the latest of the day that:
(i) The comment period provided in § 550.267(a)(1), (a)(2), and (b) closes;
(ii) The final EIS for a DPP is released or adopted; or
(iii) The last amendment to your proposed DOCD is received by the Regional Supervisor.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, BOEM will not approve your DPP or DOCD until either:
(i) All affected States with approved CZMA programs concur, or have been conclusively presumed to concur, with your DPP or DOCD consistency certification under section 307(c)(3)(B)(i) and (ii) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(i) and (ii)); or
(ii) The Secretary of Commerce has made a finding authorized by section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(iii)) that each activity described in the DPP or DOCD is consistent with the objectives of the CZMA, or is otherwise necessary in the interest of National security.
(b)
BOEM decision.
By the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section, the Regional Supervisor will take one of the following actions:
The regional supervisor will . . .
If . . .
And then . . .
(1) Approve your DPP or DOCD,
It complies with all applicable requirements,
The Regional Supervisor will notify you in writing of the decision and may require you to meet certain conditions, including those to provide monitoring information.
(2) Require you to modify your proposed DPP or DOCD,
It fails to make adequate provisions for safety, environmental protection, or conservation of natural resources or otherwise does not comply with the lease, the Act, the regulations prescribed under the Act, or other Federal laws,
The Regional Supervisor will notify you in writing of the decision and describe the modifications you must make to your proposed DPP or DOCD to ensure it complies with all applicable requirements.
(3) Disapprove your DPP or DOCD,
Any of the reasons in § 550.271 apply,
(i) The Regional Supervisor will notify you in writing of the decision and describe the reason(s) for disapproving your DPP or DOCD; and
(ii) BOEM may cancel your lease and compensate you under 43 U.S.C. 1351(h)(2)(C) and the implementing regulations in §§ 550.183 through 550.185 and 30 CFR 556.77.
§ 550.271
For what reasons will BOEM disapprove the DPP or DOCD?
The Regional Supervisor will disapprove your proposed DPP or DOCD if one of the four reasons in this section applies:
(a)
Non-compliance.
The Regional Supervisor determines that you have failed to demonstrate that you can
comply with the requirements of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended (Act), implementing regulations, or other applicable Federal laws.
(b)
No consistency concurrence.
(1) An affected State has not yet issued a final decision on your coastal zone consistency certification (see 15 CFR 930.78(a)); or
(2) An affected State objects to your coastal zone consistency certification, and the Secretary of Commerce, under section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(iii)), has not found that each activity described in the DPP or DOCD is consistent with the objectives of the CZMA or is otherwise necessary in the interest of National security.
(3) If the Regional Supervisor disapproved your DPP or DOCD for the sole reason that an affected State either has not yet issued a final decision on, or has objected to, your coastal zone consistency certification (see paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) in this section), the Regional Supervisor will approve your DPP or DOCD upon receipt of concurrence by the affected State, at the time concurrence of the affected State is conclusively presumed, or when the Secretary of Commerce makes a finding authorized by section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(iii)) that each activity described in your DPP or DOCD is consistent with the objectives of the CZMA, or is otherwise necessary in the interest of National security. In that event, you do not need to resubmit your DPP or DOCD for approval under § 550.273(b).
(c)
National security or defense conflicts.
Your proposed activities would threaten National security or defense.
(d)
Exceptional circumstances.
The Regional Supervisor determines because of exceptional geological conditions, exceptional resource values in the marine or coastal environment, or other exceptional circumstances that all of the following apply:
(1) Implementing your DPP or DOCD would cause serious harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, any mineral deposits (in areas leased or not leased), the National security or defense, or the marine, coastal, or human environment;
(2) The threat of harm or damage will not disappear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a reasonable period of time; and
(3) The advantages of disapproving your DPP or DOCD outweigh the advantages of development and production.
§ 550.272
If a State objects to the DPP's or DOCD's coastal zone consistency certification, what can I do?
If an affected State objects to the coastal zone consistency certification accompanying your proposed or disapproved DPP or DOCD, you may do one of the following:
(a)
Amend or resubmit your DPP or DOCD.
Amend or resubmit your DPP or DOCD to accommodate the State's objection and submit the amendment or resubmittal to the Regional Supervisor for approval. The amendment or resubmittal needs to only address information related to the State's objections.
(b)
Appeal.
Appeal the State's objection to the Secretary of Commerce using the procedures in 15 CFR part 930, subpart H. The Secretary of Commerce will either:
(1) Grant your appeal by finding under section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C.1456(c)(3)(B)(iii)) that each activity described in detail in your DPP or DOCD is consistent with the objectives of the CZMA, or is otherwise necessary in the interest of National security; or
(2) Deny your appeal, in which case you may amend or resubmit your DPP or DOCD, as described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Withdraw your DPP or DOCD.
Withdraw your DPP or DOCD if you decide not to conduct your proposed development and production activities.
§ 550.273
How do I submit a modified DPP or DOCD or resubmit a disapproved DPP or DOCD?
(a)
Modified DPP or DOCD.
If the Regional Supervisor requires you to modify your proposed DPP or DOCD under § 550.270(b)(2), you must submit the modification(s) to the Regional Supervisor in the same manner as for a new DPP or DOCD. You need submit only
information related to the proposed modification(s).
(b)
Resubmitted DPP or DOCD.
If the Regional Supervisor disapproves your DPP or DOCD under § 550.270(b)(3), and except as provided in § 550.271(b)(3), you may resubmit the disapproved DPP or DOCD if there is a change in the conditions that were the basis of its disapproval.
(c)
BOEM review and timeframe.
The Regional Supervisor will use the performance standards in § 550.202 to either approve, require you to further modify, or disapprove your modified or resubmitted DPP or DOCD. The Regional Supervisor will make a decision within 60 calendar days after the Regional Supervisor deems your modified or resubmitted DPP or DOCD to be submitted, or receives the last amendment to your modified or resubmitted DPP or DOCD, whichever occurs later.

# Post-Approval Requirements for the EP, DPP, and DOCD
§ 550.280
How must I conduct activities under the approved EP, DPP, or DOCD?
(a)
Compliance.
You must conduct all of your lease and unit activities according to your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD and any approval conditions. If you fail to comply with your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD:
(1) You may be subject to BOEM enforcement action, including civil penalties; and
(2) The lease(s) involved in your EP, DPP, or DOCD may be forfeited or cancelled under 43 U.S.C. 1334(c) or (d). If this happens, you will not be entitled to compensation under § 550.185(b) and 30 CFR 556.77.
(b)
Emergencies.
Nothing in this subpart or in your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD relieves you of, or limits your responsibility to take appropriate measures to meet emergency situations. In an emergency situation, the Regional Supervisor may approve or require departures from your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD.
§ 550.281
What must I do to conduct activities under the approved EP, DPP, or DOCD?
(a)
Approvals and permits.
Before you conduct activities under your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD you must obtain the following approvals and or permits, as applicable, from the District Manager or BSEE Regional Supervisor:
(1) Approval of applications for permits to drill (APDs) (see 30 CFR 250.410);
(2) Approval of production safety systems (see 30 CFR 250.800);
(3) Approval of new platforms and other structures (or major modifications to platforms and other structures) (see 30 CFR 250.905);
(4) Approval of applications to install lease term pipelines (see 30 CFR 250.1007); and
(5) Other permits, as required by applicable law.
(b)
Conformance.
The activities proposed in these applications and permits must conform to the activities described in detail in your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD.
(c)
Separate State CZMA consistency review.
APDs, and other applications for licenses, approvals, or permits to conduct activities under your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD including those identified in paragraph (a) of this section, are not subject to separate State CZMA consistency review.
(d)
Approval restrictions for permits for activities conducted under EPs.
The Regional Supervisor will not approve any APDs or other applications for licenses, approvals, or permits under your approved EP until either:
(1) All affected States with approved coastal zone management programs concur, or are conclusively presumed to concur, with the coastal zone consistency certification accompanying your EP under section 307(c)(3)(B)(i) and (ii) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(i) and (ii)); or
(2) The Secretary of Commerce finds, under section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C.1456(c)(3)(B)(iii)) that each activity covered by the EP is consistent with the objectives of the CZMA or is otherwise necessary in the interest of National security;
(3) If an affected State objects to the coastal zone consistency certification accompanying your approved EP after BOEM has approved your EP, you may either:
(i) Revise your EP to accommodate the State's objection and submit the
revision to the Regional Supervisor for approval; or
(ii) Appeal the State's objection to the Secretary of Commerce using the procedures in 15 CFR part 930, subpart H. The Secretary of Commerce will either:
(A) Grant your appeal by making the finding described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; or
(B) Deny your appeal, in which case you may revise your EP as described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section.
§ 550.282
Do I have to conduct post-approval monitoring?
After approving your EP, DPP, or DOCD, the Regional Supervisor may direct you to conduct monitoring programs, including monitoring in accordance with the ESA and the MMPA. You must retain copies of all monitoring data obtained or derived from your monitoring programs and make them available to the BOEM upon request. The Regional Supervisor may require you to:
(a)
Monitoring plans.
Submit monitoring plans for approval before you begin the work; and
(b)
Monitoring reports.
Prepare and submit reports that summarize and analyze data and information obtained or derived from your monitoring programs. The Regional Supervisor will specify requirements for preparing and submitting these reports.
§ 550.283
When must I revise or supplement the approved EP, DPP, or DOCD?
(a)
Revised OCS plans.
You must revise your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD when you propose to:
(1) Change the type of drilling rig (e.g., jack-up, platform rig, barge, submersible, semisubmersible, or drillship), production facility (e.g., caisson, fixed platform with piles, tension leg platform), or transportation mode (e.g., pipeline, barge);
(2) Change the surface location of a well or production platform by a distance more than that specified by the Regional Supervisor;
(3) Change the type of production or significantly increase the volume of production or storage capacity;
(4) Increase the emissions of an criteria air pollutant, VOC, or TSP to an amount that exceeds the amount specified in your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD;
(5) Significantly increase the amount of solid or liquid wastes to be handled or discharged;
(6) Request a new H
2
S area classification, or increase the concentration of H
2
S to a concentration greater than that specified by the Regional Supervisor;
(7) Change the location of your onshore support base either from one State to another or to a new base or a base requiring expansion; or
(8) Change any other activity specified by the Regional Supervisor.
(b)
Supplemental OCS plans.
You must supplement your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD when you propose to conduct activities on your lease(s) or unit that require approval of a license or permit which is not described in your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD. These types of changes are called supplemental OCS plans.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 34936, June 5, 2020]
§ 550.284
How will BOEM require revisions to the approved EP, DPP, or DOCD?
(a)
Periodic review.
The Regional Supervisor will periodically review the activities you conduct under your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD and may require you to submit updated information on your activities. The frequency and extent of this review will be based on the significance of any changes in available information and onshore or offshore conditions affecting, or affected by, the activities in your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD.
(b)
Results of review.
The Regional Supervisor may require you to revise your approved EP, DPP, or DOCD based on this review. In such cases, the Regional Supervisor will inform you of the reasons for the decision.
§ 550.285
How do I submit revised and supplemental EPs, DPPs, and DOCDs?
(a)
Submittal.
You must submit to the Regional Supervisor any revisions and supplements to approved EPs, DPPs, or
DOCDs for approval, whether you initiate them or the Regional Supervisor orders them.
(b)
Information.
Revised and supplemental EPs, DPPs, and DOCDs need include only information related to or affected by the proposed changes, including information on changes in expected environmental impacts.
(c)
Procedures.
All supplemental EPs, DPPs, and DOCDs, and those revised EPs, DPPs, and DOCDs that the Regional Supervisor determines are likely to result in a significant change in the impacts previously identified and evaluated, are subject to all of the procedures under §§ 550.231 through 550.235 for EPs and §§ 550.266 through 550.273 for DPPs and DOCDs.
§§ 550.286-550.295
[Reserved]

# Conservation Information Documents (CID)
§ 550.296
When and how must I submit a CID or a revision to a CID?
(a) You must submit one original and two copies of a CID to the appropriate OCS Region at the same time you first submit your DOCD or DPP for any development of a lease or leases located in water depths greater than 400 meters (1,312 feet). You must also submit a CID for a Supplemental DOCD or DPP when requested by the Regional Supervisor. The submission of your CID must be accompanied by payment of the service fee listed in § 550.125.
(b) If you decide not to develop a reservoir you committed to develop in your CID, you must submit one original and two copies of a revision to the CID to the appropriate OCS Region. The revision to the CID must be submitted within 14 calendar days after making your decision not to develop the reservoir and before the reservoir is bypassed. The Regional Supervisor will approve or disapprove any such revision to the original CID. If the Regional Supervisor disapproves the revision, you must develop the reservoir as described in the original CID.
§ 550.297
What information must a CID contain?
(a) You must base the CID on wells drilled before your CID submittal that define the extent of the reservoirs. You must notify BOEM of any well that is drilled to total depth during the CID evaluation period and you may be required to update your CID.
(b) You must include all of the following information if available. Information must be provided for each hydrocarbon-bearing reservoir that is penetrated by a well that would meet the producibility requirements of § 550.115 or § 550.116:
(1) General discussion of the overall development of the reservoir;
(2) Summary spreadsheets of well log data and reservoir parameters (
i.e.,
sand tops and bases, fluid contacts, net pay, porosity, water saturations, pressures, formation volume factor);
(3) Appropriate well logs, including digital well log (
i.e.,
gamma ray, resistivity, neutron, density, sonic, caliper curves) curves in an acceptable digital format;
(4) Sidewall core/whole core and pressure-volume-temperature analysis;
(5) Structure maps, with the existing and proposed penetration points and subsea depths for all wells penetrating the reservoirs, fluid contacts (or the lowest or highest known levels in the absence of actual contacts), reservoir boundaries, and the scale of the map;
(6) Interpreted structural cross sections and corresponding interpreted seismic lines or block diagrams, as necessary, that include all current wellbores and planned wellbores on the leases or units to be developed, the reservoir boundaries, fluid contacts, depth scale, stratigraphic positions, and relative biostratigraphic ages;
(7) Isopach maps of each reservoir showing the net feet of pay for each well within the reservoir identified at the penetration point, along with the well name, labeled contours, and scale;
(8) Estimates of original oil and gas in-place and anticipated recoverable oil and gas reserves, all reservoir parameters, and risk factors and assumptions;
(9) Plat map at the same scale as the structure maps with existing and proposed well paths, as well as existing and proposed penetrations;
(10) Wellbore schematics indicating proposed perforations;
(11) Proposed wellbore utility chart showing all existing and proposed
wells, with proposed completion intervals indicated for each borehole;
(12) Appropriate pressure data, specified by date, and whether estimated or measured;
(13) Description of reservoir development strategies;
(14) Description of the enhanced recovery practices you will use or, if you do not plan to use such practices, an explanation of the methods you considered and reasons you do not intend to use them;
(15) For each reservoir you do not intend to develop:
(i) A statement explaining the reason(s) you will not develop the reservoir, and
(ii) Economic justification, including costs, recoverable reserve estimate, production profiles, and pricing assumptions; and
(16) Any other appropriate data you used in performing your reservoir evaluations and preparing your reservoir development strategies.
§ 550.298
How long will BOEM take to evaluate and make a decision on the CID?
(a) The Regional Supervisor will make a decision within 150 calendar days of receiving your CID. If BOEM does not act within 150 calendar days, your CID is considered approved.
(b) BOEM may suspend the 150-calendar-day evaluation period if there is missing, inconclusive, or inaccurate data, or when a well reaches total depth during the evaluation period. BOEM may also suspend the evaluation period when a well penetrating a hydrocarbon-bearing structure reaches total depth during the evaluation period and the data from that well is needed for the CID. You will receive written notification from the Regional Supervisor describing the additional information that is needed, and the evaluation period will resume once BOEM receives the requested information.
(c) The Regional Supervisor will approve or deny your CID request based on your commitment to develop economically producible reservoirs according to sound conservation, engineering, and economic practices.
§ 550.299
What operations require approval of the CID?
You may not begin production before you receive BOEM approval of the CID.

# Subpart C—Pollution Prevention and Control
§§ 550.300-550.301
[Reserved]
§ 550.302
Definitions concerning air quality.
For purposes of §§ 550.303 and 550.304 of this part:
Attainment area
means, for any criteria air pollutant, an area which is shown by monitored data or which is calculated by air quality modeling (or other methods determined by the Administrator of EPA to be reliable) not to exceed any primary or secondary ambient air quality standards established by EPA.
Best available control technology (BACT)
means an emission limitation based on the maximum degree of reduction for each criteria air pollutant and VOC subject to regulation, taking into account energy, environmental and economic impacts, and other costs. The BACT shall be verified on a case-by-case basis by the Regional Supervisor and may include reductions achieved through the application of processes, systems, and techniques for the control of each criteria air pollutant and VOC.
Criteria air pollutant
means any air pollutant for which the EPA has established a primary or secondary national ambient air quality standard pursuant to section 109 of the Clean Air Act.
Emission exemption threshold
(EET) means the rate of projected emissions, calculated for a criteria air pollutant or VOC or TSP, above which a facility would be subject to the requirements of § 550.303(e) through (i) or § 550.304(b) through (e).
Emission offsets
mean emission reductions obtained from facilities, either onshore or offshore, other than the facility or facilities covered by the proposed Exploration Plan (EP), Development and Production Plan (DPP), or Development Operations Coordination Document (DOCD).
Existing facility,
as used in § 550.303, means an OCS facility described in an Exploration Plan, a Development and
Production Plan, or a Development Operations Coordination Document approved before June 2, 1980.
Facility
means any installation or device permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed which is used for exploration, development, and production activities for oil, gas, or sulphur and which emits or has the potential to emit any air pollutant from one or more sources. All equipment directly associated with the installation or device shall be considered part of a single facility if the equipment is dependent on, or affects the processes of, the installation or device. During production, multiple installations or devices will be considered to be a single facility if the installations or devices are directly related to the production of oil, gas, or sulphur at a single site. Any vessel used to transfer production from an offshore facility shall be considered part of the facility while physically attached to it.
National Ambient Air Quality Standard
(NAAQS) means a national air quality standard for any given criteria air pollutant, established pursuant to section 109 of the Clean Air Act.
Nonattainment area
means, for any criteria air pollutant, an area which is shown by monitored data or which is calculated by air quality modeling (or other methods determined by the Administrator of EPA to be reliable) to exceed any primary or secondary ambient air quality standard established by EPA.
Projected emissions
mean emissions, either controlled or uncontrolled, from a source(s).
Source
means an emission point. Several sources may be included within a single facility.
Temporary facility
means activities associated with the construction of platforms offshore or with facilities related to exploration for or development of offshore oil and gas resources which are conducted in one location for less than 3 years.
Volatile organic compound (VOC)
means any organic compound that is emitted to the atmosphere as a vapor. Unreactive compounds are excluded from the preceding sentence of this definition.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 34936, June 5, 2020]
§ 550.303
Facilities described in a new or revised Exploration Plan, Development and Production Plan, or Development Operations Coordination Document.
(a)
New plans.
All Exploration Plans, Development and Production Plans, and Development Operations Coordination Documents shall include the information required to make the necessary findings under paragraphs (d) through (i) of this section, and the lessee shall comply with the requirements of this section as necessary.
(b)
Applicability of § 550.303 to existing facilities.
(1) The Regional Supervisor may review any Exploration Plan, Development and Production Plan, or Development Operations Coordination Document to determine whether any facility described in the plan should be subject to review under this section and has the potential to significantly affect the air quality of an onshore area. To make these decisions, the Regional Supervisor shall consider the distance of the facility from shore, the size of the facility, the number of sources planned for the facility and their operational status, and the air quality status of the onshore area.
(2) For a facility identified by the Regional Supervisor in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Regional Supervisor shall require the lessee to refer to the information required in § 550.218 or § 550.249 of this part and to submit only that information required to make the necessary findings under paragraphs (d) through (i) of this section. The lessee shall submit this information within 120 days of the Regional Supervisor's determination or within a longer period of time at the discretion of the Regional Supervisor. The lessee shall comply with the requirements of this section as necessary.
(c)
Revised facilities.
All revised Exploration Plans, Development and Production Plans, and Development Operations Coordination Documents shall include the information required to make the necessary findings under
paragraphs (d) through (i) of this section. The lessee shall comply with the requirements of this section as necessary.
(d)
Exemption formulas.
To determine whether a facility described in an initial, modified, supplemental, or revised Exploration Plan, Development and Production Plan, or Development Operations Coordination Document is exempt from further air quality review, the lessee must use the highest annual-total amount of emissions from the facility calculated for each criteria air pollutant, VOC, and TSP listed in § 550.249(a) or § 550.218(a) and compare these emissions to the emission exemption threshold (EET) calculated using the following formulas: EET = 3400*D
2/3
for carbon monoxide (CO); and EET = 33.3*D for total suspended particulates (TSP), sulfur dioxide (SO
2
), nitrogen oxides (NO
X
), utilizing NO
2
as the indicator pollutant for NO
X,
and VOC (where EET is the emission exemption threshold expressed in short tons per year, and D is the distance of the proposed facility from the closest onshore area of a State expressed in statute miles). If the amount of these projected emissions is less than or equal to the emission exemption threshold (EET) for the corresponding criteria air pollutant, VOC, and TSP, the facility is exempt from further air quality review required under paragraphs (e) through (i) of this section.
(e)
Significance levels (SLs).
(1) For a facility not exempt under paragraph (d) of this section, the lessee must use a BOEM approved air quality model to determine whether projected emissions from the facility result in an onshore ambient air concentration above any SL set forth in the following table:
Table 1 to Paragraph
(e)(1)
—Significance Levels (SLs)
Averaging time
1 hour
(mg/m
3
)
3 hour
(µg/m
3
)
8 hour
(mg/m
3
)
24 hour
(µg/m
3
)
Annual
(µg/m
3
)
Criteria Air Pollutant:
Sulfur Dioxide
25.0
5.0
1.0
PM
10
5.0
1.0
PM
2.5
1.2
0.3
Nitrogen Dioxide
1
1.0
Carbon Monoxide
2.0
0.5
1
NO
2
is the indicator pollutant for NO
X
.
(2) In the event that the emissions of TSP exceed the EET for TSP, the lessee must use a BOEM approved air quality model to determine whether the projected emissions from the facility result in an onshore ambient air concentration above the SL for either PM
10
or PM
2.5
.
(f)
Significance determinations.
(1) The projected emissions of any criteria air pollutant from any facility that result in an onshore ambient air concentration above a SL determined under paragraph (e) of this section for that criteria air pollutant will be deemed to significantly affect the air quality of the onshore area for that criteria air pollutant.
(2) The projected emissions of VOC from any facility which is not exempt under paragraph (d) of this section will be deemed to significantly affect the air quality of the onshore area for VOC.
(g)
Controls required.
(1) The projected emissions of any criteria air pollutant from any facility, except a temporary facility, which significantly affect the quality of a nonattainment area, shall be fully reduced. This shall be done through the application of BACT and, if additional reductions are necessary, through the application of additional emission controls or through the acquisition of offshore or onshore offsets.
(2) The projected emissions of any criteria air pollutant from any facility which significantly affect the air quality of an attainment or unclassifiable area shall be reduced through the application of BACT.
(i)(A) Except for temporary facilities, the lessee also shall use an approved air quality model to determine whether
the emissions of TSP or SO
2
that remain after the application of BACT cause the following maximum allowable increases over the baseline concentrations established in 40 CFR 52.21 to be exceeded in the attainment or unclassifiable area:
Maximum Allowable Concentration Increases
[µg/m
3
]
Air pollutant
Averaging times
Annual mean
1
24-hour
maximum
3-hour
maximum
Class I:
TSP
5
10
SO
2
2
5
25
Class II:
TSP
19
37
SO
2
20
91
512
Class III:
TSP
37
75
SO
2
40
182
700
1
For TSP—geometric; For SO
2
—arithmetric.
(B) No concentration of an criteria air pollutant shall exceed the concentration permitted under the national secondary ambient air quality standard or the concentration permitted under the national primary air quality standard, whichever concentration is lowest for the criteria air pollutant for the period of exposure. For any period other than the annual period, the applicable maximum allowable increase may be exceeded during one such period per year at any one onshore location.
(ii) If the maximum allowable increases are exceeded, the lessee shall apply whatever additional emission controls are necessary to reduce or offset the remaining emissions of TSP or SO
2
so that concentrations in the onshore ambient air of an attainment or unclassifiable area do not exceed the maximum allowable increases.
(3)(i) The projected emissions of VOC from any facility, except a temporary facility, which significantly affect the onshore air quality of a nonattainment area shall be fully reduced. This shall be done through the application of BACT and, if additional reductions are necessary, through the application of additional emission controls or through the acquisition of offshore or onshore offsets.
(ii) The projected emissions of VOC from any facility which significantly affect the onshore air quality of an attainment area shall be reduced through the application of BACT.
(4)(i) If projected emissions from a facility significantly affect the onshore air quality of both a nonattainment and an attainment or unclassifiable area, the regulatory requirements applicable to projected emissions significantly affecting a nonattainment area shall apply.
(ii) If projected emissions from a facility significantly affect the onshore air quality of more than one class of attainment area, the lessee must reduce projected emissions to meet the maximum allowable increases specified for each class in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section.
(h)
Controls required on temporary facilities.
The lessee must apply BACT to reduce projected emissions of any criteria air pollutant or VOC from a temporary facility that significantly affect the air quality of an onshore area of a State.
(i)
Emission offsets.
When emission offsets are to be obtained, the lessee must demonstrate that the offsets are equivalent in nature and quantity to the projected emissions that must be reduced after the application of BACT; a binding commitment exists between the lessee and the owner or owners of the source or sources; the appropriate air quality control jurisdiction has been notified of the need to revise the State Implementation Plan to include the information regarding the offsets;
and the required offsets come from sources which affect the air quality of the area significantly affected by the lessee's offshore operations.
(j)
Review of facilities with emissions below the emission exemption thresholds.
If, during the review of a new, modified, or revised Exploration Plan, Development and Production Plan, or Development Operations Coordination Document, the Regional Supervisor determines or an affected State submits information to the Regional Supervisor which demonstrates, in the judgment of the Regional Supervisor, that projected emissions from an otherwise exempt facility will, either individually or in combination with other facilities in the area, significantly affect the air quality of an onshore area, then the Regional Supervisor shall require the lessee to submit additional information to determine whether emission control measures are necessary. The lessee shall be given the opportunity to present information to the Regional Supervisor which demonstrates that the exempt facility is not significantly affecting the air quality of an onshore area of the State.
(k)
Emission monitoring requirements.
The lessee shall monitor, in a manner approved or prescribed by the Regional Supervisor, emissions from the facility. The lessee shall submit this information monthly in a manner and form approved or prescribed by the Regional Supervisor.
(l)
Collection of meteorological data.
The Regional Supervisor may require the lessee to collect, for a period of time and in a manner approved or prescribed by the Regional Supervisor, and submit meteorological data from a facility.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 34937, June 5, 2020]
§ 550.304
Existing facilities.
(a)
Process leading to review of an existing facility.
(1) An affected State may request that the Regional Supervisor supply basic emission data from existing facilities when such data are needed for the updating of the State's emission inventory. In submitting the request, the State must demonstrate that similar offshore and onshore facilities in areas under the State's jurisdiction are also included in the emission inventory.
(2) The Regional Supervisor may require lessees of existing facilities to submit basic emission data to a State submitting a request under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) The State submitting a request under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may submit information from its emission inventory which indicates that emissions from existing facilities may be significantly affecting the air quality of the onshore area of the State. The lessee shall be given the opportunity to present information to the Regional Supervisor which demonstrates that the facility is not significantly affecting the air quality of the State.
(4) The Regional Supervisor shall evaluate the information submitted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section and shall determine, based on the basic emission data, available meteorological data, and the distance of the facility or facilities from the onshore area, whether any existing facility has the potential to significantly affect the air quality of the onshore area of the State.
(5) If the Regional Supervisor determines that no existing facility has the potential to significantly affect the air quality of the onshore area of the State submitting information under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Regional Supervisor shall notify the State of and explain the reasons for this finding.
(6) If the Regional Supervisor determines that an existing facility has the potential to significantly affect the air quality of an onshore area of the State submitting information under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Regional Supervisor shall require the lessee to refer to the information requirements under § 550.218 or § 550.249 of this part and submit only that information required to make the necessary findings under paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. The lessee shall submit this information within 120 days of the Regional Supervisor's determination or within a longer period of time at the discretion of the Regional Supervisor.
The lessee shall comply with the requirements of this section as necessary.
(b)
Exemption formulas.
To determine whether an existing facility is exempt from further air quality review, the lessee must use the highest annual-total amount of emissions from the facility calculated for each criteria air pollutant, VOC, and TSP listed in § 550.249(a) or § 550.218(a) and compare these emissions to the emission exemption threshold (EET) calculated using the following formulas: EET = 3400*D
2/3
for carbon monoxide (CO); and EET = 33.3*D for total suspended particulates (TSP), sulfur dioxide (SO
2
), nitrogen oxides (NO
X
), utilizing NO
2
as the indicator pollutant for NO
X
and VOC (where EET is the emission exemption threshold expressed in short tons per year, and D is the distance of the proposed facility from the closest onshore area of a State expressed in statute miles). If the amount of these projected emissions is less than or equal to the emission exemption threshold (EET) for the corresponding criteria air pollutant, VOC, and TSP, the facility is exempt from further air quality review required under paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.
(c)
Significance levels.
For a facility not exempt under paragraph (b) of this section, the lessee must use a BOEM approved air quality model to determine whether the projected emissions from the facility result in an onshore ambient air concentration above any SL set forth in § 550.303(e). In the event that the emissions of TSP exceed the EET for TSP, the lessee must use a BOEM approved air quality model to determine whether the projected emissions from the facility result in an onshore ambient air concentration above the SL for either PM
10
or PM
2.5.
(d)
Significance determinations.
(1) The projected emissions of any criteria air pollutant from any facility that result in an onshore ambient air concentration above an SL determined under paragraph (c) of this section for that criteria air pollutant, will be deemed to significantly affect the air quality of the onshore area for that criteria air pollutant.
(2) The projected emissions of VOC from any facility, which is not exempt under paragraph (b) of this section, will be deemed to significantly affect the air quality of the onshore area for VOC.
(e)
Controls required.
(1) The projected emissions of any criteria air pollutant or VOC that significantly affect the air quality of an onshore area must be reduced through the application of BACT.
(2) The lessee shall submit a compliance schedule for the application of BACT. If it is necessary to cease operations to allow for the installation of emission controls, the lessee may apply for a suspension of operations under the provisions of 30 CFR 250.174.
(f)
Review of facilities with emissions below the emission exemption thresholds.
If, during the review of the information required under paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the Regional Supervisor determines or an affected State submits information to the Regional Supervisor which demonstrates, in the judgment of the Regional Supervisor, that projected emissions from an otherwise exempt facility will, either individually or in combination with other facilities in the area, significantly affect the air quality of an onshore area, then the Regional Supervisor shall require the lessee to submit additional information to determine whether control measures are necessary. The lessee shall be given the opportunity to present information to the Regional Supervisor which demonstrates that the exempt facility is not significantly affecting the air quality of an onshore area of the State.
(g)
Emission monitoring requirements.
The lessee shall monitor, in a manner approved or prescribed by the Regional Supervisor, emissions from the facility following the installation of emission controls. The lessee shall submit this information monthly in a manner and form approved or prescribed by the Regional Supervisor.
(h)
Collection of meteorological data.
The Regional Supervisor may require the lessee to collect, for a period of time and in a manner approved or prescribed by the Regional Supervisor, and submit meteorological data from a facility.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 34937, June 5, 2020]

# Subpart D—Leasing Maps and Diagrams
§ 550.400
Leasing maps and diagrams.
(a) Any area of the OCS, which has been appropriately platted as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, may be leased for any mineral not included in an existing lease issued under the Act or meeting the requirements of subsection (a) of section 6 of the Act. Before any lease is offered or issued an area may be:
(1) Withdrawn from disposition pursuant to section 12(a) of the Act; or
(2) Designated as an area or part of an area restricted from operation under section 12(d) of the Act.
(b) BOEM will prepare leasing maps and official protraction diagrams of areas of the OCS. The areas included in each mineral lease will be in accordance with the appropriate leasing map or official protraction diagram.
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016]
Subparts E-I [Reserved]

# Subpart J—Pipelines and Pipeline Rights-of-Way
§ 550.1011
Financial assurance requirements for pipeline right-of-way (ROW) grant holders.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, when you apply for, attempt to assign, or are the holder of a pipeline right-of-way (ROW) grant, you must furnish and maintain $300,000 of area-wide financial assurance that guarantees compliance with the regulations and the terms and conditions of all the pipeline ROW grants you hold in an OCS area as defined in § 556.900(b) of this subchapter. The requirement to furnish and maintain area-wide financial assurance for a pipeline ROW grant is separate and distinct from the requirement to provide financial assurance for a lease or right-of-use and easement (RUE).
(b) The requirement to furnish and maintain area-wide pipeline ROW financial assurance under paragraph (a) of this section may be satisfied if your operator or a co-grant holder provides such financial assurance in the required amount that guarantees compliance with the regulations and the terms and conditions of the grant.
(c) The requirements for lease financial assurance in §§ 556.900(d) through (g) and 556.902 of this subchapter apply to the area-wide financial assurance required in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) The Regional Director, using the criteria set forth in § 556.901(d)(1) through (3) of this subchapter, will evaluate your financial ability to carry out present and future obligations, and as a result, may require supplemental financial assurance (
i.e.,
above the amount required by paragraph (a) of this section) to ensure compliance with the obligations under your pipeline right-of-way grant.
(e) The supplemental financial assurance required under paragraph (d) of this section must:
(1) Meet the requirements of §§ 556.900(d) through (g) and 556.902 of this subchapter, and
(2) Cover costs and liabilities for compliance with the obligations of your ROW grants and with applicable BOEM and BSEE orders.
(f) If you fail to replace any deficient financial assurance upon demand or fail to provide supplemental financial assurance upon demand, the Regional Director may:
(1) Assess penalties under subpart N of this part;
(2) Request BSEE to suspend operations on your pipeline ROW; and/or
(3) Initiate action for forfeiture of your pipeline ROW grant in accordance with § 250.1013 of this title.
[89 FR 31590, Apr. 24, 2024]

# Subpart K—Oil and Gas Production Requirements.

# Well Tests and Surveys
§ 550.1153
When must I conduct a static bottomhole pressure survey?
(a) You must conduct a static bottomhole pressure survey under the following conditions:
If you have . . .
Then you must conduct . . .
(1) A new producing reservoir,
A static bottomhole pressure survey within 90 days after the date of first continuous production.
(2) A reservoir with three or more producing completions,
Annual static bottomhole pressure surveys in a sufficient number of key wells to establish an average reservoir pressure. The Regional Supervisor may require that bottomhole pressure surveys be performed on specific wells.
(b) Your bottomhole pressure survey must meet the following requirements:
(1) You must shut-in the well for a minimum period of 4 hours to ensure stabilized conditions; and
(2) The bottomhole pressure survey must consist of a pressure measurement at mid-perforation, and pressure measurements and gradient information for at least four gradient stops coming out of the hole.
(c) You must submit to the Regional Supervisor the results of all static bottomhole pressure surveys on Form BOEM-140, Bottomhole Pressure Survey Report, within 60 days after the date of the survey.
(d) The Regional Supervisor may grant a departure from the requirement to run a static bottomhole pressure survey. To request a departure, you must submit a justification, along with Form BOEM-0140, Bottomhole Pressure Survey Report, showing a calculated bottomhole pressure or any measured data.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57096, Sept. 22, 2015]

# Classifying Reservoirs
§ 550.1154
How do I determine if my reservoir is sensitive?
(a) You must determine whether each reservoir is sensitive. You must classify the reservoir as sensitive if:
(1) Under initial conditions it is an oil reservoir with an associated gas cap;
(2) At any time there are near-critical fluids; or
(3) The reservoir is undergoing enhanced recovery.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, near-critical fluids are:
(1) Those fluids that occur in high temperature, high-pressure reservoirs where it is not possible to define the liquid-gas contact; or
(2) Fluids in reservoirs that are near bubble point or dew point conditions.
(c) The Regional Supervisor may reclassify a reservoir when available information warrants reclassification.
(d) If available information indicates that a reservoir previously classified as non-sensitive is now sensitive, you must submit a request to the Regional Supervisor to reclassify the reservoir. You must include supporting information, as listed in the table in § 550.1167, with your request.
(e) If information indicates that a reservoir previously classified as sensitive is now non-sensitive, you may submit a request to the Regional Supervisor to reclassify the reservoir. You must include supporting information, as listed in the table in § 550.1167, with your request.
§ 550.1155
What information must I submit for sensitive reservoirs?
You must submit to the Regional Supervisor an original and two copies of Form BOEM-0127; one of the copies must be a public information copy in accordance with §§ 550.186 and 550.197, and marked “Public Information.” You must also submit two copies of the supporting information, as listed in the table in § 550.1167. You must submit this information:
(a) Within 45 days after beginning production from the reservoir or discovering that it is sensitive;
(b) At least once during the calendar year, but you do not need to resubmit unrevised structure maps (§ 550.1167(a)(2)) or previously submitted well logs (§ 550.1167(c)(1));
(c) Within 45 days after you revise reservoir parameters; and
(d) Within 45 days after the Regional Supervisor classifies the reservoir as sensitive under § 550.1154(c).

# Other Requirements
§ 550.1165
What must I do for enhanced recovery operations?
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Before initiating enhanced recovery operations, you must submit a proposed plan to the BSEE Regional Supervisor and receive approval for pressure maintenance, secondary or tertiary recovery, cycling, and similar recovery operations intended to increase the ultimate recovery of oil and gas from a reservoir. The proposed plan must include, for each project reservoir, a geologic and engineering overview, Form BOEM-0127 (submitted to BOEM) and supporting data as required in § 550.1167, 30 CFR 250.1167, and any additional information required by the BSEE Regional Supervisor.
(c) [Reserved]
§ 550.1166
What additional reporting is required for developments in the Alaska OCS Region?
(a)-(b) [Reserved]
(c) Every time you are required to submit Form BOEM-0127 under § 550.1155, you must request an MER for each producing sensitive reservoir in the Alaska OCS Region, unless otherwise instructed by the Regional Supervisor.
§ 550.1167
What information must I submit with forms and for approvals?
You must submit the supporting information listed in the following table with the form identified in column 1 and for the approval required under this subpart identified in column 2:
SRI BOEM-0127
(2 copies)
Reservoir reclassification
(a) Maps:
(1) Base map with surface, bottomhole, and completion locations with respect to the unit or lease line and the orientation of representative seismic lines or cross-sections
(2) Structure maps with penetration point and subsea depth for each well penetrating the reservoirs, highlighting subject wells; reservoir boundaries; and original and current fluid levels
√
√
(3) Net sand isopach with total net sand penetrated for each well, identified at the penetration point
*
(4) Net hydrocarbon isopach with net feet of pay for each well, identified at the penetration point
*
(b) Seismic data:
(1) Representative seismic lines, including strike and dip lines that confirm the structure; indicate polarity
(2) Amplitude extraction of seismic horizon, if applicable
√
(c) Logs:
(1) Well log sections with tops and bottoms of the reservoir(s) and proposed or existing perforations
√
√
(2) Structural cross-sections showing the subject well and nearby wells
√
(d) Engineering data:
(1) Estimated recoverable reserves for each well completion in the reservoir; total recoverable reserves for each reservoir; method of calculation; reservoir parameters used in volumetric and decline curve analysis
√
(2) Well schematics showing current and proposed conditions
(3) The drive mechanism of each reservoir
√
√
(4) Pressure data, by date, and whether they are estimated or measured
√
(5) Production data and decline curve analysis indicative of the reservoir performance
√
(6) Reservoir simulation with the reservoir parameters used, history matches, and prediction runs (include proposed development scenario)
*
(e) General information:
(1) Detailed economic analysis
(2) Reservoir name and whether or not it is competitive as defined under § 250.105
√
√
(3) Operator name, lessee name(s), block, lease number, royalty rate, and unit number (if applicable) of all relevant leases
(4) Geologic overview of project
√
(5) Explanation of why the proposed completion scenario will maximize ultimate recovery
(6) List of all wells in subject reservoirs that have ever produced or been used for injection
√
√ Required.
* Additional items the Regional Supervisor may request.
Note: All maps must be at a standard scale and show lease and unit lines. The Regional Supervisor may waive submittal of some of the required data on a case-by-case basis.
(f) Depending on the type of approval requested, you must submit the appropriate payment of the service fee(s) listed in § 550.125, according to the instructions in § 550.126.
Subparts L-M [Reserved]

# Subpart N—Outer Continental Shelf Civil Penalties

# Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Civil Penalties
§ 550.1400
How does BOEM begin the civil penalty process?
This subpart explains BOEM's civil penalty procedures whenever a lessee, operator or other person engaged in oil, gas, sulphur or other minerals operations in the OCS has a violation. Whenever BOEM determines, on the basis of available evidence, that a violation occurred and a civil penalty review is appropriate, it will prepare a case file. BOEM will appoint a Reviewing Officer.
§ 550.1401
Index table.
The following table is an index of the sections in this subpart:
(a) Definitions
§ 550.1402
(b) What is the maximum civil penalty?
§ 550.1403
(c) Which violations will BOEM review for potential civil penalties?
§ 550.1404
(d) When is a case file developed?
§ 550.1405
(e) When will BOEM notify me and provide penalty information?
§ 550.1406
(f) How do I respond to the letter of notification?
§ 550.1407
(g) When will I be notified of the Reviewing Officer's decision?
§ 550.1408
(h) What are my appeal rights?
§ 550.1409
§ 550.1402
Definitions.
Terms used in this subpart have the following meaning:
Case file
means a BOEM document file containing information and the record of evidence related to the alleged violation.
Civil penalty
means a fine. It is a BOEM regulatory enforcement tool used in addition to Notices of Incidents of Noncompliance and directed suspensions of production or other operations.
Reviewing Officer
means a BOEM employee assigned to review case files and assess civil penalties.
Violation
means failure to comply with the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA) or any other applicable laws, with any regulations issued under the OCSLA, or with the terms or provisions of leases, licenses, permits, rights-of-way, or other approvals issued under the OCSLA.
Violator
means a person responsible for a violation.
§ 550.1403
What is the maximum civil penalty?
The maximum civil penalty is $55,764 per day per violation.
[90 FR 2614, Jan. 13, 2025]
§ 550.1404
Which violations will BOEM review for potential civil penalties?
BOEM will review each of the following violations for potential civil penalties:
(a) Violations that you do not correct within the period BOEM grants;
(b)-(c) [Reserved]
(d) Violations of the oil spill financial responsibility requirements at 30 CFR part 553.
§ 550.1405
When is a case file developed?
BOEM will develop a case file during its investigation of the violation, and forward it to a Reviewing Officer if any of the conditions in § 550.1404 exist. The Reviewing Officer will review the case file and determine if a civil penalty is appropriate. The Reviewing Officer may administer oaths and issue subpoenas requiring witnesses to attend meetings, submit depositions, or produce evidence.
§ 550.1406
When will BOEM notify me and provide penalty information?
If the Reviewing Officer determines that a civil penalty should be assessed, the Reviewing Officer will send the violator a letter of notification. The letter of notification will include:
(a) The amount of the proposed civil penalty;
(b) Information on the violation(s); and
(c) Instruction on how to obtain a copy of the case file, schedule a meeting, submit information, or pay the penalty.
§ 550.1407
How do I respond to the letter of notification?
You have 30 calendar days after you receive the Reviewing Officer's letter to either:
(a) Request, in writing, a meeting with the Reviewing Officer;
(b) Submit additional information; or
(c) Pay the proposed civil penalty.
§ 550.1408
When will I be notified of the Reviewing Officer's decision?
At the end of the 30 calendar days or after the meeting and submittal of additional information, the Reviewing Officer will review the case file, including all information you submitted, and send you a decision. The decision will include the amount of any final civil penalty, the basis for the civil penalty, and instructions for paying or appealing the civil penalty.
§ 550.1409
What are my appeal rights?
(a) When you receive the Reviewing Officer's final decision, you have 60 days to either pay the penalty or file an appeal in accordance with 30 CFR part 590, subpart A.
(b) If you file an appeal, you must either:
(1) Submit a surety bond in the amount of the penalty to the appropriate Leasing Office in the Region where the penalty was assessed, following instructions that the Reviewing Officer will include in the final decision; or
(2) Notify the appropriate Leasing Office, in the Region where the penalty was assessed, that you want your lease-specific/area-wide bond on file to be used as the bond for the penalty amount.
(c) If you choose the alternative in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the BOEM Regional Director may require additional security (
i.e.,
security in excess of your existing bond) to ensure sufficient coverage during an appeal. In that event, the Regional Director will require you to post the supplemental bond with the regional office in the same manner as under § 556.53(d) through (f) of this chapter. If the Regional Director determines the appeal should be covered by a lease-specific abandonment account then you must establish an account that meets the requirements of § 556.56.
(d) If you do not either pay the penalty or file a timely appeal, BOEM will take one or more of the following actions:
(1) We will collect the amount you were assessed, plus interest, late payment charges, and other fees as provided by law, from the date you received the Reviewing Officer's final decision until the date we receive payment;
(2) We may initiate additional enforcement, including, if appropriate, cancellation of the lease, right-of-way, license, permit, or approval, or the forfeiture of a bond under this part; or
(3) We may bar you from doing further business with the Federal Government according to Executive Orders 12549 and 12689, and section 2455 of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994, 31 U.S.C. 6101. The Department of the Interior's regulations implementing these authorities are found at 43 CFR part 12, subpart D.

# Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act Civil Penalties Definitions
§ 550.1450
What definitions apply to this subpart?
The terms used in this subpart have the same meaning as in 30 U.S.C. 1702.

# Penalties After a Period to Correct
§ 550.1451
What may BOEM do if I violate a statute, regulation, order, or lease term relating to a Federal oil and gas lease?
(a) If we believe that you have not followed any requirement of a statute, regulation, order, or lease term for any Federal oil or gas lease, we may send you a Notice of Noncompliance informing you what the violation is and what you need to do to correct it to avoid civil penalties under 30 U.S.C. 1719(a) and (b).
(b) We will serve the Notice of Noncompliance by registered mail or personal service using the most current address on file as maintained by the BOEM Leasing Office in your respective Region.
§ 550.1452
What if I correct the violation?
The matter will be closed if you correct all of the violations identified in the Notice of Noncompliance within 20 days after you receive the Notice (or within a longer time period specified in the Notice).
§ 550.1453
What if I do not correct the violation?
(a) We may send you a Notice of Civil Penalty if you do not correct all of the violations identified in the Notice of Noncompliance within 20 days after you receive the Notice of Noncompliance (or within a longer time period specified in that Notice). The Notice of Civil Penalty will tell you how much penalty you must pay for each day, beginning with the date of the Notice of Noncompliance, for each violation identified in the Notice of Noncompliance for as long as you do not correct the violation. The maximum civil penalty amount for each day for each uncorrected violation is as specified in 30 CFR 1241.52(a)(2).
(b) If you do not correct all of the violations identified in the Notice of Noncompliance within 40 days after you receive the Notice of Noncompliance (or 20 days following the expiration of a longer time period specified in that Notice), we may increase the penalty for each day, beginning with the date of the Notice of Noncompliance, for each violation for as long as you do not correct the violation. The maximum civil penalty amount for each day for each uncorrected violation is as specified in 30 CFR 1241.52(b).
[86 FR 38559, July 22, 2021]
§ 550.1454
How may I request a hearing on the record on a Notice of Noncompliance?
You may request a hearing on the record on a Notice of Noncompliance by filing a request within 30 days of the date you received the Notice of Noncompliance with the Hearings Division (Departmental), Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior, 351 South West Temple, Suite 6.300, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. You may do this regardless of whether you correct the violations identified in the Notice of Noncompliance.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57096, Sept. 22, 2015]
§ 550.1455
Does my request for a hearing on the record affect the penalties?
(a) If you do not correct the violations identified in the Notice of Noncompliance, the penalties will continue to accrue even if you request a hearing on the record.
(b) You may petition the Hearings Division (Departmental) of the Office of Hearings and Appeals, to stay the accrual of penalties pending the hearing on the record and a decision by the Administrative Law Judge under § 550.1472.
(1) You must file your petition within 45 calendar days of receiving the Notice of Noncompliance.
(2) To stay the accrual of penalties, you must post a bond or other surety instrument, or demonstrate financial solvency, using the standards and requirements as prescribed in §§ 550.1490 through 550.1497, for the principal amount of any unpaid amounts due
that are the subject of the Notice of Noncompliance, including interest thereon, plus the amount of any penalties accrued before the date a stay becomes effective.
(3) The Hearings Division will grant or deny the petition under 43 CFR 4.21(b).
§ 550.1456
May I request a hearing on the record regarding the amount of a civil penalty if I did not request a hearing on the Notice of Noncompliance?
(a) You may request a hearing on the record to challenge only the amount of a civil penalty when you receive a Notice of Civil Penalty, if you did not previously request a hearing on the record under § 550.1454. If you did not request a hearing on the record on the Notice of Noncompliance under § 550.1454, you may not contest your underlying liability for civil penalties.
(b) You must file your request within 10 days after you receive the Notice of Civil Penalty with the Hearings Division (Departmental), Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior, 351 South West Temple, Suite 6.300, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57096, Sept. 22, 2015]

# Penalties Without a Period to Correct
§ 550.1460
May I be subject to penalties without prior notice and an opportunity to correct?
The Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act sets out several specific violations for which penalties accrue without an opportunity to first correct the violation.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Under 30 U.S.C. 1719(d), you may be subject to civil penalties up to the maximum amount specified in 30 CFR 1241.60(b)(2) for each violation for each day that it continues if you:
(1) Knowingly or willfully prepare, maintain, or submit false, inaccurate, or misleading reports, notices, affidavits, records, data, or other written information.
(2) [Reserved]
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 86 FR 38559, July 22, 2021]
§ 550.1461
How will BOEM inform me of violations without a period to correct?
We will inform you of any violation, without a period to correct, by issuing a Notice of Noncompliance and Civil Penalty explaining the violation, how to correct it, and the penalty assessment. We will serve the Notice of Noncompliance and Civil Penalty by registered mail or personal service using your address of record as specified under 30 CFR part 1218, subpart H.
§ 550.1462
How may I request a hearing on the record on a Notice of Noncompliance regarding violations without a period to correct?
You may request a hearing on the record of a Notice of Noncompliance regarding violations without a period to correct by filing a request within 30 days after you receive the Notice of Noncompliance with the Hearings Division (Departmental), Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior, 351 South West Temple, Suite 6.300, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. You may do this regardless of whether you correct the violations identified in the Notice of Noncompliance.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57096, Sept. 22, 2015]
§ 550.1463
Does my request for a hearing on the record affect the penalties?
(a) If you do not correct the violations identified in the Notice of Noncompliance regarding violations without a period to correct, the penalties will continue to accrue even if you request a hearing on the record.
(b) You may ask the Hearings Division (Departmental) to stay the accrual of penalties pending the hearing on the record and a decision by the Administrative Law Judge under § 550.1472.
(1) You must file your petition within 45 calendar days after you receive the Notice of Noncompliance.
(2) To stay the accrual of penalties, you must post a bond or other surety instrument, or demonstrate financial solvency, using the standards and requirements as prescribed in §§ 550.1490 through 550.1497, for the principal amount of any unpaid amounts due
that are the subject of the Notice of Noncompliance, including interest thereon, plus the amount of any penalties accrued before the date a stay becomes effective.
(3) The Hearings Division will grant or deny the petition under 43 CFR 4.21(b).
§ 550.1464
May I request a hearing on the record regarding the amount of a civil penalty if I did not request a hearing on the Notice of Noncompliance?
(a) You may request a hearing on the record to challenge only the amount of a civil penalty when you receive a Notice of Civil Penalty regarding violations without a period to correct, if you did not previously request a hearing on the record under § 550.1462. If you did not request a hearing on the record on the Notice of Noncompliance under § 550.1462, you may not contest your underlying liability for civil penalties.
(b) You must file your request within 10 days after you receive Notice of Civil Penalty with the Hearings Division (Departmental), Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior, 351 South West Temple, Suite 6.300, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57096, Sept. 22, 2015]

# General Provisions
§ 550.1470
How does BOEM decide what the amount of the penalty should be?
We determine the amount of the penalty by considering the severity of the violations, your history of compliance, and if you are a small business.
§ 550.1471
Does the penalty affect whether I owe interest?
If you do not pay the penalty by the date required under § 550.1475(d), BOEM will assess you late payment interest on the penalty amount at the same rate interest is assessed under 30 CFR 1218.54.
§ 550.1472
How will the Office of Hearings and Appeals conduct the hearing on the record?
If you request a hearing on the record under § 550.1454, § 550.1456, § 550.1462, or § 550.1464, the hearing will be conducted by a Departmental Administrative Law Judge from the Office of Hearings and Appeals. After the hearing, the Administrative Law Judge will issue a decision in accordance with the evidence presented and applicable law.
§ 550.1473
How may I appeal the Administrative Law Judge's decision?
If you are adversely affected by the Administrative Law Judge's decision, you may appeal that decision to the Interior Board of Land Appeals under 43 CFR part 4, subpart E.
§ 550.1474
May I seek judicial review of the decision of the Interior Board of Land Appeals?
Under 30 U.S.C. 1719(j), you may seek judicial review of the decision of the Interior Board of Land Appeals. A suit for judicial review in the District Court will be barred unless filed within 90 days after the final order.
§ 550.1475
When must I pay the penalty?
(a) You must pay the amount of the Notice of Civil Penalty issued under § 550.1453 or § 550.1461, if you do not request a hearing on the record under § 550.1454, § 550.1456, § 550.1462, or § 550.1464.
(b) If you request a hearing on the record under § 550.1454, § 550.1456, § 550.1462, or § 550.1464, but you do not appeal the determination of the Administrative Law Judge to the Interior Board of Land Appeals under § 550.1473, you must pay the amount assessed by the Administrative Law Judge.
(c) If you appeal the determination of the Administrative Law Judge to the Interior Board of Land Appeals, you must pay the amount assessed in the IBLA decision.
(d) You must pay the penalty assessed within 40 days after:
(1) You received the Notice of Civil Penalty, if you did not request a hearing on the record under either § 550.1454, § 550.1456, § 550.1462, or § 550.1464;
(2) You received an Administrative Law Judge's decision under § 550.1472, if you obtained a stay of the accrual of penalties pending the hearing on the record under § 550.1455(b) or § 550.1463(b) and did not appeal the Administrative
Law Judge's determination to the IBLA under § 550.1473;
(3) You received an IBLA decision under § 550.1473 if the IBLA continued the stay of accrual of penalties pending its decision and you did not seek judicial review of the IBLA's decision; or
(4) A final non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction is entered, if you sought judicial review of the IBLA's decision and the Department or the appropriate court suspended compliance with the IBLA's decision pending the adjudication of the case.
(e) If you do not pay, that amount is subject to collection under the provisions of § 550.1477.
§ 550.1476
Can BOEM reduce my penalty once it is assessed?
Under 30 U.S.C. 1719(g), the Director or his or her delegate may compromise or reduce civil penalties assessed under this part.
§ 550.1477
How may BOEM collect the penalty?
(a) BOEM may use all available means to collect the penalty including, but not limited to:
(1) Requiring the lease surety, for amounts owed by lessees, to pay the penalty;
(2) Deducting the amount of the penalty from any sums the United States owes to you; and
(3) Using judicial process to compel your payment under 30 U.S.C. 1719(k).
(b) If the Department uses judicial process, or if you seek judicial review under § 550.1474 and the court upholds assessment of a penalty, the court shall have jurisdiction to award the amount assessed plus interest assessed from the date of the expiration of the 90-day period referred to in § 550.1474. The amount of any penalty, as finally determined, may be deducted from any sum owing to you by the United States.

# Criminal Penalties
§ 550.1480
May the United States criminally prosecute me for violations under Federal oil and gas leases?
If you commit an act for which a civil penalty is provided at 30 U.S.C. 1719(d) and § 550.1460(b), the United States may pursue criminal penalties as provided at 30 U.S.C. 1720, in addition to any authority for prosecution under other statutes.

# Bonding Requirements
§ 550.1490
What standards must my BOEM-specified surety instrument meet?
(a) A BOEM-specified surety instrument must be in a form specified in BOEM instructions. BOEM will give you written information and standard forms for BOEM-specified surety instrument requirements.
(b) BOEM will use a bank-rating service to determine whether a financial institution has an acceptable rating to provide a surety instrument adequate to indemnify the lessor from loss or damage.
(1) Administrative appeal bonds must be issued by a qualified surety company which the Department of the Treasury has approved.
(2) Irrevocable letters of credit or certificates of deposit must be from a financial institution acceptable to BOEM with a minimum 1-year period of coverage subject to automatic renewal up to 5 years.
§ 550.1491
How will BOEM determine the amount of my bond or other surety instrument?
(a) BOEM bond-approving officer may approve your surety if he or she determines that the amount is adequate to guarantee payment. The amount of your surety may vary depending on the form of the surety and how long the surety is effective.
(1) The amount of the BOEM-specified surety instrument must include the principal amount owed under the Notice of Noncompliance or Notice of Civil Penalty plus any accrued interest we determine is owed plus projected interest for a 1-year period.
(2) Treasury book-entry bond or note amounts must be equal to at least 120 percent of the required surety amount.
(b) If your appeal is not decided within 1 year from the filing date, you must increase the surety amount to cover additional estimated interest for another 1-year period. You must continue to do this annually on the date your appeal was filed. We will determine the
additional estimated interest and notify you of the amount so you can amend your surety instrument.
(c) You may submit a single surety instrument that covers multiple appeals. You may change the instrument to add new amounts under appeal or remove amounts that have been adjudicated in your favor or that you have paid, if you:
(1) Amend the single surety instrument annually on the date you filed your first appeal; and
(2) Submit a separate surety instrument for new amounts under appeal until you amend the instrument to cover the new appeals.

# Financial Solvency Requirements
§ 550.1495
How do I demonstrate financial solvency?
(a) To demonstrate financial solvency under this part, you must submit an audited consolidated balance sheet, and, if requested by the BOEM bond-approving officer, up to 3 years of tax returns to BOEM using the U.S. Postal Service, private delivery, courier, or overnight delivery at:
(1) For Alaska OCS: BOEM Alaska OCS Region, 3801 Centerpoint Drive, Suite 500, Anchorage, AK 99503, (907) 334-5200.
(2) For Gulf of America and Atlantic OCS: BOEM Gulf of America OCS Region, 1201 Elmwood Park Boulevard, New Orleans, LA 70123-2394, (800) 200-4853.
(3) For Pacific OCS: BOEM Pacific OCS Region, 760 Paseo Camarillo, Suite 102 (CM 102), Camarillo, CA 93010, (805) 384-6305.
(b) You must submit an audited consolidated balance sheet annually, and, if requested, additional annual tax returns on the date BOEM first determined that you demonstrated financial solvency as long as you have active appeals, or whenever BOEM requests.
(c) If you demonstrate financial solvency in the current calendar year, you are not required to redemonstrate financial solvency for new appeals of orders during that calendar year unless you file for protection under any provision of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Title 11 of the United States Code), or BOEM notifies you that you must redemonstrate financial solvency.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57096, Sept. 22, 2015]
§ 550.1496
How will BOEM determine if I am financially solvent?
(a) BOEM bond-approving officer will determine your financial solvency by examining your total net worth, including, as appropriate, the net worth of your affiliated entities.
(b) If your net worth, minus the amount we would require as surety under §§ 550.1490 and 550.1491 for all orders you have appealed is greater than $300 million, you are presumptively deemed financially solvent, and we will not require you to post a bond or other surety instrument.
(c) If your net worth, minus the amount we would require as surety under §§ 550.1490 and 550.1491 for all orders you have appealed is less than $300 million, you must submit the following to BOEM by one of the methods in § 550.1495(a):
(1) A written request asking us to consult a business-information, or credit-reporting service or program to determine your financial solvency; and
(2) A nonrefundable $50 processing fee:
(i) You must pay the processing fee to us following the requirements for making payments found in 30 CFR 550.126. You are required to use Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) for these payments;
(ii) You must submit the fee with your request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and then annually on the date we first determined that you demonstrated financial solvency, as long as you are not able to demonstrate financial solvency under paragraph (a) of this section and you have active appeals.
(d) If you request that we consult a business-information or credit-reporting service or program under paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) We will use criteria similar to that which a potential creditor would use to lend an amount equal to the bond or other surety instrument we would require under §§ 550.1490 and 550.1491;
(2) For us to consider you financially solvent, the business-information or credit-reporting service or program must demonstrate your degree of risk as low to moderate:
(i) If our bond-approving officer determines that the business-information or credit-reporting service or program information demonstrates your financial solvency to our satisfaction, our bond-approving officer will not require you to post a bond or other surety instrument under §§ 550.1490 and 550.1491;
(ii) If our bond-approving officer determines that the business-information or credit-reporting service or program information does not demonstrate your financial solvency to our satisfaction, our bond-approving officer will require you to post a bond or other surety instrument under §§ 550.1490 and 550.1491 or pay the obligation.
§ 550.1497
When will BOEM monitor my financial solvency?
(a) If you are presumptively financially solvent under § 550.1496(b), BOEM will determine your net worth as described under §§ 550.1496(b) and (c) to evaluate your financial solvency at least annually on the date we first determined that you demonstrated financial solvency as long as you have active appeals and each time you appeal a new order.
(b) If you ask us to consult a business-information or credit-reporting service or program under § 550.1496(c), we will consult a service or program annually as long as you have active appeals and each time you appeal a new order.
(c) If our bond-approving officer determines that you are no longer financially solvent, you must post a bond or other BOEM-specified surety instrument under §§ 550.1490 and 550.1491.
Subparts O-S [Reserved]
Pt. 551

# PART 551—GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL (G

# G) EXPLORATIONS OF THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
Sec.
551.1
Definitions.
551.2
Purpose of this part.
551.3
Authority and applicability of this part.
551.4
Types of G
G activities that require permits or Notices.
551.5
Applying for permits or filing Notices.
551.6
Obligations and rights under a permit or a Notice.
551.7
Test drilling activities under a permit.
551.8
Inspection and reporting requirements for activities under a permit.
551.9
Temporarily stopping, canceling, or relinquishing activities approved under a permit.
551.10
Penalties and appeals.
551.11
Submission, inspection, and selection of geological data and information collected under a permit and processed by permittees or third parties.
551.12
Submission, inspection, and selection of geophysical data and information collected under a permit and processed by permittees or third parties.
551.13
Reimbursement for the costs of reproducing data and information and certain processing costs.
551.14
Protecting and disclosing data and information submitted to BOEM under a permit.
551.15
Authority for information collection.

# Authority:
Section 104, Public Law 97-451, 96 Stat. 2451 (30 U.S.C. 1714), Public Law 109-432, Div C, Title I, 120 Stat. 3000; 30 U.S.C. 1751; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 43 U.S.C. 1334; 33 U.S.C. 2704, 2716; E.O. 12777, as amended; 43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.,
43 U.S.C. 1337.

# Source:
76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 551.1
Definitions.
Terms used in this part have the following meaning:
Act
means the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA), as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
).
Analyzed geological information
means data collected under a permit or a lease that have been analyzed. Analysis may include, but is not limited to, identification of lithologic and fossil content, core analyses, laboratory analyses of physical and chemical properties, well logs or charts, results from formation fluid tests, and descriptions of hydrocarbon occurrences or hazardous conditions.
Archaeological interest
means capable of providing scientific or humanistic understanding of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics through the application of scientific or
scholarly techniques, such as controlled observation, contextual measurements, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation, and explanation.
Archaeological resources
mean any material remains of human life or activities that are at least 50 years of age and of archaeological interest.
Coastal environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the terrestrial ecosystem from the shoreline inward to the boundaries of the coastal zone.
Coastal Zone
means the coastal waters (including the lands therein and thereunder) and the adjacent shorelands (including the waters therein and thereunder), strongly influenced by each other and in proximity to the shorelines of the several coastal States and extends seaward to the outer limit of the U.S. territorial sea.
Coastal Zone Management Act
means the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
).
Data
means facts, statistics, measurements, or samples that have not been analyzed, processed, or interpreted.
Deep stratigraphic test
means drilling that involves the penetration into the sea bottom of more than 500 feet (152 meters).
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, U.S. Department of the Interior, or a subordinate authorized to act on the Director's behalf.
Exploration
means the commercial search for oil, gas, and sulphur. Activities classified as exploration include, but are not limited to:
(1) Geological and geophysical marine and airborne surveys where magnetic, gravity, seismic reflection, seismic refraction, gas sniffers, coring, or other systems are used to detect or imply the presence of oil, gas, or sulphur; and
(2) Any drilling, whether on or off a geological structure.
Geological and geophysical scientific research
means any oil, gas, or sulphur related investigation conducted in the OCS for scientific and/or research purposes. Geological, geophysical, and geochemical data and information gathered and analyzed are made available to the public for inspection and reproduction at the earliest practicable time. The term does not include commercial geological or geophysical exploration or research.
Geological exploration
means exploration that uses geological and geochemical techniques (e.g., coring and test drilling, well logging, and bottom sampling) to produce data and information on oil, gas, and sulphur resources in support of possible exploration and development activities. The term does not include geological scientific research.
Geological information
means geological or geochemical data that have been analyzed, processed, or interpreted.
Geophysical data
means measurements that have not been processed or interpreted.
Geophysical exploration
means exploration that utilizes geophysical techniques (e.g., gravity, magnetic, electromagnetic, or seismic) to produce data and information on oil, gas, and sulphur resources in support of possible exploration and development activities. The term does not include geophysical scientific research.
Geophysical information
means geophysical data that have been processed or interpreted.
Governor
means the Governor of a State or the person or entity lawfully designated to exercise the powers granted to a Governor pursuant to the Act.
Human environment
means the physical, social, and economic components, conditions, and factors which interactively determine the state, condition, and quality of living conditions, employment, and health of those affected, directly or indirectly, by activities occurring on the OCS.
Hydrocarbon occurrence
means the direct or indirect detection during drilling operations of any liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons by examination of well cuttings, cores, gas detector readings, formation fluid tests, wireline logs, or by any other means. The term does not include background gas, minor accumulations of gas, or heavy oil residues on cuttings and cores.
Interpreted geological information
means knowledge, often in the form of schematic cross sections, 3-dimensional representations, and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of geological data and analyzed and processed geologic information.
Interpreted geophysical information
means knowledge, often in the form of seismic cross sections, 3-dimensional representations, and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of geophysical data and processed geophysical information.
Lease
means an agreement which is issued under section 8 or maintained under section 6 of the Act and which authorizes exploration for, and development and production of, minerals or the area covered by that authorization, whichever is required by the context.
Lessee
means a person who has entered into, or is the BOEM approved assignee of, a lease with the United States to explore for, develop, and produce the leased minerals. The term “lessee” also includes an owner of operating rights.
Marine environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the quality of the marine ecosystem in the coastal zone and in the OCS.
Material remains
mean physical evidence of human habitation, occupation, use, or activity, including the site, location, or context in which such evidence is situated.
Minerals
mean oil, gas, sulphur, geopressured-geothermal and associated resources, and all other minerals which are authorized by an Act of Congress to be produced from public lands as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).
Notice
means a written statement of intent to conduct geological or geophysical scientific research related to oil, gas, and sulphur in the OCS other than under a permit.
Oil, gas, and sulphur
means oil, gas, sulphur, geopressured-geothermal, and associated resources.
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)
means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301), and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Permit
means the contract or agreement, other than a lease, issued pursuant to this part, under which a person acquires the right to conduct on the OCS, in accordance with appropriate statutes, regulations, and stipulations:
(1) Geological exploration for mineral resources;
(2) Geophysical exploration for mineral resources;
(3) Geological scientific research; or
(4) Geophysical scientific research.
Permittee
means the person authorized by a permit issued pursuant to this part to conduct activities on the OCS.
Person
means a citizen or national of the United States; an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States as defined in section 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20); a private, public, or municipal corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any State or territory thereof; and associations of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens, or private, public, or municipal corporations, States, or political subdivisions of States or anyone operating in a manner provided for by treaty or other applicable international agreements. The term does not include Federal agencies.
Processed geological or geophysical information
means data collected under a permit and later processed or reprocessed. Processing involves changing the form of data so as to facilitate interpretation. Processing operations may include, but are not limited to, applying corrections for known perturbing causes, rearranging or filtering data, and combining or transforming data elements. Reprocessing is the additional processing other than ordinary processing used in the general course of evaluation. Reprocessing operations may include varying identified parameters for the detailed study of a specific problem area. Reprocessing may occur several years after the original processing date. Reprocessing is determined to be completed on the date that the
reprocessed information is first available in a useable format for in-house interpretation by BOEM or the permittee, or becomes first available to third parties via sale, trade, license agreement, or other means.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or a subordinate authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.
Shallow test drilling
means drilling into the sea bottom to depths less than those specified in the definition of a deep stratigraphic test.
Significant archaeological resource
means those archaeological resources that meet the criteria of significance for eligibility to the National Register of Historic Places as defined in 36 CFR 60.4.
Third Party
means any person other than the permittee or a representative of the United States, including all persons who obtain data or information acquired under a permit from the permittee, or from another third party, by sale, trade, license agreement, or other means.
Violation
means a failure to comply with any provision of the Act, or a provision of a regulation or order issued under the Act, or any provision of a lease, license, or permit issued under the Act.
You
means a person who applies for and/or obtains a permit, or files a Notice to conduct geological or geophysical exploration or scientific research related to oil, gas, and sulphur in the OCS.
§ 551.2
Purpose of this part.
(a) To allow you to conduct G
G activities in the OCS related to oil, gas, and sulphur on unleased lands or on lands under lease to a third party.
(b) To ensure that you carry out G
G activities in a safe and environmentally sound manner so as to prevent harm or damage to, or waste of, any natural resources (including any mineral deposit in areas leased or not leased), any life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment.
(c) To inform you and third parties of your legal and contractual obligations.
(d) To inform you and third parties of the U.S. Government's rights to access G
G data and information collected under permit in the OCS, reimbursement for submittal of data and information, and the proprietary terms of data and information submitted to, and retained by, BOEM.
§ 551.3
Authority and applicability of this part.
BOEM authorizes you to conduct exploration or scientific research activities under this part in accordance with the Act, the regulations in this part, orders of the Director/Regional Director, and other applicable statutes, regulations, and amendments.
(a) This part does not apply to G
G exploration conducted by or on behalf of the lessee on a lease in the OCS. Refer to 30 CFR part 250 if you plan to conduct G
G activities related to oil, gas, or sulphur under terms of a lease.
(b) Federal agencies are exempt from the regulations in this part.
(c) G
G exploration or G
G scientific research related to minerals other than oil, gas, and sulphur is covered by regulations at 30 CFR part 580.
§ 551.4
Types of G
G activities that require permits or Notices.
(a)
Exploration.
You must have a BOEM-approved permit to conduct G
G exploration, including deep stratigraphic tests, for oil, gas, or sulphur resources. If you conduct both geological and geophysical exploration, you must have a separate permit for each.
(b)
Scientific research.
You may only conduct G
G scientific research related to oil, gas, and sulphur in the OCS after you obtain a BOEM-approved permit or file a Notice.
(1)
Permit.
You must obtain a permit if the research activities you propose to conduct involve:
(i) Using solid or liquid explosives;
(ii) Drilling a deep stratigraphic test; or
(iii) Developing data and information for proprietary use or sale.
(2)
Notice.
Any other G
G scientific research that you conduct related to oil, gas, and sulphur in the OCS requires you to file a Notice with the Regional Director at least 30 days before you begin. If circumstances preclude a 30-day Notice, you must provide oral notification and followup in writing.
You must also inform BOEM in writing when you conclude your work.
§ 551.5
Applying for permits or filing Notices.
(a)
Permits.
You must submit a signed original and three copies of the BOEM permit application form (Form BOEM-0327). The form includes names of persons; the type, location, purpose, and dates of activity; and environmental and other information. A nonrefundable service fee of $2,012 must be paid electronically through
Pay.gov
at:
https://www.pay.gov/paygov/,
and you must include a copy of the
Pay.gov
confirmation receipt page with your application.
(b)
Disapproval of permit application.
If BOEM disapproves your application for a permit, the Regional Director will state the reasons for the denial and will advise you of the changes needed to obtain approval.
(c)
Notices.
You must sign and date a Notice and state:
(1) The name(s) of the person(s) who will conduct the proposed research;
(2) The name(s) of any other person(s) participating in the proposed research, including the sponsor;
(3) The type of research and a brief description of how you will conduct it;
(4) The location in the OCS, indicated on a map, plat, or chart, where you will conduct research;
(5) The proposed dates you project for your research activity to start and end;
(6) The name, registry number, registered owner, and port of registry of vessels used in the operation;
(7) The earliest practicable time you expect to make the data and information resulting from your research activity available to the public;
(8) Your plan of how you will make the data and information you collected available to the public;
(9) That you and others involved will not sell or withhold for exclusive use the data and information resulting from your research; and
(10) At your option, you may submit (as a substitute for the material required in paragraphs (c)(7), (c)(8), and (c)(9) of this section) the nonexclusive use agreement for scientific research attachment to Form BOEM-0327.
(d)
Filing locations.
You must apply for a permit or file a Notice at one of the following locations:
(1) For the OCS off the State of Alaska—the Regional Supervisor for Resource Evaluation, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Alaska OCS Region, 3801 Centerpoint Drive, Suite 500, Anchorage, Alaska 99503.
(2) For the OCS off the Atlantic Coast and in the Gulf of America—the Regional Supervisor for Resource Evaluation, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Gulf of America OCS Region, 1201 Elmwood Park Boulevard, New Orleans, Louisiana 70123-2394.
(3) For the OCS off the coast of the States of California, Oregon, Washington, or Hawaii—the Regional Supervisor for Resource Evaluation, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Pacific OCS Region, 760 Paseo Camarillo, Suite 102 (CM 102), Camarillo, California 93010.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57096, Sept. 22, 2015; 90 FR 24071, June 6, 2025]
§ 551.6
Obligations and rights under a permit or a Notice.
While conducting G
G exploration or scientific research activities under BOEM permit or Notice:
(a) You must not:
(1) Interfere with or endanger operations under any lease, right-of-way, easement, right-of-use, Notice, or permit issued or maintained under the Act;
(2) Cause harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, or to the marine, coastal, or human environment;
(3) Cause harm or damage to any mineral resource (in areas leased or not leased);
(4) Cause pollution;
(5) Disturb archaeological resources;
(6) Create hazardous or unsafe conditions; or
(7) Unreasonably interfere with or cause harm to other uses of the area.
(b) You must immediately report to the Regional Director if you:
(1) Detect hydrocarbon occurrences;
(2) Detect environmental hazards which imminently threaten life and property; or
(3) Adversely affect the environment, aquatic life, archaeological resources, or other uses of the area where you are conducting exploration or scientific research activities.
(c) You must also consult and coordinate your G
G activities with other users of the area for navigation and safety purposes.
(d) Any persons conducting shallow test drilling or deep stratigraphic test drilling activities under a permit must use the best available and safest technologies that the Regional Director determines to be economically feasible.
(e) You may not claim any oil, gas, sulphur, or other minerals you discover while conducting operations under a permit or Notice.
§ 551.7
Test drilling activities under a permit.
(a)
Shallow test drilling.
Before you begin shallow test drilling under a permit, the Regional Director may require you to:
(1) Gather and submit seismic, bathymetric, sidescan sonar, magnetometer, or other geophysical data and information to determine shallow structural detail across and in the vicinity of the proposed test.
(2) Submit information for coastal zone consistency certification according to paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section, and for protecting archaeological resources according to paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(3) Allow all interested parties the opportunity to participate in the shallow test according to paragraph (c) of this section, and meet bonding requirements according to paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Deep stratigraphic tests.
You must submit to the appropriate BOEM or BSEE Regional Director, at the address in § 551.7(d), a drilling plan (submitted to BOEM), an environmental report (submitted to BOEM), an Application for Permit to Drill (Form BSEE-0123) (submitted to BSEE), and a Supplemental APD Information Sheet (Form BSEE-0123S) (submitted to BSEE) as follows:
(1
) Drilling plan.
The drilling plan must include:
(i) The proposed type, sequence, and timetable of drilling activities;
(ii) A description of your drilling rig, indicating the important features with special attention to safety, pollution prevention, oil-spill containment and cleanup plans, and onshore disposal procedures;
(iii) The location of each deep stratigraphic test you will conduct, including the location of the surface and projected bottomhole of the borehole;
(iv) The types of geological and geophysical survey instruments you will use before and during drilling;
(v) Seismic, bathymetric, sidescan sonar, magnetometer, or other geophysical data and information sufficient to evaluate seafloor characteristics, shallow geologic hazards, and structural detail across and in the vicinity of the proposed test to the total depth of the proposed test well; and
(vi) Other relevant data and information that the BOEM Regional Director requires.
(2)
Environmental report.
The environmental report must include all of the following material:
(i) A summary with data and information available at the time you submitted the related drilling plan. BOEM will consider site-specific data and information developed since the most recent environmental impact statement or other environmental impact analysis in the immediate area. The summary must meet the following requirements:
(A) You must concentrate on the issues specific to the site(s) of drilling activity. However, you only need to summarize data and information discussed in any environmental reports, analyses, or impact statements prepared for the geographic area of the drilling activity.
(B) You must list referenced material. Include brief descriptions and a statement of where the material is available for inspection.
(C) You must refer only to data that are available to BOEM.
(ii) Details about your project such as:
(A) A list and description of new or unusual technologies;
(B) The location of travel routes for supplies and personnel;
(C) The kinds and approximate levels of energy sources;
(D) The environmental monitoring systems; and
(E) Suitable maps and diagrams showing details of the proposed project layout.
(iii) A description of the existing environment. For this section, you must include the following information on the area:
(A) Geology;
(B) Physical oceanography;
(C) Other uses of the area;
(D) Flora and fauna;
(E) Existing environmental monitoring systems; and
(F) Other unusual or unique characteristics that may affect or be affected by the drilling activities.
(iv) A description of the probable impacts of the proposed action on the environment and the measures you propose for mitigating these impacts.
(v) A description of any unavoidable or irreversible adverse effects on the environment that could occur.
(vi) Other relevant data that the BOEM Regional Director requires.
(3)
Copies for coastal States.
You must submit copies of the drilling plan and environmental report to the BOEM Regional Director for transmittal to the Governor of each affected coastal State and the coastal zone management agency of each affected coastal State that has an approved program under the Coastal Zone Management Act. (BOEM Regional Director will make the drilling plan and environmental report available to appropriate Federal agencies and the public according to the Department of the Interior's policies and procedures).
(4)
Certification of coastal zone management program consistency and State concurrence.
When required under an approved coastal zone management program of an affected State, your drilling plan must include a certification that the proposed activities described in the plan comply with enforceable policies of, and will be conducted in a manner consistent with such State's program. BOEM Regional Director may not approve any of the activities described in the drilling plan unless the State concurs with the consistency certification or the Secretary of Commerce makes the finding authorized by section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of the Coastal Zone Management Act.
(5)
Protecting archaeological resources.
If the Regional Director believes that an archaeological resource may exist in the area that may be affected by drilling, the Regional Director will notify you of the need to prepare an archaeological report.
(i) If the evidence suggests that an archaeological resource may be present, you must:
(A) Locate the site of the drilling so as to not adversely affect the area where the archaeological resources may be, or
(B) Establish to the satisfaction of the BOEM Regional Director that an archaeological resource does not exist or will not be adversely affected by drilling. This must be done by further archaeological investigation, conducted by an archaeologist and a geophysicist, using survey equipment and techniques deemed necessary by the Regional Director. A report on the investigation must be submitted to the BOEM Regional Director for review.
(ii) If the BOEM Regional Director determines that an archaeological resource is likely to be present in the area that may be affected by drilling, and may be adversely affected by drilling, the BOEM Regional Director will notify you immediately. You must take no action that may adversely affect the archaeological resource unless an investigation by BOEM determines that the resource is not archaeologically significant.
(iii) If you discover any archaeological resource while drilling, you must immediately halt drilling and report the discovery to the BOEM Regional Director. If investigations determine that the resource is significant, the BOEM Regional Director will inform you how to protect it.
(6) [Reserved]
(7)
Revising an approved drilling plan.
Before you revise an approved drilling plan, you must obtain the BOEM Regional Director's approval.
(8) [Reserved]
(9)
Deadline for completing a deep stratigraphic test.
If your deep stratigraphic test well is within 50 geographic miles of a tract that BOEM has identified for
a future lease sale, as listed on the currently approved OCS leasing schedule, you must complete all drilling activities and submit the data and information to the BOEM Regional Director at least 60 days before the first day of the month in which BOEM schedules the lease sale. However, the BOEM Regional Director may extend your permit duration to allow you to complete drilling activities and submit data and information if the extension is in the National interest.
(c)
Group participation in test drilling.
BOEM encourages group participation for deep stratigraphic tests.
(1)
Purpose of group participation.
The purpose is to minimize duplicative G
G activities involving drilling into the seabed of the OCS.
(2)
Providing opportunity for participation in a deep stratigraphic test.
When you propose to drill a deep stratigraphic test, you must give all interested persons an opportunity to participate in the test drilling through a signed agreement on a cost-sharing basis. You may include a penalty for late participation of not more than 100 percent of the cost to each original participant in addition to the original share cost.
(i) The participants must assess and distribute late participation penalties in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
(ii) For a significant hydrocarbon occurrence that the Regional Director announces to the public, the penalty for subsequent late participants may be raised to not more than 300 percent of the cost of each original participant in addition to the original share cost.
(3)
Providing opportunity for participation in a shallow test drilling project.
When you apply to conduct shallow test drilling activities, you must, if ordered by the Regional Director or required by the permit, give all interested persons an opportunity to participate in the test activity on a cost-sharing basis. You may include a penalty provision for late participation of not more than 50 percent of the cost to each original participant in addition to the original share cost.
(4)
Procedures for group participation in drilling activities.
You must:
(i) Publish a summary statement that describes the approved activity in a relevant trade publication;
(ii) Forward a copy of the published statement to the Regional Director;
(iii) Allow at least 30 days from the summary statement publication date for other persons to join as original participants;
(iv) Compute the estimated cost by dividing the estimated total cost of the program by the number of original participants; and
(v) Furnish the Regional Director with a complete list of all participants before starting operations, or at the end of the advertising period if you begin operations before the advertising period is over. The names of any subsequent or late participants must also be furnished to the Regional Director.
(5)
Changes to the original application for test drilling.
If you propose changes to the original application and the Regional Director determines that the changes are significant, the Regional Director will require you to publish the changes for an additional 30 days to give other persons a chance to join as original participants.
(d)
Bonding requirements.
You must submit a bond under this part before you may start a deep stratigraphic test.
(1) Before BOEM issues a permit authorizing the drilling of a deep stratigraphic test, you must either:
(i) Furnish to BOEM a bond of not less than $200,000 that guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of the permit; or
(ii) Maintain a $1 million bond that guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of the permit you hold for the OCS area where you propose to drill.
(2) You must provide additional security to BOEM if the Regional Director determines that it is necessary for the permit or area.
(3) The Regional Director may require you to provide a bond, in an amount the Regional Director prescribes, before authorizing you to drill a shallow test well.
(4) Your bond must be on a form approved by the Deputy Director.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57097, Sept. 22, 2015]
§ 551.8
Inspection and reporting requirements for activities under a permit.
(a)
Inspection of permit activities.
You must allow BOEM representatives to inspect your exploration or scientific research activities under a permit. They will determine whether operations are adversely affecting the environment, aquatic life, archaeological resources, or other uses of the area. BOEM will reimburse you for food, quarters, and transportation that you provide for BOEM representatives if you send in your reimbursement request to the Region that issued the permit within 90 days of the inspection.
(b)
Approval for modifications.
Before you begin modified operations, you must submit a written request describing the modifications and receive the Regional Director's oral or written approval. If circumstances preclude a written request, you must make an oral request and follow up in writing.
(c)
Reports.
(1) You must submit status reports on a schedule specified in the permit and include a daily log of operations.
(2) You must submit a final report of exploration or scientific research activities under a permit within 30 days after the completion of acquisition activities under the permit. You may combine the final report with the last status report and must include each of the following:
(i) A description of the work performed.
(ii) Charts, maps, plats, and digital navigational data in a format specified by the Regional Director, showing the areas and blocks in which any exploration or permitted scientific research activities were conducted. Identify the lines of geophysical traverses and their locations including a reference sufficient to identify the data produced during each activity.
(iii) The dates on which you conducted the actual exploration or scientific research activities.
(iv) A summary of any:
(A) Hydrocarbon or sulphur occurrences encountered;
(B) Environmental hazards; and
(C) Adverse effects of the exploration or scientific research activities on the environment, aquatic life, archaeological resources, or other uses of the area in which the activities were conducted.
(v) Other descriptions of the activities conducted as specified by the Regional Director.
§ 551.9
Temporarily stopping, canceling, or relinquishing activities approved under a permit.
(a) BOEM may temporarily stop exploration or scientific research activities under a permit when the Regional Director determines that:
(1) Activities pose a threat of serious, irreparable, or immediate harm. This includes damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, any mineral deposit (in areas leased or not leased), to the marine, coastal, or human environment, or to an archaeological resource;
(2) You failed to comply with any applicable law, regulation, order, or provision of the permit. This would include BOEM's required submission of reports, well records or logs, and G
G data and information within the time specified; or
(3) Stopping the activities is in the interest of National security or defense.
(b)
Procedures to temporarily stop activities.
(1) The Regional Director will advise you either orally or in writing. BOEM will confirm an oral notification in writing and deliver all written notifications by courier or certified or registered mail. You must halt all activities under a permit as soon as you receive an oral or written notification.
(2) The Regional Director will advise you when you may start your permit activities again.
(c)
Procedure to cancel or relinquish a permit.
The Regional Director may cancel, or a permittee may relinquish, a permit at any time.
(1) If BOEM cancels your permit, the Regional Director will advise you by certified or registered mail 30 days before the cancellation date and will state the reason.
(2) You may relinquish the permit by advising the Regional Director by certified or registered mail 30 days in advance.
(3) After BOEM cancels your permit or you relinquish it, you are still responsible for proper abandonment of any drill sites in accordance with the requirements of 30 CFR 251.7(b)(8). You must also comply with all other obligations specified in this part or in the permit.
§ 551.10
Penalties and appeals.
(a)
Penalties for noncompliance under a permit issued by BOEM.
You are subject to the penalty provisions of:
(1) Section 24 of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1350); and
(2) The procedures contained in 30 CFR part 550, subpart N, for noncompliance with:
(i) Any provision of the Act;
(ii) Any provision of a G
G or drilling permit; or
(iii) Any regulation or order issued under the Act.
(b)
Penalties under other laws and regulations.
The penalties prescribed in this section are in addition to any other penalty imposed by any other law or regulation.
(c)
Procedures to appeal orders or decisions BOEM issues.
See 30 CFR part 590 for instructions on how to appeal any order or decision that we issue under this part.
§ 551.11
Submission, inspection, and selection of geological data and information collected under a permit and processed by permittees or third parties.
(a)
Availability of geological data and information collected under a permit.
(1) You must notify the Regional Director, in writing, when you complete the initial analysis, processing, or interpretation of any geological data and information. Initial analysis and processing are the stages of analysis or processing where the data and information first become available for in-house interpretation by the permittee, or become available commercially to third parties via sale, trade, license agreement, or other means.
(2) The Regional Director may ask if you have further analyzed, processed, or interpreted any geological data and information. When so asked, you must respond to BOEM in writing within 30 days.
(b)
Submission, inspection, and selection of geological data and information.
The Regional Director may request the permittee or third party to submit the analyzed, processed, and interpreted geologic data and information for inspection and/or permanent retention by BOEM. The data and information must be submitted within 30 days after such request.
(c)
Requirements for submission of geological data and information collected under a permit.
Unless the Regional Director specifies otherwise, geological data and information must include:
(1) An accurate and complete record of all geological (including geochemical) data and information describing each operation of analysis, processing, and interpretation;
(2) Paleontological reports identifying microscopic fossils by depth, including the reference datum to which paleontological sample depths are related and, if the Regional Director requests, washed samples that you maintain for paleontological determinations;
(3) Copies of well logs or charts in a digital format, if available;
(4) Results and data obtained from formation fluid tests;
(5) Analyses of core or bottom samples and/or a representative cut or split of the core or bottom sample;
(6) Detailed descriptions of any hydrocarbons or hazardous conditions encountered during operations, including near losses of well control, abnormal geopressures, and losses of circulation; and
(7) Other geological data and information that the Regional Director may specify.
(d)
Obligations when geological data and information collected under permit are obtained by a third party.
A third party may obtain geological data and information from a permittee, or from another third party, by sale, trade, license agreement, or other means. If this happens:
(1) The third party recipient of the data and information assumes the obligations under this section, except for the notification provisions of paragraph (a)(1), and is subject to the penalty provisions of 30 CFR part 550, subpart N; and
(2) A permittee or third party that sells, trades, licenses, or otherwise provides data and information to a third party must advise the recipient, in writing, that accepting these obligations is a condition precedent of the sale, trade, license, or other agreement; and
(3) Except for license agreements, a permittee or third party that sells, trades, or otherwise provides data and information to a third party must advise the Regional Director, in writing and within 30 days, of the sale, trade, or other agreement, including the identity of the recipient of the data and information; or
(4) For license agreements a permittee or third party that licenses data and information to a third party must, within 30 days of a request by the Regional Director, advise the Regional Director, in writing, of the license agreement, including the identity of the recipient of the data and information.
§ 551.12
Submission, inspection, and selection of geophysical data and information collected under a permit and processed by permittees or third parties.
(a)
Availability of geophysical data and information collected under a permit.
(1) You must notify the Regional Director, in writing, when you complete the initial processing and interpretation of any geophysical data and information. Initial processing is the stage of processing where the data and information become available for in-house interpretation by the permittee, or become available commercially to third parties via sale, trade, license agreement, or other means.
(2) The Regional Director may ask if you have further processed or interpreted any geophysical data and information. When so asked, you must respond to BOEM in writing within 30 days.
(b)
Submission, inspection and selection of geophysical data and information collected under a permit.
The Regional Director may request that the permittee or third party submit geophysical data and information before making a final selection for retention. BOEM representatives may inspect and select the data and information on your premises, or the Regional Director can request delivery of the data and information to the appropriate BOEM regional office for review.
(1) You must submit the geophysical data and information within 30 days of receiving the request, unless the Regional Director extends the delivery time.
(2) At any time before final selection, the Regional Director may return any or all geophysical data and information following review. You will be notified in writing of all or portions of those data the Regional Director decides to retain.
(c)
Requirements for submission of geophysical data and information collected under a permit.
Unless the Regional Director specifies otherwise, you must include:
(1) An accurate and complete record of each geophysical survey conducted under the permit, including digital navigational data and final location maps;
(2) All seismic data collected under a permit presented in a format and of a quality suitable for processing;
(3) Processed geophysical information derived from seismic data with extraneous signals and interference removed, presented in a quality format suitable for interpretive evaluation, reflecting state-of-the-art processing techniques; and
(4) Other geophysical data, processed geophysical information, and interpreted geophysical information including, but not limited to, shallow and deep subbottom profiles, bathymetry, sidescan sonar, gravity and magnetic surveys, and special studies such as refraction and velocity surveys.
(d)
Obligations when geophysical data and information collected under a permit are obtained by a third party.
A third party may obtain geophysical data, processed geophysical information, or interpreted geophysical information from a permittee, or from another third party, by sale, trade, license agreement, or other means. If this happens:
(1) The third party recipient of the data and information assumes the obligations under this section, except for
the notification provisions of paragraph (a)(1), and is subject to the penalty provisions of 30 CFR part 550, subpart N; and
(2) A permittee or third party that sells, trades, licenses, or otherwise provides data and information to a third party must advise the recipient, in writing, that accepting these obligations is a condition precedent of the sale, trade, license, or other agreement; and
(3) Except for license agreements, a permittee or third party that sells, trades, or otherwise provides data and information to a third party must advise the Regional Director, in writing and within 30 days, of the sale, trade, or other agreement, including the identity of the recipient of the data and information; or
(4) For license agreements, a permittee or third party that licenses data and information to a third party must, within 30 days of a request by the Regional Director, advise the Regional Director, in writing, of the license agreement, including the identity of the recipient of the data and information.
§ 551.13
Reimbursement for the costs of reproducing data and information and certain processing costs.
(a) BOEM will reimburse you or a third party for reasonable costs of reproducing data and information that the Regional Director requests if:
(1) You deliver G
G data and information to BOEM for the Regional Director to inspect or select and retain (according to § 551.11 or § 551.12);
(2) BOEM receives your request for reimbursement and the Regional Director determines that the requested reimbursement is proper; and
(3) The cost is at your lowest rate (or a third party's) or at the lowest commercial rate established in the area, whichever is less.
(b) BOEM will reimburse you or the third party for the reasonable costs of processing geophysical information (which does not include cost of data acquisition):
(1) If, at the request of the Regional Director, you processed the geophysical data or information in a form or manner other than that used in the normal conduct of business; or
(2) If you collected the information under a permit that BOEM issued to you before October 1, 1985, and the Regional Director requests and retains the information.
(c) When you request reimbursement, you must identify reproduction and processing costs separately from acquisition costs.
(d) BOEM will not reimburse you or a third party for data acquisition costs or for the costs of analyzing or processing geological information or interpreting geological or geophysical information.
§ 551.14
Protecting and disclosing data and information submitted to BOEM under a permit.
(a)
Disclosure of data and information to the public by BOEM.
(1) In making data and information available to the public, the Regional Director will follow the applicable requirements of:
(i) The Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552);
(ii) The implementing regulations at 43 CFR part 2;
(iii) The Act; and
(iv) The regulations at 30 CFR parts 550 and 552.
(2) Except as specified in this section or in 30 CFR parts 550 and 552, if the Regional Director determines any data or information is exempt from public disclosure under this paragraph (a), BOEM will not provide the data and information to any State or to the executive of any local government or to the public, unless you and all third parties agree to the disclosure.
(3) BOEM will keep confidential the identity of third party recipients of data and information collected under a permit. BOEM will not release the identity unless you and the third parties agree to the disclosure.
(4) When you detect any significant hydrocarbon occurrences or environmental hazards on unleased lands during drilling operations, the Regional Director will immediately issue a public announcement. The announcement must further the National interest, but without unduly damaging your competitive position.
(b)
Timetable for release of G
G data and information related to oil, gas, and sulphur that BOEM acquires.
Except for high-resolution data and information released under 30 CFR 550.197(b)(2), BOEM will release or disclose acquired data and information in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) If the data and information are not related to a deep stratigraphic test, BOEM will release them to the public in accordance with the following table:
If you or a third party submit and BOEM retains . . .
The Regional Director will release them to the public . . .
(i) Geological data and information,
10 years after BOEM issued the permit.
(ii) Geophysical data,
50 years after BOEM issued the permit.
(iii) Geophysical information processed or reprocessed less than 20 years after BOEM issued the germane permit,
25 years after BOEM issued the permit.
(iv) Geophysical information processed or reprocessed 20 or more years after BOEM issued the germane permit,
25 years after BOEM issued the permit; or, if you or a third party applied for an extension of the proprietary term, 5 years after BOEM approved the application for an extension. In any case BOEM will release the information no later than 50 years after BOEM issued the permit.
(2) Permittees and third parties may apply to BOEM for an extension of the 25-year proprietary term for geophysical information reprocessed 20 or more years after BOEM issued the germane permit. You must submit the application to BOEM within 90 days after completion of the reprocessing, except during the initial 1-year grace period as provided in paragraph (b)(5) below. Filing locations are listed in § 551.5(d). Your application must include:
(i) Name and address of the permittee or third party;
(ii) Product name;
(iii) Identification of the geophysical information area;
(iv) Identification of originating permit number and date;
(v) Description of reprocessing performed;
(vi) Identification of the date of completion of reprocessing the geophysical information;
(vii) Certification that the product meets the definition of processed geophysical information and that all other information in the application is accurate; and
(viii) Signature and date.
(3) With each new reprocessing of permitted data, you may apply for an extension of up to 5 years. However, the maximum proprietary term for geophysical information is 50 years after the permit was issued. Once the maximum term is reached, the BOEM Regional Director will release the information to the public.
(4) Geophysical information processed or reprocessed 20 or more years after the germane permit was issued and granted the extension will be subject to submission, inspection, and selection criteria under § 551.12 and reimbursement criteria identified under § 551.13.
(5) There was a 1-year grace period, that started September 14, 2009, that allowed permittees and third parties sufficient time to meet the above requirements and apply for all eligible extensions. During that time, BOEM did not release geophysical information which was reprocessed 20 or more years after the date that the germane permit was issued.
(6) Since September 14, 2010, BOEM has resumed releasing eligible reprocessed information. If an application for extension was not filed, not filed on time, or not approved by BOEM, the original 25-year proprietary term applies to the release date of the reprocessed geophysical information.
(7) If the data and information are related to a deep stratigraphic test, BOEM will release them to the public at the earlier of the following times:
(i) Twenty-five years after you complete the test; or
(ii) If a lease sale is held after you complete a test well, 60-calendar days after BOEM issues the first lease, any portion of which is located within 50 geographic miles (92.7 kilometers) of the test.
(8) BOEM may allow limited inspection, but only by persons with a direct
interest in related BOEM decisions and issues in specific geographic areas, and who agree in writing to its confidentiality, of G
G data and information submitted under this part that BOEM uses to:
(i) Make unitization determinations on two or more leases;
(ii) Make competitive reservoir determinations;
(iii) Ensure proper plans of development for competitive reservoirs;
(iv) Promote operational safety;
(v) Protect the environment;
(vi) Make field determinations; or
(vii) Determine eligibility for royalty relief.
(c)
Procedure that BOEM follows to disclose acquired data and information to a contractor for reproduction, processing, and interpretation.
(1) When practical, the Regional Director will advise the person who submitted data and information under § 551.11 or § 551.12 of the intent to disclose the data or information to an independent contractor or agent.
(2) The person so notified will have at least 5 working days to comment on the action.
(3) When the Regional Director advises the person who submitted the data and information, all other owners of the data or information will be considered to have been so notified.
(4) Before disclosure, the contractor or agent must sign a written commitment not to sell, trade, license, or disclose data or information to anyone without the Regional Director's consent.
(d)
Sharing data and information with coastal States.
(1) When BOEM solicits nominations for leasing lands located within 3 geographic miles (5.6 kilometers) of the seaward boundary of any coastal State, the Regional Director, in accordance with 30 CFR 552.7(a)(4) and (b) and subsections 8(g) and 26(e) of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(g) and 1352(e)), will provide the Governor with:
(i) All information on the geographical, geological, and ecological characteristics of the areas and regions BOEM proposes to offer for lease;
(ii) An estimate of the oil and gas reserves in the areas proposed for leasing; and
(iii) An identification of any field, geological structure, or trap on the OCS within 3 geographic miles (5.6 kilometers) of the seaward boundary of the State.
(2) After receiving nominations for leasing an area of the OCS within 3 geographic miles of the seaward boundary of any coastal State, BOEM will carry out a tentative area identification according to 30 CFR part 556, subparts D and E. At that time, the Regional Director will consult with the Governor to determine whether any tracts further considered for leasing may contain any oil or gas reservoirs that underlie both the OCS and lands subject to the jurisdiction of the State.
(3) Before a sale, if a Governor requests, the Regional Director, in accordance with 30 CFR 552.7(a)(4) and (b) and sections 8(g) and 26(e) of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(g) and 1352(e)), will share with the Governor information that identifies potential and/or proven common hydrocarbon bearing areas within 3 geographic miles of the seaward boundary of that State.
(4) Information received and knowledge gained by a State official under paragraph (d) of this section is subject to applicable confidentiality requirements of:
(i) The Act; and
(ii) The regulations at 30 CFR parts 550, 551, and 552.
§ 551.15
Authority for information collection.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this part under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned OMB control number 1010-0048. The title of this information collection is “30 CFR part 551, Geological and Geophysical (G
G) Explorations of the OCS.”
(b) We may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
(c) We use the information collected under this part to:
(1) Evaluate permit applications and monitor scientific research activities for environmental and safety reasons.
(2) Determine that explorations do not harm resources, result in pollution, create hazardous or unsafe conditions, or interfere with other users in the area.
(3) Approve reimbursement of certain expenses.
(4) Monitor the progress and activities carried out under an OCS G
G permit.
(5) Inspect and select G
G data and information collected under an OCS G
G permit.
(d) Respondents are Federal OCS permittees and Notice filers. Responses are mandatory or are required to obtain or retain a benefit. We will protect information considered proprietary under applicable law and under regulations at § 551.14 and part 550 of this chapter.
(e) Send comments regarding any aspect of the collection of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57097, Sept. 22, 2015]
Pt. 552

# PART 552—OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF (OCS) OIL AND GAS INFORMATION PROGRAM
Sec.
552.1
Purpose.
552.2
Definitions.
552.3
Oil and gas data and information to be provided for use in the OCS Oil and Gas Information Program.
552.4
Summary Report to affected States.
552.5
Information to be made available to affected States.
552.6
Freedom of Information Act requirements.
552.7
Privileged and proprietary data and information to be made available to affected States.

# Authority:
OCS Lands Act, 43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.,
as amended, 92 Stat. 629; Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552; § 252.3 also issued under Pub. L. 99-190 making continuing appropriations for Fiscal Year 1986, and for other purposes.

# Source:
76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 552.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the provisions of section 26 of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1352). This part supplements the procedures and requirements contained in 30 CFR parts 250, 251, 550, and 551 and provides procedures and requirements for the submission of oil and gas data and information resulting from exploration, development, and production operations on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) to the Director, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management. In addition, this part establishes procedures for the Director to make available certain information to the Governors of affected States and, upon request, to the executives of affected local governments in accordance with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act and the Act.
§ 552.2
Definitions.
When used in the regulations in this part, the following terms shall have the meanings given below:
Act
refers to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
).
Affected local government
means the principal governing body of a locality which is in an affected State and is identified by the Governor of that State as a locality which will be significantly affected by oil and gas activities on the OCS.
Affected State
means, with respect to any program, plan, lease sale, or other activity, proposed, conducted, or approved pursuant to the provisions of the Act, any State:
(1) The laws of which are declared, pursuant to section 4(a)(2)(A) of the Act, to be the law of the United States for the portion of the OCS on which such activity is, or is proposed to be, conducted;
(2) Which is, or is proposed to be, directly connected by transportation facilities to any artificial island or installations and other devices permanently, or temporarily attached to the seabed;
(3) Which is receiving, or in accordance with the proposed activity will receive, oil for processing, refining, or transshipment which was extracted from the OCS and transported directly to such State by means of vessels or by
a combination of means including vessels;
(4) Which is designated by the Director as a State in which there is a substantial probability of significant impact on or damage to the coastal, marine, or human environment, or a State in which there will be significant changes in the social, governmental, or economic infrastructure, resulting from the exploration, development, and production of oil and gas anywhere on the OCS; or
(5) In which the Director finds that because of such activity there is, or will be, a significant risk of serious damage, due to factors such as prevailing winds and currents, to the marine or coastal environment in the event of any oilspill, blowout, or release of oil or gas from vessels, pipelines, or other transshipment facilities.
Analyzed geological information
means data collected under a permit or a lease which have been analyzed. Analysis may include, but is not limited to, identification of lithologic and fossil content, core analyses, laboratory analyses of physical and chemical properties, logs or charts of electrical, radioactive, sonic, and other well logs, and descriptions of hydrocarbon shows or hazardous conditions.
Area adjacent to a State
means all of that portion of the OCS included within a planning area if such planning area is bordered by that State. The portion of the OCS in the Navarin Basin Planning Area is deemed to be adjacent to the State of Alaska. The States of New York and Rhode Island are deemed to be adjacent to both the Mid-Atlantic Planning Area and the North Atlantic Planning Area.
Data
means facts and statistics or samples which have not been analyzed or processed.
Development
means those activities which take place following discovery of oil or natural gas in paying quantities, including geophysical activity, drilling, platform construction, and operation of all onshore support facilities, and which are for the purpose of ultimately producing the oil and gas discovered.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management of the U.S. Department of the Interior or a designee of the Director.
Exploration
means the process of searching for oil and natural gas, including:
(1) Geophysical surveys where magnetic, gravity, seismic, or other systems are used to detect or imply the presence of such oil or natural gas, and
(2) Any drilling, whether on or off known geological structures, including the drilling of a well in which a discovery of oil or natural gas in paying quantities is made and the drilling of any additional delineation well after such discovery which is needed to delineate any reservoir and to enable the lessee to determine whether to proceed with development and production.
Governor
means the Governor of a State, or the person or entity designated by, or pursuant to, State law to exercise the powers granted to a Governor pursuant to the Act.
Information,
when used without a qualifying adjective, includes analyzed geological information, processed geophysical information, interpreted geological information, and interpreted geophysical information.
Interpreted geological information
means knowledge, often in the form of schematic cross sections and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of data and analyzed geological information.
Interpreted geophysical information
means knowledge, often in the form of schematic cross sections and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of geophysical data and processed geophysical information.
Lease
means any form of authorization which is issued under section 8 or maintained under section 6 of the Act and which authorizes exploration for, and development and production of, oil or natural gas, or the land covered by such authorization, whichever is required by the context.
Lessee
means the party authorized by a lease, or an approved assignment thereof, to explore for and develop and produce the leased deposits in accordance with the regulations in part 550 of this chapter, including all parties holding such authority by or through the lessee.
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)
means all submerged lands which lie seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in the Submerged Lands Act (67 Stat. 29) and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Permittee
means the party authorized by a permit issued pursuant to part 551 of this chapter to conduct activities on the OCS.
Processed geophysical information
means data collected under a permit or a lease which have been processed. Processing involves changing the form of data so as to facilitate interpretation. Processing operations may include, but are not limited to, applying corrections for known perturbing causes, rearranging or filtering data, and combining or transforming data elements.
Production
means those activities which take place after the successful completion of any means for the removal of oil or natural gas, including such removal, field operations, transfer of oil or natural gas to shore, operation monitoring, maintenance, and workover drilling.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or a designee of the Secretary.
§ 552.3
Oil and gas data and information to be provided for use in the OCS Oil and Gas Information Program.
(a) Any permittee or lessee engaging in the activities of exploration for, or development and production of, oil and gas on the OCS shall provide the Director access to all data and information obtained or developed as a result of such activities, including geological data, geophysical data, analyzed geological information, processed and reprocessed geophysical information, interpreted geophysical information, and interpreted geological information. Copies of these data and information and any interpretation of these data and information shall be provided to the Director upon request. No permittee or lessee submitting an interpretation of data or information, where such interpretation has been submitted in good faith, shall be held responsible for any consequence of the use of or reliance upon such interpretation.
(b)(1) Whenever a lessee or permittee provides any data or information, at the request of the Director and specifically for use in the OCS Oil and Gas Information Program in a form and manner of processing which is utilized by the lessee or permittee in the normal conduct of business, the Director shall pay the reasonable cost of reproducing the data and information if the lessee or permittee requests reimbursement. The cost shall be computed and paid in accordance with the applicable provisions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(2) Whenever a lessee or permittee provides any data or information, at the request of the Director and specifically for use in the OCS Oil and Gas Information Program, in a form and manner of processing not normally utilized by the lessee or permittee in the normal conduct of business, the Director shall pay the lessee or permittee, if the lessee or permittee requests reimbursement, the reasonable cost of processing and reproducing the requested data and information. The cost is to be computed and paid in accordance with the applicable provisions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(c) Data or information requested by the Director shall be provided as soon as practicable, but not later than 30 days following receipt of the Director's request, unless, for good reason, the Director authorizes a longer time period for the submission of the requested data or information.
(d) The Director reserves the right to disclose any data or information acquired from a lessee or permittee to an independent contractor or agent for the purpose of reproducing, processing, reprocessing, or interpreting such data or information. When practicable, the Director shall notify the lessee(s) or permittee(s) who provided the data or information of the intent to disclose the data or information to an independent contractor or agent. The Director's notice of intent will afford the permittee(s) or lessee(s) a period of not less than 5 working days within which to comment on the intended action. When the Director so notifies a lessee or permittee of the intent to disclose data or information to an independent
contractor or agent, all other owners of such data or information shall be deemed to have been notified of the Director's intent. Prior to any such disclosure, the contractor or agent shall be required to execute a written commitment not to disclose any data or information to anyone without the express consent of the Director, and not to make any disclosure or use of the data or information other than that provided in the contract. Contracts between BOEM and independent contractors shall be available to the lessee(s) or permittee(s) for inspection. In the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of data or information by the contractor or agent, or by an employee thereof, the responsible contractor or agent or employee thereof shall be liable for penalties pursuant to section 24 of the Act.
(e)(1) After delivery of data or information in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section and upon receipt of a request for reimbursement and a determination by the Director that the requested reimbursement is proper, the lessee or permittee shall be reimbursed for the cost of reproducing the data or information at the lessee's or permittee's lowest rate or at the lowest commercial rate established in the area, whichever is less. Requests for reimbursement must be made within 60 days of the delivery date of the data or information requested under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(2) After delivery of data or information in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, and upon receipt of a request for reimbursement and a determination by the Director that the requested reimbursement is proper, the lessee or permittee shall be reimbursed for the cost of processing or reprocessing and of reproducing the requested data or information. Requests for reimbursement must be made within 60 days of the delivery date of the data or information and shall be for only the costs attributable to processing or reprocessing and reproducing, as distinguished from the costs of data acquisition.
(3) Requests for reimbursement are to contain a breakdown of costs in sufficient detail to allow separation of reproduction, processing, and reprocessing costs from acquisition and other costs.
(f) Each Federal Department or Agency shall provide the Director with any data which it has obtained pursuant to section 11 of the Act and any other information which may be necessary or useful to assist the Director in carrying out the provisions of the Act.
§ 552.4
Summary Report to affected States.
(a) The Director, as soon as practicable after analysis, interpretation, and compilation of oil and gas data and information developed by BOEM or furnished by lessees, permittees, or other government agencies, shall make available to affected States and, upon request, to the executive of any affected local government, a Summary Report of data and information designed to assist them in planning for the onshore impacts of potential OCS oil and gas development and production. The Director shall consult with affected States and other interested parties to define the nature, scope, content, and timing of the Summary Report. The Director may consult with affected States and other interested parties regarding subsequent revisions in the definition of the nature, scope, content, and timing of the Summary Report. The Summary Report shall not contain data or information which the Director determines is exempt from disclosure in accordance with this part. The Summary Report shall not contain data or information the release of which the Director determines would unduly damage the competitive position of the lessee or permittee who provided the data or information which the Director has processed, analyzed, or interpreted during the development of the Summary Report. The Summary Report shall include:
(1) Estimates of oil and gas reserves; estimates of the oil and gas resources that may be found within areas which the Secretary has leased or plans to offer for lease; and when available, projected rates and volumes of oil and gas to be produced from leased areas;
(2) Magnitude of the approximate projections and timing of development,
if and when oil or gas, or both, is discovered;
(3) Methods of transportation to be used, including vessels and pipelines and approximate location of routes to be followed; and
(4) General location and nature of near-shore and onshore facilities expected to be utilized.
(b) When the Director determines that significant changes have occurred in the information contained in a Summary Report, the Director shall prepare and make available the new or revised information to each affected State, and, upon request, to the executive of any affected local government.
§ 552.5
Information to be made available to affected States.
(a) The Director shall prepare an index of OCS information (see 30 CFR 556.10). The index shall list all relevant actual or proposed programs, plans, reports, environmental impact statements, nominations information, environmental study reports, lease sale information, and any similar type of relevant information, including modifications, comments, and revisions prepared or directly obtained by the Director under the Act. The index shall be sent to affected States and, upon request, to any affected local government. The public shall be informed of the availability of the index.
(b) Upon request, the Director shall transmit to affected States, affected local governments, and the public a copy of any information listed in the index which is subject to the control of BOEM, in accordance with the requirements and subject to the limitations of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and implementing regulations. The Director shall not transmit or make available any information which he determines is exempt from disclosure in accordance with this part.
§ 552.6
Freedom of Information Act requirements.
(a) The Director shall make data and information available in accordance with the requirements and subject to the limitations of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the regulations contained in 43 CFR part 2 (Records and Testimony), the requirements of the Act, and the regulations contained in 30 CFR parts 250 and 550 (Oil and Gas and Sulphur Operations in the Outer Continental Shelf) and 30 CFR part 551 (Geological and Geophysical Explorations of the Outer Continental Shelf).
(b) Except as provided in § 552.7 or in 30 CFR parts 250, 251, 550, and 551 of this chapter, no data or information determined by the director to be exempt from public disclosure under paragraph (a) of this section shall be provided to any affected State or be made available to the executive of any affected local government or to the public unless the lessee, or the permittee and all persons to whom such permittee has sold such data or information under promise of confidentiality, agree to such action.
§ 552.7
Privileged and proprietary data and information to be made available to affected States.
(a)(1) The Governor of any affected State may designate an appropriate State official to inspect, at a regional location which the Director shall designate, any privileged or proprietary data or information received by the Director regarding any activity in an area adjacent to such State, except that no such inspection shall take place prior to the sale of a lease covering the area in which such activity was conducted.
(2)(i) Except as provided for in 30 CFR 250.197, 550.197, and 551.14, no privileged or proprietary data or information will be transmitted to any affected State unless the lessee who provided the privileged or proprietary data or information agrees in writing to the transmittal of the data or information.
(ii) Except as provided for in 30 CFR 250.197, 550.197, and 551.14, no privileged or proprietary data or information will be transmitted to any affected State unless the permittee and all persons to whom the permittee has sold the data or information under promise of confidentiality agree in writing to the transmittal of the data or information.
(3) Knowledge obtained by a State official who inspects data or information under paragraph (a)(1) of this section or who receives data or information under paragraph (a)(2) of this section
shall be subject to the requirements and limitations of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the regulations contained in 43 CFR part 2 (Records and Testimony), the Act (92 Stat. 629), the regulations contained in 30 CFR parts 250 and 550 (Oil and Gas and Sulphur Operations in the Outer Continental Shelf), the regulations contained in 30 CFR parts 251 and 551 (Geological and Geophysical Explorations of the Outer Continental Shelf), and the regulations contained in 30 CFR parts 252 and 552 (Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Information Program).
(4) Prior to the transmittal of any privileged or proprietary data or information to any State, or the grant of access to a State official to such data or information, the Secretary shall enter into a written agreement with the Governor of the State in accordance with section 26(e) of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1352). In that agreement the State shall agree, as a condition precedent to receiving or being granted access to such data or information to:
(i) Protect and maintain the confidentiality of privileged or proprietary data and information in accordance with the laws and regulations listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(ii) Waive the defenses as set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(iii) Hold the United States harmless from any violations of the agreement to protect the confidentiality of privileged or proprietary data or information by the State or its employees or contractors.
(b)(1) Whenever any employee of the Federal Government or of any State reveals in violation of the Act or of the provisions of the regulations implementing the Act, privileged or proprietary data or information obtained pursuant to the regulations in this chapter, the lessee or permittee who supplied such information to the Director or any other Federal official, and any person to whom such lessee or permittee has sold such data or information under the promise of confidentiality, may commence a civil action for damages in the appropriate district court of the United States against the Federal Government or such State, as the case may be. Any Federal or State employee who is found guilty of failure to comply with any of the requirements of this section shall be subject to the penalties described in section 24 of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1350).
(2) In any action commenced against the Federal Government or a State pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Federal Government or such State, as the case may be, may not raise as a defense any claim of sovereign immunity, or any claim that the employee who revealed the privileged or proprietary data or information which is the basis of such suit was acting outside the scope of the person's employment in revealing such data or information.
(c) If the Director finds that any State cannot or does not comply with the conditions described in the agreement entered into pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the Director shall thereafter withhold transmittal and deny access for inspection of privileged or proprietary data or information to such State until the Director finds that such State can and will comply with those conditions.
Pt. 553

# PART 553—OIL SPILL FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR OFFSHORE FACILITIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
553.1
What is the purpose of this part?
553.3
How are the terms used in this regulation defined?
553.5
What is the authority for collecting Oil Spill Financial Responsibility (OSFR) information?

# Subpart B—Applicability and Amount of OSFR
553.10
What facilities does this part cover?
553.11
Who must demonstrate OSFR?
553.12
May I ask BOEM for a determination of whether I must demonstrate OSFR?
553.13
How much OSFR must I demonstrate?
553.14
How do I determine the worst case oil-spill discharge volume?
553.15
What are my general OSFR compliance responsibilities?

# Subpart C—Methods for Demonstrating OSFR
553.20
What methods may I use to demonstrate OSFR?
553.21
How can I use self-insurance as OSFR evidence?
553.22
How do I apply to use self-insurance as OSFR evidence?
553.23
What information must I submit to support my net worth demonstration?
553.24
When I submit audited annual financial statements to verify my net worth, what standards must they meet?
553.25
What financial test procedures must I use to determine the amount of self-insurance allowed as OSFR evidence based on net worth?
553.26
What information must I submit to support my unencumbered assets demonstration?
553.27
When I submit audited annual financial statements to verify my unencumbered assets, what standards must they meet?
553.28
What financial test procedures must I use to evaluate the amount of self-insurance allowed as OSFR evidence based on unencumbered assets?
553.29
How can I use insurance as OSFR evidence?
553.30
How can I use an indemnity as OSFR evidence?
553.31
How can I use a surety bond as OSFR evidence?
553.32
Are there alternative methods to demonstrate OSFR?

# Subpart D—Requirements for Submitting OSFR Information
553.40
What OSFR evidence must I submit to BOEM?
553.41
What terms must I include in my OSFR evidence?
553.42
How can I amend my list of COFs?
553.43
When is my OSFR demonstration or the amendment to my OSFR demonstration effective?
553.44
[Reserved]
553.45
Where do I send my OSFR evidence?

# Subpart E—Revocation and Penalties
553.50
How can BOEM refuse or invalidate my OSFR evidence?
553.51
What are the penalties for not complying with this part?

# Subpart F—Claims for Oil-Spill Removal Costs and Damages
553.60
To whom may I present a claim?
553.61
When is a guarantor subject to direct action for claims?
553.62
What are the designated applicant's notification obligations regarding a claim?

# Subpart G—Limit of Liability for Offshore Facilities
553.700
What is the scope of this subpart?
553.701
To which entities does this subpart apply?
553.702
What limit of liability applies to my offshore facility?
553.703
What is the procedure for calculating the limit of liability adjustment for inflation?
553.704
How will BOEM publish the offshore facility limit of liability adjustment?
Appendix to Part 553—List of U.S. Geological Survey Topographic Maps

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 2704, 2716; 2716a; E.O. 12777, as amended.

# Source:
76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 553.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part establishes the requirements for demonstrating Oil Spill Financial Responsibility for covered offshore facilities (COF), sets forth the procedures for claims against COF guarantors, and sets forth the limit of liability for offshore facilities, as adjusted, un der Title I of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.
(OPA).
[79 FR 73839, Dec. 12, 2014]
§ 553.3
How are the terms used in this regulation defined?
Terms used in this part have the following meaning:
Advertise
means publication of the notice of designation of the source of the incident and the procedures by which the claims may be presented, according to 33 CFR part 136, subpart D.
Annual CPI-U
means the annual “Consumer Price Index-All Urban Consumers, Not Seasonally Adjusted, U.S. City Average, All items, 1982 − 84 = 100,” published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Bay
means a body of water included in the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS) bay feature class. A GNIS bay includes an arm, bay, bight, cove, estuary, gulf, inlet, or sound.
Claim
means a written request, for a specific sum, for compensation for damages or removal costs resulting from an oil-spill discharge or a substantial threat of the discharge of oil.
Claimant
means any person or government who presents a claim for compensation under OPA.
Coastline
means the line of ordinary low water along that portion of the coast that is in direct contact with the open sea which marks the seaward limit of inland waters.
Covered offshore facility (COF)
means a facility:
(1) That includes any structure and all its components (including wells completed at the structure and the associated pipelines), equipment, pipeline, or device (other than a vessel or other than a pipeline or deepwater port licensed under the Deepwater Port Act of 1974 (33 U.S.C. 1501
et seq.
)) used for exploring for, drilling for, or producing oil or for transporting oil from such facilities. This includes a well drilled from a mobile offshore drilling unit (MODU) and the associated riser and well control equipment from the moment a drill shaft or other device first touches the seabed for purposes of exploring for, drilling for, or producing oil, but it does not include the MODU; and
(2) That is located:
(i) Seaward of the coastline; or
(ii) In any portion of a bay that is:
(A) Connected to the sea, either directly or through one or more other bays; and
(B) Depicted in whole or in part on any USGS map listed in the Appendix to this part, or on any map published by the USGS that is a successor to and covers all or part of the same area as a listed map. Where any portion of a bay is included on a listed map, this rule applies to the entire bay; and
(3) That has a worst case oil-spill discharge potential of more than 1,000 bbls of oil, or a lesser volume if the Director determines in writing that the oil-spill discharge risk justifies the requirement to demonstrate OSFR.
Current period
means the year in which the Annual CPI-U was most recently published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Designated applicant
means a person the responsible parties designate to demonstrate OSFR for a COF on a lease, permit, or right-of-use and easement.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.
Fund
means the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund established by section 9509 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (26 U.S.C. 9509).
Geographic Names Information System (GNIS)
means the database developed by the USGS in cooperation with the U.S. Board of Geographic Names which contains the federally-recognized geographic names for all known places, features, and areas in the United States that are identified by a proper name. Each feature is located by state, county, and geographic coordinates and is referenced to the appropriate 1:24,000-scale or 1:63,360-scale USGS topographic map on which it is shown.
Guarantor
means a person other than a responsible party who provides OSFR evidence for a designated applicant.
Guaranty
means any acceptable form of OSFR evidence provided by a guarantor including an indemnity, insurance, or surety bond.
Incident
means any occurrence or series of occurrences having the same origin that results in the discharge or substantial threat of the discharge of oil.
Indemnity
means an agreement to indemnify a designated applicant upon its satisfaction of a claim.
Indemnitor
means a person providing an indemnity for a designated applicant.
Independent accountant
means a certified public accountant who is certified by a state, or a chartered accountant certified by the government of jurisdiction within the country of incorporation of the company proposing to use one of the self-insurance evidence methods specified in this subpart.
Insolvent
has the meaning set forth in 11 U.S.C. 101, and generally refers to a financial condition in which the sum of a person's debts is greater than the value of the person's assets.
Lease
means any form of authorization issued under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act or state law
which allows oil and gas exploration and production in the area covered by the authorization.
Lessee
means a person holding a leasehold interest in an oil or gas lease including an owner of record title or a holder of operating rights (working interest owner).
Oil
means oil of any kind or in any form, except as excluded by paragraph (2) of this definition.
(1) Oil includes:
(i) Petroleum, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse, and oil mixed with wastes other than dredged spoil;
(ii) Hydrocarbons produced at the wellhead in liquid form;
(iii) Gas condensate that has been separated from gas before pipeline injection.
(2) Oil does not include petroleum, including crude oil or any fraction thereof, which is specifically listed or designated as a hazardous substance under subparagraphs (A) through (F) of section 101(14) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) (42 U.S.C. 9601).
Oil Spill Financial Responsibility (OSFR)
means the capability and means by which a responsible party for a covered offshore facility will meet removal costs and damages for which it is liable under Title I of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended (33 CFR 2701
et seq.
), with respect to both oil-spill discharges and substantial threats of the discharge of oil.
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)
has the same meaning as the term “Outer Continental Shelf” defined in section 2(a) of the OCS Lands Act (OCSLA) (43 U.S.C. 1331(a)).
Permit
means an authorization, license, or permit for geological exploration issued under section 11 of the OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1340) or applicable state law.
Person
means an individual, corporation, partnership, association (including a trust or limited liability company), state, municipality, commission or political subdivision of a state, or any interstate body.
Pipeline
means the pipeline segments and any associated equipment or appurtenances used or intended for use in the transportation of oil or natural gas.
Previous period
means the year in which the previous limit of liability was established, or last adjusted by statute or regulation, whichever is later.
Responsible party,
for purposes of subparts B through F, has the following meanings:
(1) For a COF that is a pipeline, responsible party means any person owning or operating the pipeline;
(2) For a COF that is not a pipeline, responsible party means either the lessee or permittee of the area in which the COF is located, or the holder of a right-of-use and easement granted under applicable State law or the OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1301-1356) for the area in which the COF is located (if the holder is a different person than the lessee or permittee). A Federal agency, State, municipality, commission, or political subdivision of a State, or any interstate body that as owner transfers possession and right to use the property to another person by lease, assignment, or permit is not a responsible party; and
(3) For an abandoned COF, responsible party means any person who would have been a responsible party for the COF immediately before abandonment.
Responsible party,
for purposes of subpart G, has the meaning in 33 U.S.C. 2701(32)(C), (E) and (F). This definition includes, as applicable, lessees as defined in this subpart, permittees, right-of-use and easement holders, and pipeline owners and operators.
Right-of-use and easement (RUE)
means any authorization to use the OCS or submerged land for purposes other than those authorized by a lease or permit, as defined herein. It includes pipeline rights-of-way.
Source of the incident
means the facility from which oil was discharged or which poses a substantial threat of discharging oil, as designated by the Director, National Pollution Funds Center, according to 33 CFR part 136, subpart D.
State
means the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United
States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 73839, Dec. 12, 2014]
§ 553.5
What is the authority for collecting Oil Spill Financial Responsibility (OSFR) information?
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection requirements in this part 553 under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.,
and assigned OMB control number 1010-0106.
(b) BOEM collects the information to ensure that the designated applicant for a COF has the financial resources necessary to pay for cleanup and damages that could be caused by oil discharges from the COF. BOEM uses the information to ensure compliance of offshore lessees, owners, and operators of covered facilities with OPA; to establish eligibility of designated applicants for OSFR certification (OSFRC); and to establish a reference source of names, addresses, and telephone numbers of responsible parties for covered facilities and their designated agents, guarantors, and U.S. agents for service of process for claims associated with oil pollution from designated covered facilities. The requirement to provide the information is mandatory. No information submitted for OSFRC is confidential or proprietary.
(c) An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
(d) Send comments regarding any aspect of the collection of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57097, Sept. 22, 2015]

# Subpart B—Applicability and Amount of OSFR
§ 553.10
What facilities does this part cover?
(a) This part applies to any COF on any lease or permit issued or on any RUE granted under the OCSLA or applicable State law.
(b) For a pipeline COF that extends onto land, this part applies to that portion of the pipeline lying seaward of the first accessible flow shut-off device on land.
§ 553.11
Who must demonstrate OSFR?
(a) A designated applicant must demonstrate OSFR. A designated applicant may be a responsible party or another person authorized under this section. Each COF must have a single designated applicant.
(1) If there is more than one responsible party, those responsible parties must use Form BOEM-1017 to select a designated applicant. The designated applicant must submit Form BOEM-1016 and agree to demonstrate OSFR on behalf of all the responsible parties.
(2) If you are a designated applicant who is not a responsible party, you must agree to be liable for claims made under OPA jointly and severally with the responsible parties.
(b) The designated applicant for a COF on a lease must be either:
(1) A lessee; or
(2) The designated operator for the OCS lease under 30 CFR 550.143 or the unit operator designated under a Federally approved unit including the OCS lease. For a lease or unit not in the OCS, the operator designated under the lease or unit operating agreement for the lease may be the designated applicant only if the operator has agreed to be responsible for compliance with all the laws and regulations applicable to the lease or unit.
(c) The designated applicant for a COF on a permit must be the permittee.
(d) The designated applicant for a COF on a RUE must be the holder of the RUE or, if there is a pipeline on the RUE, the owner or operator of the pipeline.
(e) BOEM may require the designated applicant for a lease, permit, or RUE to
be a person other than a person identified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section if BOEM determines that a person identified in paragraphs (b) through (d) cannot adequately demonstrate OSFR.
(f) If you are a responsible party and you fail to designate an applicant, then you must demonstrate OSFR under the requirements of this part.
§ 553.12
May I ask BOEM for a determination of whether I must demonstrate OSFR?
You may submit to BOEM a request for a determination of OSFR applicability. Address the request to the office identified in § 553.45. You must include in your request any information that will assist BOEM in making the determination. BOEM may require you to submit other information before making a determination of OSFR applicability.
§ 553.13
How much OSFR must I demonstrate?
(a) The following general parameters apply to the amount of OSFR that you must demonstrate:
If you are the designated applicant for . . .
Then you must demonstrate . . .
Only one COF,
The amount of OSFR that applies to the COF.
More than one COF,
The highest amount of OSFR that applies to any one of the COFs.
(b) You must demonstrate OSFR in the amounts specified in this section:
(1) For a COF located wholly or partially in the OCS you must demonstrate OSFR in accordance with the following table:
COF worst case oil-spill discharge volume
Applicable amount of OSFR
Over 1,000 bbls but not more than 35,000 bbls
$35,000,000
Over 35,000 but not more than 70,000 bbls
70,000,000
Over 70,000 but not more than 105,000 bbls
105,000,000
Over 105,000 bbls
150,000,000
(2) For a COF not located in the OCS you must demonstrate OSFR in accordance with the following table:
COF worst case oil-spill discharge volume
Applicable amount of OSFR
Over 1,000 bbls but not more than 10,000 bbls
$10,000,000
Over 10,000 but not more than 35,000 bbls
35,000,000
Over 35,000 but not more than 70,000 bbls
70,000,000
Over 70,000 but not more than 105,000 bbls
105,000,000
Over 105,000 bbls
150,000,000
(3) The Director may determine that you must demonstrate an amount of OSFR greater than the amount in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section based on the relative operational, environmental, human health, and other risks that your COF poses. The Director may require an amount that is one or more levels higher than the amount indicated in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section for your COF. The Director will not require an OSFR demonstration that exceeds $150 million.
(4) You must demonstrate OSFR in the lowest amount specified in the applicable table in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section for a facility with a potential worst case oil-spill discharge of 1,000 bbls or less if the Director notifies you in writing that the demonstration is justified by the risks of the potential oil-spill discharge.
§ 553.14
How do I determine the worst case oil-spill discharge volume?
(a) To calculate the amount of OSFR you must demonstrate for a facility under § 553.13(b), you must use the worst case oil-spill discharge volume
that you determined under whichever of the following regulations applies:
(1) 30 CFR part 254—Response Plans for Facilities Located Seaward of the Coast Line, except that the volume of the worst case oil-spill discharge for a well must be four times the uncontrolled flow volume that you estimate for the first 24 hours.
(2) 40 CFR part 112—Oil Pollution Prevention; or
(3) 49 CFR part 194—Response Plans for Onshore Oil Pipelines.
(b) If you are a designated applicant and you choose to demonstrate $150 million in OSFR, you are not required to determine any worst case oil-spill discharge volumes, since that is the maximum amount of OSFR required under this part.
§ 553.15
What are my general OSFR compliance responsibilities?
(a) You must maintain continuous OSFR coverage for all your leases, permits, and RUEs with COFs for which you are the designated applicant.
(b) You must ensure that new OSFR evidence is submitted before your current evidence lapses or is canceled and that coverage for your new COF is submitted before the COF goes into operation.
(c) If you use self-insurance to demonstrate OSFR and find that you no longer qualify to self-insure the required OSFR amount based upon your latest audited annual financial statements, then you must demonstrate OSFR using other methods acceptable to BOEM by whichever of the following dates comes first:
(1) Sixty calendar days after you receive your latest audited annual financial statement; or
(2) The first calendar day of the 5th month after the close of your fiscal year.
(d) You may use a surety bond to demonstrate OSFR. If you find that your bonding company has lost its state license or has had its U.S. Treasury Department certification revoked, then you must replace the surety bond within 15 calendar days using a method of OSFR that is acceptable to BOEM.
(e) You must notify BOEM in writing within 15 calendar days after a change occurs that would prevent you from meeting your OSFR obligations (e.g., if you or your indemnitor petition for bankruptcy under chapters 7 or 11 of Title 11, U.S.C.). You must take any action BOEM directs to ensure an acceptable OSFR demonstration.
(f) If you deny payment of a claim presented to you under § 553.60, then you must give the claimant a written explanation for your denial.

# Subpart C—Methods for Demonstrating OSFR
§ 553.20
What methods may I use to demonstrate OSFR?
As the designated applicant, you may satisfy your OSFR requirements by using one or a combination of the following methods to demonstrate OSFR:
(a) Self-insurance under §§ 553.21 through 553.28;
(b) Insurance under § 553.29;
(c) An indemnity under § 553.30;
(d) A surety bond under § 553.31; or
(e) An alternative method the Director approves under § 553.32.
§ 553.21
How can I use self-insurance as OSFR evidence?
(a) If you use self-insurance to satisfy all or part of your obligation to demonstrate OSFR, you must annually pass either a net worth test under § 553.25 or an unencumbered net asset test under § 553.28.
(b) To establish the amount of self-insurance allowed, you must submit evidence of your net worth under § 553.23 or evidence of your unencumbered assets under § 553.26.
(c) You must identify a U.S. agent for service of process.
§ 553.22
How do I apply to use self-insurance as OSFR evidence?
(a) You must submit a complete Form BOEM-1018 with each application to demonstrate OSFR using self-insurance.
(b) You must submit your application to renew OSFR using self-insurance by the first calendar day of the 5th month after the close of your fiscal year. You may submit to BOEM your initial application to demonstrate OSFR using self-insurance at any time.
§ 553.23
What information must I submit to support my net worth demonstration?
You must support your net worth evaluation with information contained in your previous fiscal year's audited annual financial statement.
(a) Audited annual financial statements must be in the form of:
(1) An annual report, prepared in accordance with the generally accepted accounting practices (GAAP) of the United States or other international accounting practices determined to be equivalent by BOEM; or
(2) A Form 10-K or Form 20-F, prepared in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.
(b) Audited annual financial statements must be submitted together with a letter signed by your treasurer highlighting:
(1) The State or the country of incorporation;
(2) The total amount of the stockholders' equity as shown on the balance sheet;
(3) The net amount of the plant, property, and equipment shown on the balance sheet; and
(4) The net amount of the identifiable U.S. assets and the identifiable total assets in the auditor's notes to the financial statement (
i.e.,
a geographic segmented business note).
§ 553.24
When I submit audited annual financial statements to verify my net worth, what standards must they meet?
(a) Your audited annual financial statements must be bound.
(b) Your audited annual financial statements must include the unqualified opinion of an independent accountant that states:
(1) The financial statements are free from material misstatement, and
(2) The audit was conducted in accordance with the generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS) of the United States, or other international auditing standards that BOEM determines to be equivalent.
(c) The financial information you submit must be expressed in U.S. dollars. If this information was originally reported in another form of currency, you must convert it to U.S. dollars using the conversion factor that was effective on the last day of the fiscal year pertinent to your financial statements. You also must identify the source of the currency exchange rate.
§ 553.25
What financial test procedures must I use to determine the amount of self-insurance allowed as OSFR evidence based on net worth?
(a) Divide the total amount of the stockholders'/owners' equity listed on the balance sheet by ten.
(b) Divide the net amount of the identifiable U.S. assets by the net amount of the identifiable total assets.
(c) Multiply the net amount of plant, property, and equipment shown on the balance sheet by the number calculated under paragraph (b) of this section and divide the resultant product by ten.
(d) The smaller of the numbers calculated under paragraphs (a) or (c) of this section is the maximum allowable amount you may use to demonstrate OSFR under this method.
§ 553.26
What information must I submit to support my unencumbered assets demonstration?
You must support your unencumbered assets evaluation with the information required by § 553.23(a) and a list of reserved, unencumbered, and unimpaired U.S. assets whose value will not be affected by an oil discharge from a COF. The assets must be plant, property, or equipment held for use. You must submit a letter signed by your treasurer:
(a) Identifying which assets are reserved;
(b) Certifying that the assets are unencumbered, including contingent encumbrances;
(c) Promising that the identified assets will not be sold, subjected to a security interest, or otherwise encumbered throughout the specified fiscal year; and
(d) Specifying:
(1) The State or the country of incorporation;
(2) The total amount of the stockholders'/owners' equity listed on the balance sheet;
(3) The identification and location of the reserved U.S. assets; and
(4) The value of the reserved U.S. assets less accumulated depreciation and
amortization, using the same valuation method used in your audited annual financial statement and expressed in U.S. dollars. The net value of the reserved assets must be at least two times the self-insurance amount requested for demonstration.
§ 553.27
When I submit audited annual financial statements to verify my unencumbered assets, what standards must they meet?
Any audited annual financial statements that you submit must:
(a) Meet the standards in § 553.24; and
(b) Include a certification by the independent accountant who audited the financial statements that states:
(1) The value of the unencumbered assets is reasonable and uses the same valuation method used in your audited annual financial statements;
(2) Any existing encumbrances are noted;
(3) The assets are long-term assets held for use; and
(4) The valuation method used in the audited annual financial statements is for long-term assets held for use.
§ 553.28
What financial test procedures must I use to evaluate the amount of self-insurance allowed as OSFR evidence based on unencumbered assets?
(a) Divide the total amount of the stockholders'/owners' equity listed on the balance sheet by 4.
(b) Divide the value of the unencumbered U.S. assets by 2.
(c) The smaller number calculated under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section is the maximum allowable amount you may use to demonstrate OSFR under this method.
§ 553.29
How can I use insurance as OSFR evidence?
(a) If you use insurance to satisfy all or part of your obligation to demonstrate OSFR, you may use only insurance certificates issued by insurers that have achieved a “Secure” rating for claims paying ability in their latest review by A.M. Best's Insurance Reports, Standard
Poor's Insurance Rating Services, or other equivalent rating made by a rating service acceptable to BOEM.
(b) You must submit information about your insurers to BOEM on a completed and unaltered Form BOEM-1019. The information you submit must:
(1) Include all the information required by § 553.41 and
(2) Be executed on one original insurance certificate (
i.e.,
Form BOEM-1019) for each OSFR layer (see paragraph (c) of this section), showing all participating insurers and their proportion (quota share) of this risk. The certificate must bear the original signatures of each insurer's underwriter or of their lead underwriters, underwriting managers, or delegated brokers, depending on who is authorized to bind the underwriter.
(3) For each insurance company on the insurance certificate, indicate the insurer's claims-paying-ability rating and the rating service that issued the rating.
(c) The insurance evidence you provide to BOEM as OSFR evidence may be divided into layers, subject to the following restrictions:
(1) The total amount of OSFR evidence must equal the total amount you must demonstrate under § 553.13;
(2) No more than one insurance certificate may be used to cover each OSFR layer specified in § 553.13(b) (
i.e.,
four layers for an OCS COF, and five layers for a non-OCS COF);
(3) You may use one insurance certificate to cover any number of consecutive OSFR layers;
(4) Each insurer's participation in the covered insurance risk must be on a proportional (quota share) basis, must be expressed as a percentage of a whole layer, and the certificate must not contain intermediate, horizontal layers;
(5) You may use an insurance deductible. If you use more than one insurance certificate, the deductible amount must apply only to the certificate that covers the base OSFR amount layer. To satisfy an insurance deductible, you may use only those methods that are acceptable as evidence of OSFR under this part; and
(6) You must identify a U.S. agent for service of process on each insurance certificate you submit to BOEM. The agent may be different for each insurance certificate.
(d) You may submit to BOEM a temporary insurance confirmation (fax binder) for each insurance certificate you use as OSFR evidence. Submit your fax binder on Form BOEM-1019, and each form must include the signature of an underwriter for at least one of the participating insurers. BOEM will accept your fax binder as OSFR evidence during a period that ends 90 days after the date that you need the insurance to demonstrate OSFR.
§ 553.30
How can I use an indemnity as OSFR evidence?
(a) You may use only one indemnity issued by only one indemnitor to satisfy all or part of your obligation to demonstrate OSFR.
(b) Your indemnitor must be your corporate parent or affiliate.
(c) Your indemnitor must complete a Form BOEM-1018 and provide an indemnity that:
(1) Includes all the information required by § 553.41; and
(2) Does not exceed the amounts calculated using the net worth or unencumbered assets tests specified under §§ 553.21 through 553.28.
(d) You must submit your application to renew OSFR using an indemnity by the first calendar day of the 5th month after the close of your indemnitor's fiscal year. You may submit to BOEM your initial application to demonstrate OSFR using an indemnity at any time.
(e) Your indemnitor must identify a U.S. agent for service of process.
§ 553.31
How can I use a surety bond as OSFR evidence?
(a) Each bonding company that issues a surety bond that you submit to BOEM as OSFR evidence must:
(1) Be licensed to do business in the State in which the surety bond is executed;
(2) Be certified by the U.S. Treasury Department as an acceptable surety for Federal obligations and listed in the current Treasury Circular No. 570;
(3) Provide the surety bond on Form BOEM-1020; and
(4) Be in compliance with applicable statutes regulating surety company participation in insurance-type risks.
(b) A surety bond that you submit as OSFR evidence must include all the information required by § 553.41.
§ 553.32
Are there alternative methods to demonstrate OSFR?
The Director may accept other methods to demonstrate OSFR that provide equivalent assurance of timely satisfaction of claims. This may include pooling, letters of credit, pledges of treasury notes, or other comparable methods. Submit your proposal, together with all the supporting documents, to the Director at the address listed in § 553.45. The Director's decision whether to approve your alternative method to evidence OSFR is by this rule committed to the Director's sole discretion and is not subject to administrative appeal under 30 CFR part 590 or 43 CFR part 4.

# Subpart D—Requirements for Submitting OSFR Information
§ 553.40
What OSFR evidence must I submit to BOEM?
(a) You must submit to BOEM:
(1) A single demonstration of OSFR that covers all the COFs for which you are the designated applicant;
(2) A completed and unaltered Form BOEM-1016;
(3) BOEM forms that identify your COFs (Form BOEM-1021, Form BOEM-1022), and the methods you will use to demonstrate OSFR (Form BOEM-1018, Form BOEM-1019, Form BOEM-1020). Forms are available from the address listed in § 553.45;
(4) Any insurance certificates, indemnities, and surety bonds used as OSFR evidence for the COFs for which you are the designated applicant;
(5) A completed Form BOEM-1017 for each responsible party, unless you are the only responsible party for the COFs covered by your OSFR demonstration; and
(6) Other financial instruments and information the Director requires to support your OSFR demonstration under § 553.32.
(b) Each BOEM form you submit to BOEM as part of your OSFR demonstration must be signed. You also must attach to Form BOEM-1016 proof of your authority to sign.
§ 553.41
What terms must I include in my OSFR evidence?
(a) Each instrument you submit as OSFR evidence must specify:
(1) The effective date, and except for a surety bond, the expiration date;
(2) That termination of the instrument will not affect the liability of the instrument issuer for claims arising from an incident (
i.e.,
oil-spill discharge or substantial threat of the discharge of oil) that occurred on or before the effective date of termination;
(3) That the instrument will remain in force until the termination date or until the earlier of:
(i) Thirty calendar days after BOEM and the designated applicant receive from the instrument issuer a notification of intent to cancel; or
(ii) BOEM receives from the designated applicant other acceptable OSFR evidence; or
(iii) All the COFs to which the instrument applies are permanently abandoned in compliance with 30 CFR part 250 or equivalent State requirements;
(4) That the instrument issuer agrees to direct action for claims made under OPA up to the guaranty amount, subject to the defenses in paragraph (a)(6) of this section and following the procedures in § 553.60 of this part;
(5) An agent in the United States for service of process; and
(6) That the instrument issuer will not use any defenses against a claim made under OPA except:
(i) The rights and defenses that would be available to a designated applicant or responsible party for whom the guaranty was provided; and
(ii) The incident (
i.e.,
oil-spill discharge or a substantial threat of the discharge of oil) leading to the claim for removal costs or damages was caused by willful misconduct of a responsible party for whom the designated applicant demonstrated OSFR.
(b) You may not change, omit, or add limitations or exceptions to the terms and conditions in a BOEM form that you submit as part of your OSFR demonstration. If you attempt to do this, BOEM will disregard the changes, omissions, additions, limitations, or exceptions and by operation of this rule BOEM will consider the form to contain all the terms and conditions included on the original BOEM form.
§ 553.42
How can I amend my list of COFs?
(a) If you want to add a COF that is not identified in your current OSFR demonstration, you must submit to BOEM a completed Form BOEM-1022. If applicable, you also must submit any additional indemnities, surety bonds, insurance certificates, or other instruments required to extend the coverage of your original OSFR demonstration to the COFs to be added. You do not need to resubmit previously accepted audited annual financial statements for the current fiscal year.
(b) If you want to drop a COF identified in your current OSFR demonstration, you must submit to BOEM a completed Form BOEM-1022. You must continue to demonstrate OSFR for the COF until BOEM approves OSFR evidence for the COF from another designated applicant, or OSFR is no longer required (e.g., until a well that is a COF is properly plugged and abandoned).
§ 553.43
When is my OSFR demonstration or the amendment to my OSFR demonstration effective?
(a) BOEM will notify you in writing when we approve your OSFR demonstration. If we find that you have not submitted all the information needed to demonstrate OSFR, we may require you to provide additional information before we determine whether your OSFR evidence is acceptable.
(b) Except in the case of self-insurance or an indemnity, BOEM acceptance of OSFR evidence is valid until the surety bond, insurance certificate, or other accepted OSFR instrument expires or is canceled. In the case of self-insurance or indemnity, acceptance is valid until the first day of the 5th month after the close of your or your indemnitor's current fiscal year.
§ 553.44
[Reserved]
§ 553.45
Where do I send my OSFR evidence?
Address all correspondence and required submissions related to this part to: U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Gulf of America Region, Oil Spill Financial Responsibility Program, 1201 Elmwood Park Boulevard, New Orleans, Louisiana 70123.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 90 FR 24071, June 6, 2025]

# Subpart E—Revocation and Penalties
§ 553.50
How can BOEM refuse or invalidate my OSFR evidence?
(a) If BOEM determines that any OSFR evidence you submit fails to comply with the requirements of this part, we may not accept it. If we do not accept your OSFR evidence, then we will send you a written notification stating:
(1) That your evidence is not acceptable;
(2) Why your evidence is unacceptable; and
(3) The amount of time you are allowed to submit acceptable evidence without being subject to civil penalty under § 553.51.
(b) BOEM may immediately and without prior notice invalidate your OSFR demonstration if you:
(1) Are no longer eligible to be the designated applicant for a COF included in your demonstration; or
(2) Permit the cancellation or termination of the insurance policy, surety bond, or indemnity upon which the continued validity of the demonstration is based.
(c) If BOEM determines you are not complying with the requirements of this part for any reason other than paragraph (b) of this section, we will notify you of our intent to invalidate your OSFR demonstration and specify the corrective action needed. Unless you take the corrective action BOEM specifies within 15 calendar days from the date you receive such a notice, we will invalidate your OSFR demonstration.
§ 553.51
What are the penalties for not complying with this part?
(a) If you fail to comply with the financial responsibility requirements of OPA at 33 U.S.C. 2716 or with the requirements of this part, then you may be liable for a civil penalty of up to $59,114 per COF per day of violation (that is, each day a COF is operated without acceptable evidence of OSFR).
(b) BOEM will determine the date of a noncompliance. BOEM will assess penalties in accordance with an OSFR penalty schedule using the procedures found at 30 CFR part 550, subpart N. You may obtain a copy of the penalty schedule from BOEM at the address in § 553.45.
(c) BOEM may assess a civil penalty against you that is greater or less than the amount in the penalty schedule after taking into account the factors in section 4303(a) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2716a).
(d) If you fail to correct a deficiency in the OSFR evidence for a COF, then the Director may suspend operation of a COF in the OCS under 30 CFR 250.170 or seek judicial relief, including an order suspending the operation of any COF.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 43069, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10711, Feb. 15, 2017; 83 FR 8933, Mar. 2, 2018; 84 FR 11224, Mar. 26, 2019; 85 FR 7221, Feb. 7, 2020; 86 FR 19784, Apr. 15, 2021; 87 FR 15335, Mar. 18, 2022; 88 FR 9752, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 4818, Jan. 25, 2024; 90 FR 2614, Jan. 13, 2025]

# Subpart F—Claims for Oil-Spill Removal Costs and Damages
§ 553.60
To whom may I present a claim?
(a) If you are a claimant, you must present your claim first to the designated applicant for the COF that is the source of the incident resulting in your claim. If, however, the designated applicant has filed a petition for bankruptcy under 11 U.S.C. chapter 7 or 11, you may present your claim first to any of the designated applicant's guarantors.
(b) If the claim you present to the designated applicant or guarantor is denied or not paid within 90 days after you first present it or advertising begins, whichever is later, then you may seek any of the following remedies that apply:
If the reason for denial or nonpayment is . . .
Then you may elect to . . .
(1)
Not
an assertion of insolvency or petition in bankruptcy under 11 U.S.C. chapter 7 or 11,
(i) Present your claim to any of the responsible parties for the COF; or
(ii) Initiate a lawsuit against the designated applicant and/or any of the responsible parties for the COF; or
(iii) Present your claim to the Fund using the procedures at 33 CFR part 136.
(2) An assertion of insolvency or petition in bankruptcy under 11 U.S.C. chapter 7 or 11,
(i) Pursue any of the remedies in items (1)(i) through (iii) of this table; or
(ii) Present your claim to any of the designated applicant's guarantors; or
(iii) Initiate a lawsuit against any of the designated applicant's guarantors.
(c) If no one has resolved your claim to your satisfaction using the remedy that you elected under paragraph (b) of this section, then you may pursue another available remedy, unless the Fund has denied your claim or a court of competent jurisdiction has ruled against your claim. You may not pursue more than one remedy at a time.
(d) You may ask BOEM to assist you in determining whether a guarantor may be liable for your claim. Send your request for assistance to the address listed in § 553.45. You must include any information you have regarding the existence or identity of possible guarantors.
§ 553.61
When is a guarantor subject to direct action for claims?
(a) If you are a guarantor, then you are subject to direct action for any claim asserted by:
(1) The United States for any compensation paid by the Fund under OPA, including compensation claim processing costs; and
(2) A claimant other than the United States if the designated applicant has:
(i) Denied or failed to pay a claim because of being insolvent; or
(ii) Filed a petition in bankruptcy under 11 U.S.C. chapters 7 or 11.
(b) If you participate in an insurance guaranty for a COF incident (
i.e.,
oil-spill discharge or substantial threat of the discharge of oil) that is subject to claims under this part, then your maximum, aggregate liability for those claims is equal to your quota share of the insurance guaranty.
§ 553.62
What are the designated applicant's notification obligations regarding a claim?
If you are a designated applicant, and you receive a claim for removal costs and damages, then within 15 calendar days of receipt of a claim you must notify:
(a) Your guarantors; and
(b) The responsible parties for whom you are acting as the designated applicant.

# Subpart G—Limit of Liability for Offshore Facilities

# Source:
79 FR 73840, Dec. 12, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 553.700
What is the scope of this subpart?
This subpart sets forth the limit of liability for damages for offshore facilities under Title I of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended (33 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.
) (OPA), as adjusted, under section 1004(d) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2704(d)). This subpart also sets forth the method for adjusting the limit of liability for damages for offshore facilities for inflation, by regulation, under section 1004(d) of OPA (33 U.S.C. 2704(d)).
§ 553.701
To which entities does this subpart apply?
This subpart applies to you if you are a responsible party for an offshore facility, other than a deepwater port under the Deepwater Port Act of 1974 (33 U.S.C. 1501-1524), but including an offshore pipeline, or an abandoned offshore facility, including any abandoned offshore pipeline, unless your liability is unlimited under OPA 90 (33 U.S.C. 2704(c)).
§ 553.702
What limit of liability applies to my offshore facility?
Except as provided in 33 U.S.C. 2704(c), the limit of liability under OPA for a responsible party for any offshore facility, including any offshore pipeline, is the total of all removal costs plus $167.8069 million for damages with respect to each incident.
[88 FR 22912, Apr. 14, 2023]
§ 553.703
What is the procedure for calculating the limit of liability adjustment for inflation?
The procedure for calculating limit of liability adjustments for inflation is as follows:
(a)
Formula for calculating a cumulative percent change in the Annual CPI-U.
BOEM calculates the cumulative percent change in the Annual CPI-U from the year the limit of liability was established by statute, or last adjusted by regulation, whichever is later (
i.e.,
the Previous Period), to the year in which the Annual CPI-U is most recently published (
i.e.,
the Current Period), using the following formula: Percent change in the Annual CPI-U = [(Annual CPI-U for Current Period − Annual CPI-U for Previous Period) ÷ Annual CPI-U for Previous Period] × 100. This cumulative percent change value is rounded to one decimal place.
(b)
Significance threshold.
(1) A cumulative increase in the Annual CPI-U equal to three percent or more constitutes a significant increase in the Consumer Price Index within the meaning of 33 U.S.C. 2704(d)(4).
(2) Not later than every three years from the year the limit of liability was last adjusted for inflation, BOEM will evaluate whether the cumulative percent change in the Annual CPI-U since that year has reached a significance threshold of three percent or greater.
(3) For any three-year period evaluated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section in which the cumulative percent increase in the Annual CPI-U is less than three percent, if BOEM has not issued an inflation adjustment during that period, BOEM will publish a notice of no inflation adjustment to the offshore facility limit of liability for damages in the
Federal Register
.
(4) Once the three-percent threshold is reached, BOEM will increase by final rule the offshore facility limit of liability for damages in § 553.702 by an amount equal to the cumulative percent change in the Annual CPI-U from the year the limit was established by statute, or last adjusted by regulation, whichever is later. After this adjustment is made, BOEM will resume its process of conducting a review every three years.
(5) Nothing in this section will prevent BOEM, in BOEM's sole discretion, from adjusting the offshore facility limit of liability for damages for inflation by regulation issued more frequently than every three years.
(c)
Formula for calculating inflation adjustments.
BOEM calculates adjustments to the offshore facility limit of liability in 30 CFR 553.702 for inflation using the following formula:
New limit of liability = Previous limit of liability + (Previous limit of liability × the decimal equivalent of the percent change in the Annual CPI-U calculated under paragraph (a) of this section), then rounded to the closest $100
.
§ 553.704
How will BOEM publish the offshore facility limit of liability adjustment?
BOEM will publish the inflation-adjusted limit of liability, and any statutory amendments to that limit of liability in the
Federal Register,
as amendments to § 553.702. Updates to the limit of liability under this section are effective on the 90th day after publication in the
Federal Register
of the amendments to § 553.702, unless otherwise specified by statute (in the event of a statutory amendment to the limit of liability), or in the
Federal Register
rule amending § 553.702.
Pt. 553, App.

# Appendix to Part 553—List of U.S. Geological Survey Topographic Maps
Alabama
(1:24,000 scale): Bellefontaine; Bon Secour Bay; Bridgehead; Coden; Daphne; Fort Morgan; Fort Morgan NW; Grand Bay; Grand Bay SW; Gulf Shores; Heron Bay; Hollingers Island; Isle Aux Herbes; Kreole; Lillian; Little Dauphin Island; Little Point Clear; Magnolia Springs; Mobile; Orange Beach; Perdido Beach; Petit Bois Island; Petit Bois Pass; Pine Beach; Point Clear; Saint Andrews Bay; West Pensacola.
Alaska
(1:63,360 scale): Afognak (A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-5, A-0
B-0, B-1, B-2, B-3, C-1
2, C-2
3, C-5, C-6, D-1, D-4, D-5); Anchorage (A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-8, B-7, B-8); Barrow (A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-5, B-3, B-4); Baird Mts. (A-6); Barter Island (A-3, A-4, A-5); Beechy Point (A-1, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-5, C-4, C-5); Bering Glacier (A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-5, A-6, A-7, A-8); Black (A-1, A-2, B-1, C-1); Blying Sound (C-7, C-8, D-1
2, D-3, D-4, D-5, D-6, D-7, D-8); Candle (D-6); Cordova (A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-7
8, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-5, B-6, B-7, B-8, C-5, C-6, C-7, C-8, D-6, D-7, D-8); De Long Mts. (D-4, D-5); Demarcation Point (C-1, C-2, D-2, D-3); Flaxman Island (A-1, A-3, A-4, A-5, B-5); Harrison Bay (B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, C-1, C-3, C-4, C-5, D-4, D-5); Icy Bay (D1, D-2
3); Iliamna (A-2, A-3, A-4, B-2, B-3, C-1, C-2, D-1); Karluk (A-1, A-2, B-2, B-3, C-1, C-2, C-4
5, C-6); Kenai (A-4, A-5, A-7, A-8, B-4, B-6, B-7, B-8, C-4, C-5, C-6, C-7, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4, D-5); Kodiak (A-3, A-4, A-5, A-6, B-1
2, B-3, B-4, B-6, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-5, C-6, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4, D-5, D-6); Kotzebue (A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, B-4, B-6, C-1, C-4, C-5, C-6, D-1, D-2); Kwiguk (C-6, D-6); Meade River (D-1, D-3, D-4, D-5); Middleton Island (B-7, D-1
2); Mt. Katmai (A-1, A-2, A-3; B-1); Mt. Michelson (D-1, D-2, D-3); Mt. St. Elias (A-5); Noatak (A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, B-4, C-4, C-5, D-6, D-7); Nome (B-1, C-1, C-2, C-3, D-3, D-4, D-7); Norton Bay (A-4, B-4, B-5, B-6, C-4, C-5, C-6, D-4, D-5, D-6); Point Hope (A-1, A-2, B-2, B-3, C-2, C-3, D-1, D-2); Point Lay (A-3
4, B-2
3, C-2, D-1, D-2); Selawik (A-5, A-6, B-5, B-6, C-5, C-6, D-6); Seldovia (A-3, A-4, A-5, A-6, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-5, B-6, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5, D-1, D-3, D-4, D-5, D-8); Seward (A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-5, A-6, A-7, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4, D-5, D-6, D-7, D-8); Shishmaref (A-2, A-3, A-4, B-1, B-2, B-3); Solomon (B-2, B-3, B-6, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5, C-6); St. Michael (A-2, A-3, A-4, A-5, A-6, B-1, B-2, C-1, C-2); Teller (A-2, A-3, A-4, B-3, B-4, B-5, B-6, C-6, C-7, D-4, D-5, D-6, D-8); Teshekpuk (D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4, D-5); Tyonek (A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, B-1, B-2); Unalakleet (B-5, B-6, C-4, C-5, D-4); Valdez (A-7, A-8); Wainwright (A-5, A-6
7, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-5
6, C-2, C-3, D-1, D-2; Yakutat (A-1, A-2, A-2, B-3, B-4, B-5, C-4, C-5, C-6, C-7, C-8, D-3, D-4, D-5, D-6, D-8).
California
(1:24,000 scale): Arroyo Grande NE; Beverly Hills; Carpinteria; Casmalia; Dana Point; Del Mar; Dos Pueblos Canyon; Encinitas; Gaviota; Goleta; Guadalupe; Imperial Beach; Laguna Beach; La Jolla; Las Pulgas Canyon; Lompoc Hills; Long Beach; Los Alamitos; Malibu Beach; Morro Bay South; National City; Newport Beach; Oceano; Oceanside; Oxnard; Pismo Beach; Pitas Point; Point Arguello; Point Conception; Point Dune; Point Loma; Point Mugu; Point Sal; Port San Luis; Rancho Santa Fe; Redondo Beach; Sacate; San Clemente; San Juan Capistrano; San Luis Rey; San Onofre Bluff; San Pedro; Santa Barbara; Saticoy; Seal Beach; Surf; Tajiguas; Topanga; Torrance; Tranquillon Mountain; Triunfo Pass; Tustin; Venice; Ventura; White Ledge Peak.
Florida
(1:24,000 scale): Allanton; Alligator Bay; Anna Maria; Apalachicola; Aripeka; Bayport; Beacon Beach; Beacon Hill; Bee Ridge; Belle Meade; Belle Meade NW; Beverly; Big Lostmans Bay; Bird Keys; Bokeelia; Bonita Springs; Bradenton; Bradenton Beach; Bruce; Bunker; Cape Romano; Cape Saint George; Cape San Blas; Captiva; Carrabelle; Cedar Key; Chassahowitzka; Chassahowitzka Bay; Chiefland SW; Choctaw Beach; Chokoloskee; Clearwater; Clive Key; Cobb Rocks; Cockroach Bay; Crawfordville East; Crooked Island; Crooked Point; Cross City SW; Crystal River; Destin; Dog Island; Dunedin; East Pass; Egmont Key; El Jobean; Elfers; Englewood; Englewood NW; Estero; Everglades City; Fivay Junction; Flamingo; Fort Barrancas; Fort Myers Beach; Fort Myers SW; Fort Walton Beach; Freeport; Gandy Bridge; Garcon Point; Gator Hook Swamp; Gibsonton; Goose Island; Grayton Beach; Green Point; Gulf Breeze; Harney River; Harold SE; Holley; Holt SW; Homosassa; Horseshoe Beach; Indian Pass; Jackson River; Jena; Keaton Beach; Laguna Beach; Lake Ingraham East; Lake Ingraham West; Lake Wimico; Laurel; Lebanon Station; Lighthouse Point; Lillian; Long Point; Lostmans River Ranger Station; Manlin Hammock; Marco Island; Mary Esther; Matlacha; McIntyre; Milton South; Miramar Beach; Myakka River; Naples North; Naples South; Navarre; New Inlet; Niceville; Nutall Rise; Ochopee; Okefenokee Slough; Oldsmar; Orange Beach; Oriole Beach; Overstreet; Ozello; Pace; Palmetto; Panama City; Panama City Beach; Panther Key; Pass-A-Grille Beach; Pavillion Key; Pensacola; Perdido Bay; Pickett Bay; Pine Island Center; Placida; Plover Key; Point Washington; Port Boca Grande; Port Richey; Port Richey NE; Port Saint Joe; Port Tampa; Punta Gorda; Punta Gorda SE; Punta Gorda SW; Red Head; Red Level; Rock Islands; Royal Palm Hammock; Safety Harbor; Saint Joseph Point; Saint Joseph Spit; Saint Marks; Saint Marks NE; Saint Petersburg; Saint Teresa Beach; Salem SW; Sandy Key; Sanibel; Sarasota; Seahorse Key; Seminole; Seminole Hills; Shark Point; Shark River Island; Shired Island; Snipe Island; Sopchoppy; South of Holley; Southport; Sprague Island; Spring Creek; Springfield; Steinhatchee; Steinhatchee SE; Steinhatchee SW; Sugar Hill; Sumner; Suwannee; Tampa; Tarpon Springs; Valparaiso; Venice; Vista; Waccassasa Bay; Ward Basin; Warrior Swamp; Weavers Station; Weeki Wachee Spring; West Bay; West Pass; West Pensacola; Whitewater Bay West; Withlacoochee Bay; Wulfert; Yankeetown.
Louisiana
(1:24,000 scale): Alligator Point; Barataria Pass; Bastian Bay; Bay Batiste;
Bay Coquette; Bay Courant; Bay Dosgris; Bay Ronquille; Bay Tambour; Bayou Blanc; Bayou Lucien; Belle Isle; Belle Pass; Big Constance Lake; Black Bay North; Black Bay South; Breton Islands; Breton Islands SE; Buras; Burrwood Bayou East; Burwood Bayou West; Calumet Island; Cameron; Caminada Pass; Cat Island; Cat Island Pass; Central Isles Dernieres; Chandeleur Light; Chef Mentur; Cheniere Au Tigre; Cocodrie; Coquille Point; Cow Island; Creole; Cypremort Point; Deep Lake; Dixon Bay; Dog Lake; Door Point; East Bay Junop; Eastern Isles; Dernieres; Ellerslie; Empire; English Lookout; False Mouth Bayou; Fearman Lake; Floating Turf Bayou; Fourleague Bay; Franklin; Freemason Island; Garden Island Pass; Grand Bayou; Grand Bayou du Large; Grand Chenier; Grand Gosier Islands; Grand Isle; Hackberry Beach; Hammock Lake; Happy Jack; Hebert Lake; Hell Hole Bayou; Hog Bayou; Holly Beach; Intercoastal City; Isle Au Pitre; Jacko Bay; Johnson Bayou; Kemper; Lake Athanasio; Lake Cuatro Caballo; Lake Eloi; Lake Eugene; Lake Felicity; Lake La Graisse; Lake Merchant; Lake Point; Lake Salve; Lake Tambour; Leeville; Lena Lagoon; Lost Lake; Main Pass; Malheureux Point; Marone Point; Martello Castle; Mink Bayou; Mitchell Key; Morgan City SW; Morgan Harbor; Mound Point; Mulberry Island East; Mulberry Island West; New Harbor Islands; North Islands; Oak Mound Bayou; Oyster Bayou; Pass A Loutre East; Pass A Loutre West; Pass du Bois; Pass Tante Phine; Pecan Island; Pelican Pass; Peveto Beach; Pilottown; Plumb Bayou; Point Au Fer; Point Au Fer NE; Point Chevreuil; Point Chicot; Port Arthur South; Port Sulphur; Pte. Aux Marchuttes; Proctor Point; Pumpkin Islands; Redfish Point; Rollover Lake; Sabine Pass; Saint Joe Pass; Smith Bayou; South of South Pass; South Pass; Stake Islands; Taylor Pass; Texas Point; Three Mile Bay; Tigre Lagoon; Timbalier Island; Triumph; Venice; Weeks; West of Johnson Bayou; Western Isles Dernieres; Wilkinson Bay; Yscloskey.
Mississippi
(1:24,000 scale): Bay Saint Louis; Biloxi; Cat Island; Chandeleur Light; Deer Island; Dog Keys Pass; English Lookout; Gautier North; Gautier South; Grand Bay SW; Gulfport North; Gulfport NW; Gulfport South; Horn Island East; Horn Island West; Isle Au Pitre; Kreole; Ocean Springs; Pascagoula North; Pascagoula South; Pass Christian; Petit Bois Island; Saint Joe Pass; Ship Island; Waveland.
Texas
(1:24,000 scale): Allyns Bright; Anahuac; Aransas Pass; Austwell; Bacliff; Bayside; Big Hill Bayou; Brown Cedar Cut; Caplen; Carancahua Pass; Cedar Lakes East; Cedar Lakes West; Cedar Lane NE; Christmas Point; Clam Lake; Corpus Christi; Cove; Crane Islands NW; Crane Islands SW; Decros Point; Dressing Point; Estes; Flake; Freeport; Frozen Point; Galveston; Green Island; Hawk Island; High Island; Hitchcock; Hoskins Mound; Jones Creek; Keller Bay; Kleberg Point; La Comal; La Leona; La Parra Ranch NE; Laguna Vista; Lake Austin; Lake Como; Lake Stephenson; Lamar; Long Island; Los Amigos; Windmill; Maria Estella Well; Matagorda; Matagorda SW; Mesquite Bay; Mission Bay; Morgans Point; Mosquito Point; Mouth of Rio Grande; Mud Lake; North of Port Isabel NW; North of Port Isabel SW; Oak Island; Olivia; Oso Creek NE; Oyster Creek; Palacios; Palacios NE; Palacios Point; Palacios SE; Panther Point; Panther Point NE; Pass Cavallo SW; Pita Island; Point Comfort; Point of Rocks; Port Aransas; Port Arthur South; Port Bolivar; Port Ingleside; Port Isabel; Port Isabel NW; Port Lavaca East; Port Mansfield; Port O'Connor; Portland; Potrero Cortado; Potrero Lopeno NW; Potrero Lopeno SE; Potrero Lopeno SW; Rockport; Sabine Pass; San Luis Pass; Sargent; Sea Isle; Seadrift; Seadrift NE; Smith Point; South Bird Island; South Bird Island NW; South Bird Island SE; South of Palacios Point; South of Potrero Lopeno NE; South of Potrero Lopeno NW; South of Potrero Lopeno SE; South of Star Lake; St. Charles Bay; St. Charles Bay SE; St. Charles Bay SW; Star Lake; Texas City; Texas Point; The Jetties; Three Islands; Tivoli SE; Turtle Bay; Umbrella Point; Virginia Point; West of Johnson Bayou; Whites Ranch; Yarborough Pass.

# PART 556—LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND FINANCIAL ASSURANCE REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
556.100
Statement of policy.
556.101
Purpose.
556.102
Authority.
556.103
Cross references.
556.104
Information collection and proprietary information.
556.105
Acronyms and definitions.
556.106
Service fees.
556.107
Corporate seal requirements.

# Subpart B—Oil and Gas Five Year Leasing Program
556.200
What is the Five Year leasing program?
556.201
Does BOEM consider multiple uses of the OCS?
556.202
How does BOEM start the Five Year program preparation process?
556.203
What does BOEM do before publishing a proposed Five Year program?
556.204
How do Governments and citizens comment on a proposed Five Year program?
556.205
What does BOEM do before approving a proposed final Five Year program or a significant revision of a previously-approved Five Year program?

# Subpart C—Planning and Holding a Lease Sale
556.300
What reports may BOEM and other Federal agencies prepare before a lease sale?
556.301
What is a Call for Information and Nominations?
556.302
What does BOEM do with the information from the Call?
556.303
What does BOEM do if an area proposed for leasing is within three nautical miles of the seaward boundary of a coastal State?
556.304
How is a proposed notice of sale prepared?
556.305
How does BOEM coordinate and consult with States regarding a proposed notice of sale?
556.306
What if a potentially oil or gas bearing area underlies both the OCS and lands subject to State jurisdiction?
556.307
What does BOEM do with comments and recommendations received on the proposed notice of sale?
556.308
How does BOEM conduct a lease sale?
556.309
Does BOEM offer blocks in a sale that is not on the Five Year program schedule (called a Supplemental Sale)?

# Subpart D—Qualifications
556.400
When must I demonstrate that I am qualified to hold a lease on the OCS?
556.401
What do I need to show to become qualified to hold a lease on the OCS and obtain a qualification number?
556.402
How do I make the necessary showing to qualify and obtain a qualification number?
556.403
Under what circumstances may I be disqualified from holding a lease on the OCS?
556.404
What do the non-procurement debarment rules require that I do?
556.405
When must I notify BOEM of mergers, name changes, or changes of business form?

# Subpart E—Issuance of a Lease

# How To Bid
556.500
Once qualified, how do I submit a bid?
556.501
What information do I need to submit with my bid?

# Restrictions on Joint Bidding
556.511
Are there restrictions on bidding with others and do those restrictions affect my ability to bid?
556.512
What bids may be disqualified?
556.513
When must I file a statement of production?
556.514
How do I determine my production for purposes of the restricted joint bidders list?
556.515
May a person be exempted from joint bidding restrictions?

# How does BOEM act on bids?
556.516
What does BOEM do with my bid?
556.517
What may I do if my bid is rejected?

# Awarding the Lease
556.520
What happens if I am the successful high bidder and BOEM accepts my bid?
556.521
When is my lease effective?
556.522
What are the terms and conditions of the lease and when are they published?

# Subpart F—Lease Terms and Obligations

# Length of Lease
556.600
What is the primary term of my oil and gas lease?
556.601
How may I maintain my oil and gas lease beyond the primary term?
556.602
What is the primary term of my sulfur lease?
556.603
How may I maintain my sulfur lease beyond the primary term?

# Lease Obligations
56.604
What are my rights and obligations as a record title owner?
556.605
What are my rights and obligations as an operating rights owner?

# Helium
556.606
What must a lessee do if BOEM elects to extract helium from a lease?

# Subpart G—Transferring All or Part of the Record Title Interest in a Lease
556.700
May I assign or sublease all or any part of the record title interest in my lease?
556.701
How do I seek approval of an assignment of the record title interest in my lease, or a severance of operating rights from that record title interest?
556.702
When will my assignment result in a segregated lease?
556.703
What is the effect of the approval of the assignment of 100 percent of the record title in a particular aliquot(s) of my lease and the resulting lease segregation?
556.704
When would BOEM disapprove an assignment or sublease of an interest in my lease?
556.705
How do I transfer the interest of a deceased natural person who was a lessee?
556.706
What if I want to transfer record title interests in more than one lease at the same time, but to different parties?
556.707
What if I want to transfer different types of lease interests (not only record title interests) in the same lease to different parties?
556.708
What if I want to transfer my record title interests in more than one lease to the same party?
556.709
What if I want to transfer my record title interest in one lease to multiple parties?
556.710
What is the effect of an assignment of a lease on an assignor's liability under the lease?
556.711
What is the effect of a record title holder's sublease of operating rights on the record title holder's liability?
556.712
What is the effective date of a transfer?
556.713
What is the effect of an assignment of a lease on an assignee's liability under the lease?
556.714
As a restricted joint bidder, may I transfer an interest to another restricted joint bidder?
556.715
Are there any interests I may transfer or record without BOEM approval?
556.716
What must I do with respect to the designation of operator on a lease when a transfer of record title is submitted?

# Subpart H—Transferring Operating Rights in All or Part of a Lease
556.800
As an operating rights owner, may I assign all or part of my operating rights interest?
556.801
How do I seek approval of an assignment of my operating rights?
556.802
When would BOEM disapprove the assignment of all or part of my operating rights interest?
556.803
What if I want to assign operating rights interests in more than one lease at the same time, but to different parties?
556.804
What if I want to assign my operating rights interest in a lease to multiple parties?
556.805
What is the effect of an operating rights owner's assignment of operating rights on the assignor's liability?
556.806
What is the effective date of an assignment of operating rights?
556.807
What is the effect of an assignment of operating rights on an assignee's liability?
556.808
As an operating rights owner, are there any interests I may assign without BOEM approval?
556.809
[Reserved]
556.810
What must I do with respect to the designation of operator on a lease when a transfer of operating rights ownership is submitted?

# Subpart I—Bonding or Other Financial Assurance
556.900
Bond requirements for an oil and gas or sulfur lease.
556.901
Additional bonds.
556.902
General requirements for bonds.
556.903
Lapse of bond.
556.904
Lease-specific abandonment accounts.
556.905
Using a third-party guarantee instead of a bond.
556.906
Termination of the period of liability and cancellation of a bond.
556.907
Forfeiture of bonds and/or other securities.

# Subpart J—Bonus or Royalty Credits for Exchange of Certain Leases
556.1000
Leases formerly eligible for a bonus or royalty credit.

# Subpart K—Ending a Lease
556.1100
How does a lease expire?
556.1101
May I relinquish my lease or an aliquot part thereof?
556.1102
Under what circumstances will BOEM cancel my lease?

# Subpart L—Leases Maintained Under Section 6 of OCSLA
556.1200
Effect of regulations on lease.
556.1201
Section 6(a) leases and leases other than those for oil, gas, or sulfur.

# Subpart M—Environmental Studies
556.1300
Environmental studies.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 9701; 42 U.S.C. 6213; 43 U.S.C. 1334.

# Source:
81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 556.100
Statement of policy.
The management of Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) resources is to be conducted in accordance with the findings, purposes, and policy directions provided by the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Amendments of 1978 (OCSLA or the Act) (43 U.S.C. 1332, 1801, 1802), and other executive, legislative, judicial and departmental guidance. The Secretary of the Interior (the
Secretary) will consider available environmental information in making decisions affecting OCS resources.
§ 556.101
Purpose.
The purpose of the regulations in this part is to establish the procedures under which the Secretary will exercise the authority to administer a leasing program for oil and gas, and sulfur. The regulations pertaining to the procedures under which the Secretary will exercise the authority to administer a program to grant rights-of-use and easements are found in part 550 of this chapter.
§ 556.102
Authority.
(a) The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA) (43 U.S.C. 1334) authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to issue, on a competitive basis, leases for oil and gas, and sulfur, in submerged lands of the OCS. The Act authorizes the Secretary to grant rights-of-way and easements through the submerged lands of the OCS.
(b) The Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (FOGRMA) (30 U.S.C. 1711) governs oil and gas royalty management and requires the development of enforcement practices to ensure the prompt and proper collection of oil and gas revenues owed to the U.S.
(c) The Independent Offices Appropriations Act of 1952 (IOAA) (31 U.S.C. 9701) authorizes fees and charges for Federal government services.
(d) The Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6213) prohibits joint bidding by major oil and gas producers.
(e) The Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (GOMESA) (Pub. L. 109-432, 43 U.S.C. 1331 note):
(1) Shares leasing revenues with Gulf producing states and the Land
Water Conservation Fund for coastal restoration projects; and
(2) Allows companies to exchange certain existing leases in moratorium areas for bonus and royalty credits to be used on other Gulf of America leases.
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 90 FR 24071, June 6, 2025]
§ 556.103
Cross references.
The following includes some of the major regulations relevant to offshore oil and gas development:
(a) For other applicable Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) oil and gas regulations, see 30 CFR parts 550 through 560.
(b) For Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) regulations governing exploration, development and production, and oil spill response, see 30 CFR chapter II.
(c) For Office of Natural Resources Revenue (ONRR) regulations related to rentals, royalties, and fees, see 30 CFR chapter XII.
(d) For BOEM regulations governing the appeal of an order or decision issued under the regulations in this part, see 30 CFR part 590.
(e) For regulations on the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), see 40 CFR 1500-1508 and 43 CFR part 46.
(f) For ocean dumping sites, see the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) listing—40 CFR part 228.
(g) For air quality, see USEPA regulations at 40 CFR part 55 and BOEM regulations at 30 CFR part 550 subparts B and C.
(h) For related National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) programs, see:
(1) Marine Sanctuary regulations, 15 CFR part 922;
(2) Fishermen's Contingency Fund, 50 CFR part 296;
(3) Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA), 15 CFR part 930;
(4) Essential Fish Habitat, 50 CFR 600.90.
(i) For U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) regulations on the oil spill liability of vessels and operators, see 33 CFR parts 132, 135, and 136.
(j) For USCG regulations on port access routes, see 33 CFR part 164.
(k) For Department of Transportation regulations on offshore pipeline facilities, see 49 CFR part 195.
(1) For Department of Defense regulations on military activities on offshore areas, see 32 CFR part 252.
§ 556.104
Information collection and proprietary information.
(a)
Information collection.
(1) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
approved the collection of information under 44 U.S.C. 3501-3521), and assigned OMB Control Number 1010-0006. The title of this collection of information is “Leasing of Sulfur or Oil and Gas in the Outer Continental Shelf (30 CFR part 550, part 556, and part 560).”
(2) BOEM collects this information to determine if an applicant seeking to obtain a lease or right-of-use and easement (RUE) on the OCS is qualified to hold such a lease or RUE and to determine whether any such applicant can meet the monetary and non-monetary requirements associated with a lease or RUE. Responses to this information collection are either required to obtain or retain a benefit or are mandatory under OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1331-1356a). BOEM will protect proprietary information collected according to section 26 of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1352), and this section.
(3) The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501-3521) requires us to inform the public that an agency may not conduct or sponsor, and that no one is required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a current and valid OMB control number.
(4) Send comments regarding any aspect of the collection of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, by mail to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
(b)
Proprietary information.
(1) Any proprietary information maintained by BOEM will be subject to the requirements of 43 CFR part 2.
(2) No proprietary information received by BOEM under 43 U.S.C. 1352(c) will be transmitted to any affected State unless the lessee, to whom such information applies, or the permittee and all persons, to whom such permittee has sold such information under promise of confidentiality, agree to such transmittal.
(c) Proprietary information in response to a Call for Information and Nominations (Call).
(1) A specific indication of interest in an area received in response to a Call issued by the Secretary is proprietary information.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, BOEM may provide a summary of indications of interest in areas received in response to a Call for a proposed sale.
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 31590, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 556.105
Acronyms and definitions.
(a) Acronyms and terms used in this part have the following meanings:
ASTM American Society for Testing and Materials
BAST Best Available and Safest Technology
BOEM Bureau of Ocean Energy Management
BSEE Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
CFR Code of Federal Regulations
CPA Central Planning Area of the GOA
CZMA Coastal Zone Management Act
DOI Department of the Interior
DOCD Development Operations Coordination Document
DOO Designation of Operator
DPP Development and Production Plan
EIA Environmental Impact Analysis
EP Exploration Plan
EPAct Energy Policy Act of 2005
FNOS Final Notice of Sale
FOGRMA Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982
G
G Geological and Geophysical
GDIS Geophysical Data and Information Statement
GOA Gulf of America
IOAA Independent Offices Appropriations Act of 1952
LLC Limited Liability Company
MBB Mapping and Boundary Branch
NAD North American Datum
NEPA National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
NGPA Natural Gas Processors Association
NOAA National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
NTL Notice to Lessees
OCS Outer Continental Shelf
OCSLA Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act
OMB Office of Management and Budget
ONRR Office of Natural Resources Revenue
OPD Official Protraction Diagram
PNOS Proposed Notice of Sale
PRA Paperwork Reduction Act
ROW Right of way
RSV Royalty Suspension Volume
RUE Right of Use and Easement
SLA Submerged Lands Act of 1953
U.S. United States
U.S.C. United States Code
USCG U.S. Coast Guard
USEPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
UTM Universal Transverse Mercator coordinate system
WPA Western Planning Area of the GOA
(b) As used in this part, each of the terms and phrases listed below has the meaning given in the Act or as defined in this section.
Act
means the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended (OCSLA) (43 U.S.C. 1331-1356a).
Affected State
means, with respect to any program, plan, lease sale, or other activity proposed, conducted, or approved pursuant to the provisions of OCSLA, any State:
(i) The laws of which are declared, pursuant to section 4(a)(2) of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1333(a)(2)), to be the law of the United States for the portion of the OCS on which such activity is, or is proposed to be, conducted;
(ii) Which is, or is proposed to be, directly connected by transportation facilities to any artificial island or structure referred to in section 4(a)(1) of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1333(a)(1));
(iii) Which is receiving, or in accordance with the proposed activity will receive, oil for processing, refining, or transshipment that was extracted from the OCS and transported directly to that State by means of one or more vessels or by a combination of means, including a vessel;
(iv) Which is designated by the Secretary as a State in which there is a substantial probability of significant impact on or damage to the coastal, marine, or human environment; or a State in which there will be significant changes in the social, governmental, or economic infrastructure resulting from the exploration, development, and production of oil and gas anywhere on the OCS; or
(v) In which the Secretary finds that because of such activity, there is, or will be, a significant risk of serious damage, due to factors such as prevailing winds and currents, to the marine or coastal environment in the event of any oil spill, blowout, or release of oil or gas from one or more vessels, pipelines, or other transshipment facilities.
Aliquot or Aliquot part
means an officially designated subdivision of a lease's area, which can be a half of a lease (1/2), a quarter of a lease (1/4), a quarter of a quarter of a lease (1/4 1/4), or a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a lease (1/4 1/4 1/4).
Assign
means to convey an ownership interest in an oil, gas, or sulfur lease, ROW grant or RUE grant. For the purposes of this part, “assign” is synonymous with “transfer” and the two terms are used interchangeably.
Authorized officer
means any person authorized by law or by delegation of authority to or within BOEM to perform the duties described in this part.
Average daily production
means the total of all production in an applicable production period that is chargeable under § 556.514 divided by the exact number of calendar days in the applicable production period.
Barrel
means 42 U.S. gallons. All measurements of crude oil and natural gas liquids under this section must be at 60 °F.
(i) For purposes of computing production and reporting of natural gas, 5,626 cubic feet of natural gas at 14.73 pounds per square inch equals one barrel.
(ii) For purposes of computing production and reporting of natural gas liquids, 1.454 barrels of natural gas liquids at 60 °F equals one barrel of crude oil.
Bidding unit
means one or more OCS blocks, or any portion thereof, that may be bid upon as a single administrative unit and will become a single lease. The term `tract,” as defined in this section, may be used interchangeably with the term “bidding unit.”
BOEM
means Bureau of Ocean Energy Management of the U.S. Department of the Interior.
Bonus or royalty credit
means a legal instrument or other written documentation approved by BOEM, or an entry in an account managed by the Secretary, that a bidder or lessee may use in lieu of any other monetary payment for a bonus or a royalty due on oil or gas production from certain leases, as specified in, and permitted by, the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006, Pub. L. 109-432 (Div. C, Title 1), 120 Stat. 3000 (2006), codified at 43 U.S.C. 1331, note.
BSEE
means Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement of the U.S. Department of the Interior.
Central Planning Area (CPA)
means that portion of the Gulf of America that lies southerly of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama. Precise boundary information is available from the BOEM Leasing Division, Mapping and Boundary Branch (MBB).
Coastal environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the terrestrial ecosystem from the shoreline inland to the boundaries of the coastal zone.
Coastal zone
means the coastal waters (including the lands therein and thereunder) and the adjacent shorelands (including the water therein and thereunder), strongly influenced by each other and in proximity to the shorelines of one or more of the several coastal States, and includes islands, transition and intertidal areas, salt marshes, wetlands, and beaches, whose zone extends seaward to the outer limit of the United States territorial sea and extends inland from the shore lines to the extent necessary to control shorelands, the uses of which have a direct and significant impact on the coastal waters, and the inland boundaries of which may be identified by the several coastal States, under section 305(b)(1) of the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) of 1972, 16 U.S.C. 1454(b)(1).
Coastline
means the line of mean ordinary low water along that portion of the coast in direct contact with the open sea and the line marking the seaward limit of inland waters.
Crude oil
means a mixture of liquid hydrocarbons, including condensate that exists in natural underground reservoirs and remains liquid at atmospheric pressure after passing through surface separating facilities, but does not include liquid hydrocarbons produced from tar sand, gilsonite, oil shale, or coal.
Designated operator
means a person authorized to act on your behalf and fulfill your obligations under the Act, the lease, and the regulations, who has been designated as an operator by all record title holders and all operating rights owners that own an operating rights interest in the aliquot/depths in which the designated operator, to which the Designation of Operator form applies, will be operating, and who has been approved by BOEM to act as designated operator.
Desoto Canyon OPD
means the Official Protraction Diagram (OPD) designated as Desoto Canyon that has a western edge located at the universal transverse mercator (UTM) X coordinate 1,346,400 in the North American Datum of 1927 (NAD27).
Destin Dome OPD
means the Official Protraction Diagram (OPD) designated as Destin Dome that has a western edge located at the Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) X coordinate 1,393,920 in the NAD27.
Development block
means a block, including a block susceptible to drainage, which is located on the same general geologic structure as an existing lease having a well with indicated hydrocarbons; a reservoir may or may not be interpreted to extend on to the block.
Director
means the Director of the BOEM of the U.S. Department of the Interior, or an official authorized to act on the Director's behalf.
Eastern Planning Area
means that portion of the Gulf of America that lies southerly and westerly of Florida. Precise boundary information is available from the BOEM Leasing Division, Mapping and Boundary Branch (MBB).
Economic interest
means any right to, or any right dependent upon, production of crude oil, natural gas, or natural gas liquids and includes, but is not limited to: a royalty interest; an overriding royalty interest, whether payable in cash or kind; a working interest that does not include a record title interest or an operating rights interest; a carried working interest; a net profits interest; or a production payment.
Financial assurance
means a surety bond, a pledge of Treasury securities, a decommissioning account, a third-party guarantee, or another form of security acceptable to the BOEM Regional Director, that is used to ensure compliance with obligations under the regulations in this part and under the terms of a lease, a RUE grant, or a pipeline ROW grant.
Human environment
means the physical, social, and economic components,
conditions, and factors that interactively determine the state, condition, and quality of living conditions, employment, and health of those affected, directly or indirectly, by activities occurring on the OCS.
Initial period or primary term
means the initial period referred to in 43 U.S.C. 1337(b)(2).
Investment grade credit rating
means an issuer credit rating of BBB- or higher (S
P Global Ratings and Fitch Ratings, Inc.), Baa3 or higher (Moody's Investors Service Inc.), or its equivalent, assigned to an issuer of corporate debt by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization as that term is defined in section 3(a)(62) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Issuer credit rating
means a credit rating assigned to an issuer of corporate debt by S
P Global Ratings, by Moody's Investors Service Inc., by Fitch Ratings, Inc., or by another nationally recognized statistical rating organization, as that term is defined in section 3(a)(62) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Joint bid
means a bid submitted by two or more persons for an oil and gas lease under section 8(a) of the Act.
Lease
means an agreement that is issued under section 8 or maintained under section 6 of the Act and that authorizes exploration for, and development and production of, minerals on the OCS. The term also means the area covered by that agreement, whichever the context requires.
Lease interest
means one or more of the following ownership interests in an OCS oil and gas or sulfur lease: a record title interest, an operating rights interest, or an economic interest.
Lessee
means a person who has entered into a lease with the United States to explore for, develop, and produce the leased minerals and is therefore a record title owner of the lease, or the BOEM-approved assignee-owner of a record title interest. The term lessee also includes the BOEM-approved sublessee- or assignee-owner of an operating rights interest in a lease.
Marine environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the productivity, state, conditions, and quality of the marine ecosystem, including the waters of the high seas, the contiguous zone, transitional and intertidal areas, salt marshes, and wetlands within the coastal zone and on the OCS.
Mineral
means oil, gas, and sulfur; it also includes sand, gravel, and salt used to facilitate the development and production of oil, gas, and sulfur.
Natural gas
means a mixture of hydrocarbons and varying quantities of non-hydrocarbons that exist in the gaseous phase.
Natural gas liquids
means liquefied petroleum products produced from reservoir gas and liquefied at surface separators, field facilities, or gas processing plants worldwide, including any of the following:
(i) Condensate—natural gas liquids recovered from gas well gas (associated and non-associated) in separators or field facilities; or
(ii) Gas plant products—natural gas liquids recovered from natural gas in gas processing plants and from field facilities. Gas plant products include the following, as classified according to the standards of the Natural Gas Processors Association (NGPA) or the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM):
(A) Ethane—C2H6;
(B) Propane—C3H8;
(C) Butane—C4H10, including all products covered by NGPA specifications for commercial butane, including isobutane, normal butane, and other butanes—all butanes not included as isobutane or normal butane;
(D) Butane-Propane Mixtures—All products covered by NGPA specifications for butane-propane mixtures;
(E) Natural Gasoline—A mixture of hydrocarbons extracted from natural gas, that meets vapor pressure, end point, and other specifications for natural gasoline set by NGPA;
(F) Plant Condensate—A natural gas plant product recovered and separated as a liquid at gas inlet separators or scrubbers in processing plants or field facilities; and
(G) Other Natural Gas plant products meeting refined product standards (
i.e.,
gasoline, kerosene, distillate, etc.).
Operating rights
means an interest created by sublease out of the record
title interest in an oil and gas lease, authorizing the owner to explore for, develop, and/or produce the oil and gas contained within a specified area and depth of the lease (
i.e.,
operating rights tract).
Operating rights owner
means the holder of operating rights.
Operating rights tract
means the area within the lease from which the operating rights have been severed on an aliquot basis from the record title interest, defined by a beginning and ending depth.
Operator
means the person designated as having control or management of operations on the leased area or a portion thereof. An operator may be a lessee, the operating rights owner, or a designated agent of the lessee or the operating rights owner.
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)
means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301-1315) and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA)
means the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331-1356a), as amended.
Owned,
as used in the context of restricted joint bidding or a statement of production, means:
(i) With respect to crude oil—having either an economic interest in or a power of disposition over the production of crude oil;
(ii) With respect to natural gas—having either an economic interest in or a power of disposition over the production of natural gas; and
(iii) With respect to natural gas liquids—having either an economic interest in or a power of disposition over any natural gas liquids at the time of completion of the liquefaction process.
Pensacola OPD
means the Official Protraction Diagram (OPD) designated as Pensacola that has a western edge located at the UTM X coordinate 1,393,920 in the NAD27.
Person
means a natural person, where so designated, or an entity, such as a partnership, association, State, political subdivision of a State or territory, or a private, public, or municipal corporation.
Planning area
means a large portion of the OCS, consisting of contiguous OCS blocks, defined for administrative planning purposes.
Predecessor
means a prior lessee or owner of operating rights, or a prior holder of a right-of-use and easement grant or a pipeline right-of-way grant. A predecessor is liable for obligations that accrued or began accruing while it held an ownership interest in that lease or grant.
Primary term or initial period
means the initial period referred to in 43 U.S.C. 1337(b)(2).
Regional Director
means the BOEM officer with responsibility and authority for a Region within BOEM.
Regional Supervisor
means the BOEM officer with responsibility and authority for leasing or other designated program functions within a BOEM Region.
Right-of-Use and Easement (RUE)
means a right to use a portion of the seabed at an OCS site other than on a lease you own, to construct, secure to the seafloor, use, modify, or maintain platforms, seafloor production equipment, artificial islands, facilities, installations, and/or other devices to support the exploration, development, or production of oil, gas, or sulfur resources from an OCS lease or a lease on State submerged lands.
Right-of-Way (ROW)
means an authorization issued by BSEE under the authority of section 5(e) of the OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1334(e)) for the use of submerged lands of the Outer Continental Shelf for pipeline purposes.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an official or a designated employee authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.
Single bid
means a bid submitted by one person for an oil and gas lease under section 8(a) of the Act.
Six-month bidding period
means the 6-month period of time:
(i) From May 1 through October 31; or
(ii) from November 1 through April 30.
Statement of production
means, in the context of joint restricted bidders, the following production during the applicable prior production period:
(i) The average daily production in barrels of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which it owned worldwide;
(ii) The average daily production in barrels of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids owned worldwide by every subsidiary of the reporting person;
(iii) The average daily production in barrels of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids owned worldwide by any person or persons of which the reporting person is a subsidiary; and
(iv) The average daily production in barrels of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids owned worldwide by any subsidiary, other than the reporting person, of any person or persons of which the reporting person is a subsidiary.
Tract
means one or more OCS blocks, or any leasable portion thereof, that will be part of a single oil and gas lease. The term tract may be used interchangeably with the term “bidding unit.”
Transfer
means to convey an ownership interest in an oil, gas, or sulfur lease, ROW grant or RUE grant. For the purposes of this part, “transfer” is synonymous with “assign” and the two terms are used interchangeably.
We, us, and our
mean BOEM or the Department of the Interior, depending on the context in which the word is used.
Western Planning Area (WPA)
means that portion of the Gulf of America that lies south and east of Texas. Precise boundary information is available from the Leasing Division, Mapping and Boundary Branch.
You,
depending on the context of this part, means a bidder, a lessee (record title owner), a sublessee (operating rights owner), a Federal or State RUE grant holder, a pipeline ROW grant holder, an assignor or transferor, a designated operator or agent of the lessee or grant holder, or an applicant seeking to become one of the individuals listed in this definition.
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 70358, Oct. 12, 2016; 89 FR 31580, Apr. 24, 2024; 90 FR 24071, 24072, June 6, 2025]
§ 556.106
Service fees.
(a) The table in this paragraph (a) shows the fees you must pay to BOEM for the services listed. BOEM will adjust the fees periodically according to the Implicit Price Deflator for Gross Domestic Product and publish a document showing the adjustment in the
Federal Register.
If a significant adjustment is needed to arrive at a new fee for any reason other than inflation, then a proposed rule containing the new fees will be published in the
Federal Register
for comment.
Service Fee Table
Service—processing of the following:
Fee amount
30 CFR citation
(1) Assignment of record title interest in Federal oil and gas lease(s) for BOEM approval
$260
§ 556.701(a)
(2) Sublease or Assignment of operating rights interest in Federal oil and gas lease(s) for BOEM approval
$260
§ 556.801(a)
(3) Required document filing for record purpose, but not for BOEM approval
$38
§ 556.715(a)
§ 556.808(a)
(4) Non-required document filing for record purposes
$38
§ 556.715(b)
§ 556.808(b)
(b) Evidence of payment via
pay.gov
of the fees listed in paragraph (a) of this section must accompany the submission of a document for approval or filing, or be sent to an office identified by the Regional Director.
(c) Once a fee is paid, it is nonrefundable, even if your service request is withdrawn.
(d) If your request is returned to you as incomplete, you are not required to submit a new fee with the amended submission.
(e) The
pay.gov
Web site is accessible at
https://www.pay.gov/paygov/
or through the BOEM Web site at
http://www.boem.gov/Fees-for-Services
.
(f) The fees listed in the table above apply equally to any document or information submitted electronically pursuant to part 560, subpart E, of this chapter.
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 52446, Aug. 26, 2022; 89 FR 70493, Aug. 30, 2024]
§ 556.107
Corporate seal requirements.
(a) If you electronically submit to BOEM any document or information referenced in § 560.500 of this chapter, any requirement to use a corporate seal under this chapter will be satisfied, and you will not need to affix your corporate seal to such document or information, if:
(1) You properly file with BOEM a paper, with a corporate seal and the signature of the authorized person(s), stating that electronic submissions made by you will be legally binding, as set forth in § 560.502 of this chapter; and
(2) You make electronic submissions to BOEM through a secure electronic filing system that conforms to the requirements of § 560.500; or,
(b) You may file with BOEM a non-electronic document, containing a corporate seal and the signature of an authorized person(s), attesting that future documents and information filed by you by electronic or non-electronic means will be legally binding without an affixed corporate seal. If you file such a non-electronic attestation document with BOEM, any requirement for use of a corporate seal under the regulations of this chapter will be satisfied, and you will not need to affix your corporate seal to submissions where they would have been otherwise required.
(c) If the State or territory in which you are incorporated does not issue or require corporate seals, the document referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section need not contain a corporate seal, but must still contain the signature of the authorized person(s), a statement that the State in which you are incorporated does not issue or require corporate seals, and a statement that submissions made by you will be legally binding.
(d) Any document, or information submitted without corporate seal must still contain the signature of an individual qualified to sign who has the requisite authority to act on your behalf.
(e) Any document or information submitted pursuant to this section is submitted subject to the penalties of 18 U.S.C. 1001, as amended by the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996.

# Subpart B—Oil and Gas Five Year Leasing Program
§ 556.200
What is the Five Year leasing program?
Section 18(a) of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1344(a)), requires the Secretary to prepare an oil and gas leasing program that consists of a five-year schedule of proposed lease sales to best meet national energy needs, showing the size, timing, and location of leasing activity as precisely as possible. BOEM prepares the five year schedule of proposed lease sales consistent with the principles set out in section 18(a)(1) and (2)(A)-(H) of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1344(a)(1) and (2)(A)-(H)) to obtain a proper balance among the potential for environmental damage, the potential for the discovery of oil and gas, and the potential for adverse impact on the coastal zone, as required by OCSLA section 18(a)(3) (43 U.S.C. 1344(a)(3)).
§ 556.201
Does BOEM consider multiple uses of the OCS?
BOEM gathers information about multiple uses of the OCS in order to assist the Secretary in making decisions on the 5-year program pursuant to provisions of 43 U.S.C. 1344. For this purpose, BOEM invites and considers suggestions from States and local governments, industry, and any other interested parties, primarily through public notice and comment procedures. BOEM also invites and considers suggestions from Federal agencies.
§ 556.202
How does BOEM start the Five Year program preparation process?
To begin preparation of the Five Year program, BOEM invites and considers nominations for any areas to be included or excluded from leasing, by doing the following:
(a) BOEM prepares and makes public official protraction diagrams and leasing maps of OCS areas. In any area
properly included in the official Five Year diagrams and maps, any area not already leased for oil and gas may be offered for lease.
(b) BOEM invites and considers suggestions and relevant information from governors of States, local governments, industry, Federal agencies, and other interested parties, through a publication of a request for information in the
Federal Register.
Any local government must first submit its comments on the request for information to its State governor before sending the comments to BOEM.
(c) BOEM sends a letter to the governor of each affected State asking the governor to identify specific laws, goals, and policies that should be considered. Each State governor, as well as the Department of Commerce, is requested to identify the relationship between any oil and gas activity and the State under sections 305 and 306 of the CZMA, 16 U.S.C. 1454 and 1455.
(d) BOEM asks the Department of Energy for information on regional and national energy markets and transportation networks.
§ 556.203
What does BOEM do before publishing a proposed Five Year program?
After considering the comments and information described in § 556.202, BOEM will prepare a draft proposed Five Year program.
(a) At least 60 days before publication of a proposed program, BOEM will send a letter, together with the draft proposed program, to the governor of each affected State, inviting the governor to comment on the draft proposed program.
(b) A governor, whether for purposes of preparing that State's comments or otherwise, may solicit comments from local governments that he determines may be affected by an oil and gas leasing program.
(c) If a governor's comments on the draft proposed program are received by BOEM at least 15 days before submission of the proposed program to Congress and its publication for comment in the
Federal Register,
BOEM will reply to the governor in writing.
§ 556.204
How do governments and citizens comment on a proposed Five Year program?
BOEM publishes the proposed program in the
Federal Register
for comment by the public. At the same time, BOEM sends the proposed program to the governors of the affected States and to Congress and the Attorney General of the United States for review and comment.
(a) Governors are responsible for providing a copy of the proposed program to affected local governments in their States. Local governments may comment directly to BOEM, but must also send their comments to the governor of their State.
(b) All comments from any party are due within 90 days after publication of the request for comments in the
Federal Register
.
§ 556.205
What does BOEM do before approving a proposed final Five Year program or a significant revision of a previously-approved Five Year program?
At least 60 days before the Secretary may approve a proposed final Five Year program or a significant revision to a previously approved final Five Year program, BOEM will submit a proposed final program or proposed significant revision to the President and Congress. BOEM will also submit comments received and indicate the reasons why BOEM did or did not accept any specific recommendation of the Attorney General of the United States, the governor of a State, or the executive of a local government.

# Subpart C—Planning and Holding a Lease Sale
§ 556.300
What reports may BOEM and other Federal agencies prepare before a lease sale?
For an oil and gas lease sale in a Five Year program, and as the need arises for other mineral leasing pursuant to part 581 of this chapter, BOEM will prepare a report describing the general geology and potential mineral resources of the area under consideration. The Director may request other interested Federal agencies to prepare reports describing, to the extent known, any
other valuable resources contained within the general area and the potential effect of mineral operations upon the resources or upon the total environment or other uses of the area.
§ 556.301
What is a Call for Information and Nominations?
BOEM issues a Call for Information and Nominations (“Call”) on an area proposed for leasing in the Five Year program through publication in the
Federal Register
and other publications. A Call may include more than one proposed sale. Comments are requested from industry and the public on:
(a) Industry interest in the area proposed for leasing, including nominations or indications of interest in specific blocks within the area;
(b) Geological conditions, including bottom hazards;
(c) Archaeological sites on the seabed or near shore;
(d) Potential multiple uses of the proposed leasing area, including navigation, recreation, and fisheries;
(e) Areas that should receive special concern and analysis; and
(f) Other socioeconomic, biological, and environmental information.
§ 556.302
What does BOEM do with the information from the Call?
(a) Based upon information and nominations received in response to the Call, and in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies, the Director will develop a recommendation of areas proposed for leasing for the Secretary for further consideration for leasing and/or environmental analysis.
(1) In developing the recommendation, the Director will consider available information concerning the environment, conflicts with other uses, resource potential, industry interest, and other relevant information, including comments received from State and local governments and other interested parties in response to the Call.
(2) The Director, on his/her own motion, may include in the recommendation areas in which interest has not been indicated in response to a Call. In making a recommendation, the Director will consider all available environmental information.
(3) Upon approval by the Secretary, the Director will announce the area identified in the
Federal Register
.
(b) BOEM will evaluate the area(s) identified for further consideration for the potential effects of leasing on the human, marine, and coastal environments, and may develop measures to mitigate adverse impacts, including lease stipulations, for the options to be analyzed. The Director may hold public hearings on the environmental analysis after an appropriate notice.
(c) BOEM will seek to inform the public, as soon as possible, of changes from the area(s) proposed for leasing that occur after the Call process.
(d) Upon request, the Director will provide relative indications of interest in areas, as well as any comments filed in response to a Call for a proposed sale. However, no information transmitted will identify any particular area with the name of any particular party so as not to compromise the competitive position of any participants in the process of indicating interest.
(e) For supplemental sales provided for by § 556.308, the Director's recommendation will be replaced by a statement describing the results of the Director's consideration of the factors specified above in this section.
§ 556.303
What does BOEM do if an area proposed for leasing is within three nautical miles of the seaward boundary of a coastal State?
For an area proposed for leasing that is within three nautical miles of the seaward boundary of a coastal State, as governed by section 8(g)(1) of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1337(g)(1)):
(a) BOEM provides the governor of the coastal State, subject to the confidentiality requirements in this chapter:
(1) A schedule for leasing; and
(2) An estimate of the potential oil and gas resources.
(b) At the request of the governor of a coastal State, BOEM will provide to that governor, subject to the confidentiality requirements in this chapter:
(1) Information concerning geographical, geological, and ecological characteristics; and
(2) An identification of any field, geological structure, or trap, or portion
thereof, that lies within three nautical miles of the State's boundary.
§ 556.304
How is a proposed notice of sale prepared?
(a) The Director will, in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies, develop measures, including lease stipulations and conditions, to mitigate adverse impacts on the environment, which will be contained, or referenced, in the proposed notice of sale.
(b) A proposed notice of sale will be submitted to the Secretary for approval. All comments and recommendations received and the Director's findings or actions thereon, will also be forwarded to the Secretary.
(c) Upon approval by the Secretary, BOEM will send a proposed notice of sale to the governors of affected States and publish the notice of its availability in the
Federal Register.
The proposed notice of sale references or provides a link to the lease form, and contains a description of the area proposed for leasing, the proposed lease terms and conditions of sale, and proposed stipulations to mitigate potential adverse impacts on the environment.
§ 556.305
How does BOEM coordinate and consult with States regarding a proposed notice of sale?
(a) Within 60 days after receiving the proposed notice of sale, governors of affected States may submit comments and recommendations to BOEM regarding the size, timing, and location of the proposed sale. Local governments may comment to BOEM directly, but must also send their comments to the governor of their State.
(b) BOEM will provide a consistency determination under the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) (16 U.S.C. 1456) to each State with an approved coastal zone management program that will determine whether the proposed sale is consistent, to the maximum extent practicable, with the enforceable policies of the State's approved coastal zone management program.
§ 556.306
What if a potentially oil- or gas-bearing area underlies both the OCS and lands subject to State jurisdiction?
(a) Whenever the Director or the governor of a coastal State determines that a common potentially hydrocarbon-bearing area may underlie the Federal OCS and State submerged lands, the Director or the governor will notify the other party in writing of the determination.
(b) Thereafter the Director will provide to the governor of the coastal State, subject to the confidentiality requirements in this chapter:
(1) An identification of the areas proposed for leasing and a schedule for, leasing; and
(2) An estimate of the oil and gas resources.
(c) At the request of the governor of the coastal State, the Director will provide to such governor, subject to the confidentiality requirements in this chapter:
(1) All geographical, geological, and ecological characteristics of the areas proposed for leasing; and
(2) An identification of any field, geological structure, or trap that lies within 3 miles of the State's seaward boundary.
(d) If BOEM intends to lease such blocks or tracts, the Director and the governor of the coastal State may enter into an agreement for the equitable disposition of the revenues from production of any common potentially hydrocarbon-bearing area, pursuant to OCSLA section 8(g)(3) (43 U.S.C. 1337(g)(3)). Any revenues received by the United States under such an agreement are subject to the requirements of OSCLA section 8(g)(2) (43 U.S.C. 1337(g)(2)).
(e) If the Director and the governor do not enter into an agreement under paragraph (d) of this section within 90 days, BOEM may nevertheless proceed with the leasing of the tracts, in which case all revenues will be deposited in a separate account in the Treasury of the United States, pending disposition of 27% (twenty-seven percent) of the revenues to the relevant coastal state(s), pursuant to the requirements of OCSLA section 8(g)(2). (43 U.S.C. 1337(g)(2)).
§ 556.307
What does BOEM do with comments and recommendations received on the proposed notice of sale?
(a) BOEM will consider all comments and recommendations received in response to the proposed notice of sale.
(b) If the Secretary determines, after providing opportunity for consultation, that a governor's comments, and those of any affected local government, provide a reasonable balance between the national interest and the well-being of the citizens of the State, the Secretary will accept the recommendations of a State and/or local government(s). Any such determination of the national interest will be based on the findings, purposes and policies of the Act set forth in 43 U.S.C. 1332 and 43 U.S.C. 1801.
(c) BOEM will send to each governor written reasons for its determination to accept or reject each governor's recommendation, and/or to implement any alternative means to provide for a reasonable balance between the national interest and the interests of the citizens of the State.
§ 556.308
How does BOEM conduct a lease sale?
(a) BOEM publishes a final notice of sale in the
Federal Register
and in other publications, as appropriate, at least 30 days before the date of the sale. The final notice:
(1) States the place, time, and method for filing bids and the place, date, and hour for opening bids; and
(2) Contains or references a description of the areas offered for lease, the lease terms and conditions of sale, and stipulations to mitigate potential adverse impacts on the environment.
(b) Oil and gas tracts are offered for lease by competitive sealed bid in accordance with the terms and conditions in the final notice of sale and applicable laws and regulations.
(c) Unless BOEM finds that a larger area is necessary for reasonable economic production, no individual tract for oil and gas leasing will exceed 5,760 acres in area. If BOEM finds that an area larger than 5,760 acres is necessary in any particular area, the size of any such tract will be specified in the final notice of sale.
(d) The final notice of sale references, or provides a link to, the OCS lease form which will be issued to successful bidders.
§ 556.309
Does BOEM offer blocks in a sale that is not on the Five Year program schedule (called a Supplemental Sale)?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, BOEM may offer a block within a planning area included in the Five Year program in an otherwise unscheduled sale, if the block:
(1) Received a bid that was rejected in an earlier sale;
(2) Had a high bid that was forfeited in a scheduled sale; or
(3) Is a development block subject to drainage.
(b) For an unscheduled sale, BOEM may disclose the classification of the block as a development block.
(c) Blocks in the Central or Western Gulf of America Planning Areas cannot be offered in a sale that is not on the schedule.
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 90 FR 24071, June 6, 2025]

# Subpart D—Qualifications
§ 556.400
When must I demonstrate that I am qualified to hold a lease on the OCS?
In order to bid on, own, hold, or operate a lease on the OCS, bidders, record title holders, and operating rights owners must first obtain a qualification number from BOEM.
§ 556.401
What do I need to show to become qualified to hold a lease on the OCS and obtain a qualification number?
(a) You may become qualified to hold a lease on the OCS and obtain a qualification number in accordance with § 556.402, if you submit evidence demonstrating that you are:
(1) A natural person who is a citizen or national of the United States;
(2) A natural person who is an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States, as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20);
(3) A private, public, or municipal corporation or Limited Liability Company or Limited Liability Corporation
(either/both sometimes herein referred to as “LLC”) organized under the laws of any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any territory or insular possession subject to United States jurisdiction;
(4) An association of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens, or corporations;
(5) A State, the District of Columbia, or any territory or insular possession subject to United States jurisdiction;
(6) A political subdivision of a State, the District of Columbia, or any territory or insular possession subject to United States jurisdiction; or
(7) A Trust organized under the laws of any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any territory or insular possession subject to United States jurisdiction;
(b) Statements and evidence submitted to demonstrate qualification under paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section are subject to the penalties of 18 U.S.C. 1001.
(b) BOEM may issue you a qualification number after you have provided evidence acceptable to BOEM.
§ 556.402
How do I make the necessary showing to qualify and obtain a qualification number?
(a) If BOEM has already issued you a qualification number, you may present that number to BOEM. If not, in order to become qualified, you must provide the information in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section before BOEM will issue you a BOEM qualification number.
(b) A natural person must be a citizen or national of the United States, or a resident alien, to qualify. A United States citizen or national must submit written evidence acceptable to BOEM attesting to United States citizenship or national status. A resident alien must submit an original or a photocopy of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services form evidencing legal status as a resident alien.
(c) A person who is not a natural person must submit evidence (refer to paragraph (d) of this section) acceptable to BOEM that:
(1) It is authorized to conduct business under the laws of a State, the District of Columbia, or any territory or insular possession subject to United States jurisdiction under which it is organized;
(2) Under the operating rules of its business, it is authorized to hold OCS leases; and
(3) Includes an up-to-date list of persons, and their titles, who are authorized to bind the corporation, association or other entity when conducting business on the OCS. It is up to you, in accordance with your organizational structure or rules, to identify the individual, or group of individuals, who has actual authority to bind your organization, and the title(s) they will use when they sign documents to bind the organization. You must maintain and regularly update the information as to who has the authority to bind the organization whenever that information changes.
(d) Acceptable evidence under paragraph (c) of this section includes, but is not limited to:
(1) For a corporation,
(i) A statement by the Secretary of the corporation, over corporate seal, certifying that the corporation is authorized to hold OCS leases; and
(ii) Evidence of authority of holders of positions entitled to bind the corporation, certified by Secretary of the corporation, over corporate seal, such as:
(A) Certified copy of resolution of the board of directors with titles of officers authorized to bind corporation;
(B) Certified copy of resolutions granting corporate officer authority to issue a power of attorney; or
(C) Certified copy of power of attorney or certified copy of resolution granting power of attorney.
(2) For a Limited or General Partnership,
(i) A statement by an authorized party certifying that the partnership is authorized to hold OCS leases;
(ii) A copy of your signed partnership formation documents, including a partnership agreement;
(iii) A statement from each partner indicating, as appropriate, U.S. citizenship or incorporation or organization under the laws of a State, the District of Columbia, or any territory or insular possession subject to U.S. jurisdiction; and
(iv) Documentation evidencing the existence of the partnership and that it was properly created, either from the Secretary of State of the State in which the partnership is registered or by an equivalent State or governmental office.
(3) For a Limited Liability Company or Limited Liability Corporation,
(i) A certificate of formation of the LLC;
(ii) A statement by an individual authorized to bind the LLC, as listed under (c)(4) above, certifying that the LLC is authorized to hold OCS leases;
(iii) A statement from each member indicating, as appropriate, U.S. citizenship, or incorporation or organization under the laws of a State, the District of Columbia, or any territory or insular possession subject to U.S. jurisdiction; and
(iv) Evidence of authority of holders of positions entitled to bind the LLC, certified by an individual authorized to bind the LLC.
(4) For a Trust,
(i) A copy of the trust agreement or document establishing the trust and all amendments, properly certified by the trustee; and
(ii) A statement indicating the law under which the trust is established and that the trust is authorized to hold OCS leases.
(e) In the event that a person may be eligible to hold OCS leases, but that type of person is not listed in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, evidence of such eligibility will be submitted and certified by the highest level of management of the person authorized to do so pursuant to its operating agreement or governance documents.
(f) Any person who obtains a qualification number from BOEM is responsible to ensure that it is not using the qualification number approved by BOEM for any purpose that its operating rules do not allow.
(g) Any evidence submitted in response to paragraphs (c), (d), or (e) of this section is submitted subject to 18 U.S.C. 1001.
(h) A person may not hold leases on the OCS until the evidence requested in this section has been accepted and approved by BOEM and BOEM has issued a qualification number to that person.
(i) If use of a corporate seal is required by this section, you may meet the requirement as specified in § 556.107.
§ 556.403
Under what circumstances may I be disqualified from acquiring a lease or an interest in a lease on the OCS?
You may be disqualified from acquiring a lease or an interest in a lease on the OCS if:
(a) You or your principals are excluded or disqualified from participating in a transaction covered by Federal non-procurement debarment and suspension (2 CFR parts 180 and 1400), unless the Department explicitly approves an exception for a transaction pursuant to the regulations in those parts;
(b) The Secretary finds, after notice and hearing, that you or your principals (including in the meaning of “you,” for purposes of this subparagraph, a bidder or prospective bidder) fail to meet due diligence requirements or to exercise due diligence under section 8(d) of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1337(d)) on any OCS lease; or
(c) BOEM disqualifies you from acquiring a lease or an interest in a lease on the OCS based on your unacceptable operating performance. BOEM will give you adequate notice and opportunity for a hearing before imposing a disqualification, unless BSEE has already provided such notice and opportunity for a hearing.
[81 FR 34275, May 31, 2016]
§ 556.404
What do the non-procurement debarment rules require that I do?
You must comply with the Department's non-procurement debarment regulations at 2 CFR parts 180 and 1400.
(a) You must notify BOEM if you know that you or your principals are excluded, disqualified, have been convicted or are indicted of a crime as described in 2 CFR part 180, subpart C. You must make this notification before you sign a lease, sublease, or an assignment of record title interest or operating rights interest, or become a lease or unit operator. This paragraph does
not apply if you have previously provided a statement disclosing this information, and you have received an exception from the Department, as described in 2 CFR 180.135 and 2 CFR 1400.137.
(b) If you wish to enter into a covered transaction with another person at a lower tier, as described in 2 CFR 180.200, you must first:
(1) Verify that the person is not excluded or disqualified under 2 CFR part 180; and
(2) Require the person to:
(i) Comply with 2 CFR part 180, subpart C; and
(ii) Include the obligation to comply with 2 CFR part 180, subpart C in its contracts and other transactions.
(c) After you enter into a covered transaction, you must immediately notify BOEM in writing if you learn that:
(1) You failed to disclose pertinent information earlier; or
(2) Due to changed circumstances, you or your principals now meet any of the criteria in 2 CFR 180.800.
§ 556.405
When must I notify BOEM of mergers, name changes, or changes of business form?
You must notify BOEM of any merger, name change, or change of business form as soon as practicable, but in no case later than one year after the earlier of the effective date or the date of filing the change or action with the Secretary of State or other authorized official in the State of original registry.

# Subpart E—Issuance of a Lease

# How To Bid
§ 556.500
Once qualified, how do I submit a bid?
(a) You must submit a separate sealed bid for each tract or bidding unit to the address provided and by the time specified in the final notice of sale. You may not bid on less than an entire tract or bidding unit.
(b) BOEM requires a deposit for each bid. The final notice of sale will specify the amount and method of payment.
(c) Unless otherwise specified in the final notice of sale, the bid deposit amount will be 20 percent of the amount of the bid for any given tract or bidding unit.
(d) You may not submit a bid on an OCS tract if, after notice and hearing under section 8(d) of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1337(d)), the Secretary finds that you are not meeting the diligence requirements on any OCS lease.
(e) If the authorized officer within BOEM rejects your high bid, the decision is final for the Department, subject only to reconsideration upon your written request as set out in § 556.517.
§ 556.501
What information do I need to submit with my bid?
In accordance with OCSLA section 18(a)(4) (43 U.S.C. 1344(a)(4)), BOEM must evaluate every bid to ensure that the federal government receives fair market value for every lease. Section 26(a)(1)(A) of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1352(a)(1)(A)) provides that, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary, any lessee or permittee conducting any exploration for, or development or production of, oil or gas must provide the Secretary access to all data and information (including processed, analyzed, and interpreted information) obtained from that activity and must provide copies of that data and information as the Secretary may request.
(a) As part of the lease sale process, every bidder submitting a bid on a tract, or participating as a joint bidder in such a bid, may at the time of bid be required to submit various information, including a Geophysical Data and Information Statement (GDIS) corresponding to that tract, as well as the bidder's exclusive/proprietary geophysical data in order for BOEM to properly evaluate the bid. If a GDIS required, each GDIS must include, as required by § 551.12(b) and (c) of this chapter:
(1) A list of geophysical surveys or other information used as part of the decision to bid or participate in a bid on the block.
(2) An accurate and complete record of each geophysical survey conducted, including digital navigational data and final location maps. The bidder and any joint bidder must include a map for each survey identified in the GDIS
that illustrates the actual areal extent of the proprietary geophysical data.
(b) If a bidder is required to submit a GDIS, the GDIS must be submitted even if the bidder did not rely on proprietary geophysical data and information in deciding to bid or participate as a joint bidder in the bid for any particular block, and must include entries for all such blocks.
(c) The bidder must submit each GDIS in a separate and sealed envelope, or in an electronically readable spreadsheet format, with proprietary seismic data maps also available in an electronic format. Each bidder must submit the GDIS even if its joint bidder or bidders on a specific block also have submitted a GDIS.
(d) If BOEM requires additional information related to bidding, it will describe the additional information requirements in the final notice of sale.
(e) BOEM will reimburse bidders for the costs of complying with the requirements of this section, in accordance with § 550.196 (on lease) and/or § 551.13 (off lease) of this chapter.
(f) Bids that are not made in compliance with this section will be considered incomplete and invalid.

# Restrictions on Joint Bidding
§ 556.511
Are there restrictions on bidding with others and do those restrictions affect my ability to bid?
The Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, 42 U.S.C. 6213, prohibits joint bidding by major oil and gas producers under certain circumstances. BOEM implements 42 U.S.C. 6213 as follows:
(a) BOEM publishes twice yearly in the
Federal Register
a restricted joint bidders list. A person appearing on this list is limited in its ability to submit a joint bid. The list:
(1) Consists of the persons chargeable with an average worldwide daily production in excess of 1.6 million barrels of crude oil and/or its equivalent in natural gas liquids and natural gas for the prior production period; and
(2) Is based upon the statement of production that filed as required by § 556.513.
(b) If BOEM places you on the restricted joint bidders list, BOEM will send you a copy of the order placing you on the list. You may appeal this order to the Interior Board of Land Appeals under 30 CFR part 590, subpart A.
(c) If you are listed in the
Federal Register
in any group of restricted bidders, you may not bid:
(1) Jointly with another person in any other group of restricted bidders for the applicable 6-month bidding period; or
(2) Separately during the 6-month bidding period if you have an agreement with another restricted bidder that will result in joint ownership in an OCS lease.
(d) If you are listed in the
Federal Register
in any group of restricted bidders, you may not make any pre-bidding agreement for the conveyance of any potential lease interest, whether by assignment, sale, transfer, or other means, to any person on the list of restricted joint bidders.
(e) Even if you are not listed in the
Federal Register
in any group of restricted bidders, you are prohibited from making any pre-bidding agreement for the assignment, sale, transfer, or other conveyance of any potential lease interest to two or more persons in different groups on the list of restricted joint bidders.
(f) As a bidder, you are prohibited from unlawful combination with, or intimidation of, bidders under 18 U.S.C. 1860.
§ 556.512
What bids may be disqualified?
The following bids for any oil and gas lease will be disqualified and rejected in their entirety:
(a) A joint bid submitted by two or more persons who are on the effective List of Restricted Joint Bidders; or
(b) A joint bid submitted by two or more persons when:
(1) One or more of those persons is chargeable for the prior production period with an average daily production in excess of 1.6 million barrels of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids and has not filed a Statement of Production, as required by § 556.513 of this part for the applicable 6-month bidding period, or
(2) Any of those persons have failed or refused to file a detailed report of
production when required to do so under § 556.513, or
(c) A single or joint bid submitted pursuant to an agreement (whether written or oral, formal or informal, entered into or arranged prior to or simultaneously with the submission of such single or joint bid, or prior to or simultaneously with the award of the bid upon the tract) that provides:
(1) For the assignment, transfer, sale, or other conveyance of less than a 100 percent interest in the entire tract on which the bid is submitted, by a person or persons on the List of Restricted Joint Bidders, effective on the date of submission of the bid, to another person or persons on the same List of Restricted Joint Bidders; or
(2) For the assignment, sale, transfer or other conveyance of less than a 100 percent interest in any fractional interest in the entire tract (which fractional interest was originally acquired by the person making the assignment, sale, transfer or other conveyance, under the provisions of the act) by a person or persons on the List of Restricted Joint Bidders, effective on the date of submission of the bid, to another person or persons on the same List of Restricted Joint Bidders; or
(3) For the assignment, sale, transfer, or other conveyance of any interest in a tract by a person or persons not on the List of Restricted Joint Bidders, effective on the date of submission of the bid, to two or more persons on the same List of Restricted Joint Bidders; or
(4) For any of the types of conveyances described in paragraphs (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section where any party to the conveyance is chargeable for the prior production period with an average daily production in excess of 1.6 million barrels of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids and has not filed a Statement of Production pursuant to § 556.513 for the applicable six-month bidding period. Assignments expressly required by law, regulation, lease or lease stipulation will not disqualify an otherwise qualified bid; or
(d) A bid submitted by or in conjunction with a person who has filed a false, fraudulent or otherwise intentionally false or misleading detailed Report of Production.
§ 556.513
When must I file a statement of production?
(a) You must file a statement of production if your average worldwide daily production exceeded 1.6 million barrels for the prior production period, as determined using the method set forth in § 556.514. Your statement of production must specify that you were chargeable with an average daily production in excess of 1.6 million barrels for the prior production period.
(b) The prior production periods are as follows:
For the bidding period of
The prior production period is the
preceding
(1) May through October
July through December.
(2) November through April
January through June.
(c) You must file the statement of production by the following deadlines:
For the bidding period of
You must file the statement by
(1) May through October
March 17.
(2) November through April
September 17.
(d) If you are required to file a statement of production, BOEM may require you to submit a detailed report of production.
(1) The detailed report of production must list crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas produced worldwide from reservoirs during the prior production period, and therefore chargeable to the prior production period.
(i) The amount of crude oil chargeable to the prior production period will be established by measurement of volumes delivered at the point of custody transfer (e.g., from storage tanks to pipelines, trucks, tankers, or other media for transport to refineries or terminals), with adjustments for net differences between opening and closing inventories, and basic sediment and water.
(ii) The amount of natural gas liquids chargeable to the prior production period must include gas liquefied at surface separators, field facilities, or gas processing plants.
(iii) The amount of natural gas chargeable to the prior production period must include adjustments, where applicable, to reflect the volume of gas returned to natural reservoirs, and the
reduction of volume resulting from the removal of natural gas liquids and non-hydrocarbon gases.
(2) You must submit the detailed report of production within 30 days after receiving BOEM's request.
(3) BOEM may inspect and copy any document, record of production, analysis, and other material to verify the accuracy of any earlier statement of production.
(e) If you submit a statement of production that misrepresents your chargeable production, the Department may cancel any lease awarded in reliance upon the statement.
§ 556.514
How do I determine my production for purposes of the restricted joint bidders list?
(a) To determine the amount of production chargeable to you, add together:
(1) Your average daily production in barrels of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas worldwide, all measured at 60 °F, using the equivalency or conversion factors for natural gas liquids and natural gas set out in 42 U.S.C. 6213(b)(2) and (3); and
(2) Your proportionate share of the average daily production owned by any person that has an interest in you and/or in which you have an interest.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, your production includes 100 percent of production owned by:
(1) You;
(2) Every subsidiary of yours;
(3) Every person of which you are a subsidiary; and
(4) Every subsidiary of any person of which you are a subsidiary.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, interest means at least a five percent ownership or control of you or the reporting person and includes any interest:
(1) From ownership of securities or other evidence of ownership; or,
(2) By participation in any contract, agreement, or understanding regarding control of the person or their production of crude oil, natural gas liquids, or natural gas.
(d) For purposes of this section, subsidiary means a person, 50 percent or more of whose stock or other interest having power to vote for the election of a controlling body, such as directors or trustees, is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another person.
(e) For purposes of this section, production chargeable to you includes, but is not limited to, production obtained as a result of a production payment or a working, net profit, royalty, overriding royalty, or carried interest.
(f) For purposes of this section, production must be measured with appropriate adjustments for:
(1) Basic sediment and water;
(2) Removal of natural gas liquids and non-hydrocarbon gases; and
(3) Volume of gas returned to natural reservoirs.
§ 556.515
May a person be exempted from joint bidding restrictions?
BOEM may exempt you from some or all of the reporting requirements listed in § 556.513, and/or some or all of the joint bidding restrictions listed in §§ 556.511 and/or 556.512(a), (b), and/or (c), if, after opportunity for a hearing, BOEM determines that the extremely high costs in an area will preclude exploration and development without an exemption.

# How Does BOEM Act on Bids?
§ 556.516
What does BOEM do with my bid?
(a) BOEM opens the sealed bids at the place, date, and hour specified in the final notice of sale for the sole purpose of publicly announcing and recording the bids. BOEM does not accept or reject any bids at that time.
(b) BOEM reserves the right to reject any and all bids received, regardless of the amount offered. BOEM accepts or rejects all bids within 90 days of opening. BOEM reserves the right to extend that time if necessary, and in that event, BOEM will notify bidder(s) in writing prior to the expiration of the initial 90-day period, or of any extension. Any bid not accepted within the prescribed 90-day period, or any extension thereof, will be deemed rejected. If your bid is rejected, BOEM will refund any money deposited with your bid, plus any interest accrued.
(c) If the highest bids are a tie, BOEM will notify the bidders who submitted the tie bids. Within 15 days after notification, those bidders, if qualified, and not otherwise prohibited from bidding together, may:
(1) Agree to accept the lease jointly. The bidders must notify BOEM of their decision and submit a copy of their agreement to accept the lease jointly.
(2) Agree between/among themselves which bidder will accept the lease. The bidders must notify BOEM of their decision.
(d) If no agreement is submitted pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, BOEM will reject all the tie bids.
(e) The Attorney General, in consultation with the Federal Trade Commission, has 30 days to review the results of the lease sale before BOEM may accept the bid(s) and issue the lease(s).
§ 556.517
What may I do if my high bid is rejected?
(a) The decision of the authorized officer on bids is the final action of the Department, subject only to reconsideration of the rejection of the high bid by the Director, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Within 15 days of bid rejection, you may file a written request for reconsideration with the Director, with a copy to the authorized officer. Such request must provide evidence as to why the Director should reconsider your bid. You will receive a written response either affirming or reversing the rejection of your bid.
(c) The Director's decision on the request for reconsideration is not subject to appeal to the Interior Board of Land Appeals in the Department's Office of Hearings and Appeals.

# Awarding the Lease
§ 556.520
What happens if I am the successful high bidder and BOEM accepts my bid?
(a) If BOEM accepts your bid, BOEM will provide you with the appropriate number of copies of the lease for you to execute and return to BOEM. Within 11 business days after you receive the lease copies, you must:
(1) Execute all copies of the lease;
(2) Pay the first year's rental;
(3) Pay the balance of the bonus bid, unless deferred under paragraph (b) below;
(4) Comply with subpart I of this part; and,
(5) Return all copies of the executed lease, including any required bond or other form of security approved by the Regional Director, to BOEM.
(b) If provided for in the final notice of sale, BOEM may defer any part of the bonus and bid payment for up to five years after the sale according to a schedule included in the final notice of sale. You must provide a bond acceptable to BOEM to guarantee payment of a deferred bonus bid.
(c) If you do not make the required payments and execute and return all copies of the lease and any required bond within 11 business days after receipt, or if you otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, your deposit will be forfeited. However, BOEM will return any deposit with interest if the tract is withdrawn from leasing before you execute the lease.
(d) If you use an agent to execute the lease, you must include evidence with the executed copies of the lease that a person who is on the list of persons referenced in § 556.402(c)(3) authorized the agent to act for you.
(e) After you comply with all requirements in this section, and after BOEM has executed the lease, BOEM will send you a fully executed lease.
§ 556.521
When is my lease effective?
Your lease is effective on the first day of the month following the date that BOEM executes the lease. You may request in writing, before BOEM executes the lease, that your lease be effective as of the first day of the month in which BOEM executes the lease. If BOEM agrees to make the lease effective as of the earlier date, BOEM will so indicate when it executes the lease.
§ 556.522
What are the terms and conditions of the lease and when are they published?
The terms and conditions of the lease will be stated in the final notice of sale and contained in the lease instrument itself. Oil and gas leases and leases for
sulfur will be issued on forms approved by the Director.

# Subpart F—Lease Term and Obligations

# Length of Lease
§ 556.600
What is the primary term of my oil and gas lease?
(a) The primary term of an oil and gas lease will be five years, unless BOEM determines that:
(1) The lease is located in unusually deep water or involves other unusually adverse conditions; and,
(2) A lease term longer than five years is necessary to explore and develop the lease.
(b) If BOEM determines that the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are met, it may specify a longer primary term, not to exceed 10 years.
(c) BOEM will specify the primary term in the final notice of sale and in the lease instrument.
(d) The lease will expire at the end of the primary term, unless maintained beyond that term in accordance with the provisions of § 556.601.
§ 556.601
How may I maintain my oil and gas lease beyond the primary term?
You may maintain your oil and gas lease beyond the expiration of the primary term as long as:
(a) You are producing oil or gas in paying quantities;
(b) You are conducting approved drilling or well reworking operations with the objective of establishing production in paying quantities, in accordance with 30 CFR 250.180;
(c) You are producing from, or drilling or reworking, an approved well adjacent to or adjoining your lease that extends directionally into your lease in accordance with 30 CFR 256.71;
(d) You make compensatory payments on your lease in accordance with 30 CFR 256.72;
(e) Your lease is included in a BSEE-approved unit, in accordance with 30 CFR part 250, subpart M; or
(f) Your lease is subject to a suspension of production or a suspension of operations, in accordance with 30 CFR 250.168 through 250.180, for reasons other than gross negligence or a willful violation of a provision of your lease or any governing regulations.
§ 556.602
What is the primary term of my sulfur lease?
(a) Your sulfur lease will have a primary term of not more than 10 years, as specified in the lease.
(b) BOEM will announce the primary term prior to the lease sale.
(c) The lease will expire at the end of the primary term unless maintained beyond that term in accordance with the provisions of § 556.603.
§ 556.603
How may I maintain my sulfur lease beyond the primary term?
You may maintain your sulfur lease after the primary term as long as you are producing sulfur in paying quantities, conducting drilling, well reworking or plant construction, or other operations for the production of sulfur or you are granted a suspension by BSEE; or your lease is subject to a suspension directed by BSEE for reasons other than gross negligence or a willful violation of a provision of your lease or governing regulations.

# Lease Obligations
§ 556.604
What are my rights and obligations as a record title owner?
(a) As a record title owner, you are responsible for all administrative and operating performance on the lease, including paying any rent and royalty due.
(b)(1) A record title owner owns operating rights to the lease, unless and until he or she severs the operating rights by subleasing them to someone else.
(2) A sublease of operating rights from record title may be for a whole or undivided fractional interest in the entire lease or a described aliquot portion of the lease and/or a depth interval. The sublease creates an operating rights interest in the sublessee, herein referred to as the operating rights owner.
(c) Within any given aliquot, the record title owner may sublease operating rights for up to a maximum of two depth divisions, which may result
in a maximum of three different depth intervals. But, if the one, or two, depth divisions to which operating rights are subleased do not include the entire depth of the lease, whatever depth division(s) has not been subleased, remains part of the lessee/sublessor's record title interest. The depth intervals for which operating rights are subleased must be defined by a beginning and ending depth and the ending of one depth level must abut the beginning of the next depth level, with no gap in between.
(d) Every current and prior record title owner is jointly and severally liable, along with all other record title owners and all prior and current operating rights owners, for compliance with all non-monetary terms and conditions of the lease and all regulations issued under OCSLA, as well as for fulfilling all non-monetary obligations, including decommissioning obligations, which accrue while it holds record title interest.
(e) Record title owners that acquired their record title interests through assignment from a prior record title owner are also responsible for remedying all existing environmental or operational problems on any lease in which they own record title interests, with subrogation rights against prior lessees.
(f) For monetary obligations, your obligation depends on the source of the monetary obligation and whether you have retained or severed your operating rights.
(1) With respect to those operating rights that you have retained, you are primarily liable under 30 U.S.C. 1712(a) for your pro-rata share of all other monetary obligations pertaining to that portion of the lease subject to the operating rights you have retained, based on your share of operating rights in that portion of the lease.
(2) With respect to all monetary obligations arising from or in connection with those operating rights that have been severed from your record title interest, your obligation is secondary to that of the sublessee(s) or later assignee(s) of the operating rights that were severed from your record title interest, as prescribed in 30 U.S.C. 1712(a).
§ 556.605
What are my rights and obligations as an operating rights owner?
(a) As an operating rights owner, you have the right to enter the leased area to explore for, develop, and produce oil and gas resources, except helium gas, contained within the aliquot(s) and depths within which you own operating rights, according to the lease terms, applicable regulations, and BOEM's approval of the sublease or subsequent assignment of the operating rights.
(b) Unless otherwise prohibited, you have the right to authorize another party to conduct operations on the part of the lease to which your operating rights appertain.
(c) An owner of operating rights who is designating a new designated operator must file a designation of operator under § 550.143 of this chapter.
(d) An operating rights owner is only liable for obligations arising from that portion of the lease to which its operating rights appertain and that accrue during the period in which the operating rights owner owned the operating rights.
(e) You are jointly and severally liable with other operating rights owners and the record title owners for all non-monetary lease obligations pertaining to that portion of the lease subject to your operating rights, which accrued during the time you held your operating rights interest.
(f) An operating rights owner that acquires its operating rights interests through assignment from a prior operating rights owner is also responsible, with subrogation rights against prior operating rights owners, for remedying existing environmental or operational problems, to the extent that such problems arise from that portion of the lease to which its operating rights appertain, on any lease in which it owns operating rights.
(g) You are primarily liable for monetary obligations pertaining to that portion of the lease subject to your operating rights, and the record title owners are secondarily liable. If there is more than one operating rights owner in a lease, each operating rights owner is primarily liable for its pro-rata share of the monetary obligations
that pertain to the portion of the lease that is subject to its operating rights.

# Helium
§ 556.606
What must a lessee do if BOEM elects to extract helium from a lease?
(a) BOEM reserves the ownership of, and the right to extract, helium from all gas produced from your OCS lease. Under section 12(f) of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1341(f)), upon our request, you must deliver all or a specified portion of the gas containing helium to BOEM at a point on the leased area or at an onshore processing facility that BOEM designates.
(b) BOEM will determine reasonable compensation and pay you for any loss caused by the extraction of helium, except for the value of the helium itself. BOEM may erect, maintain, and operate on your lease any reduction work and other equipment necessary for helium extraction. Our extraction of helium will be conducted in a manner to not cause substantial delays in the delivery of gas to your purchaser.

# Subpart G—Transferring All or Part of the Record Title Interest in a Lease
§ 556.700
May I assign or sublease all or any part of the record title interest in my lease?
(a) With BOEM approval, you may assign your whole, or a partial record title interest in your entire lease, or in any aliquot(s) thereof.
(b) With BOEM approval, you may sever all, or a portion of, your operating rights.
(c) You must request approval of each assignment of a record title interest and each sublease of an operating rights interest. Each instrument that transfers a record title interest must describe, by aliquot parts, the interest you propose to transfer. Each instrument that severs an operating rights interest must describe, by officially designated aliquot parts and depth levels, the interest proposed to be transferred.
§ 556.701
How do I seek approval of an assignment of the record title interest in my lease, or a severance of operating rights from that record title interest?
(a) The Regional Director will provide the form to record an assignment of record title interest in a Federal OCS oil and gas or sulfur lease, or a severance of operating rights from that record title interest. You must submit to BOEM two originals of each instrument that transfers ownership of record title within 90 days after the last party executes the transfer instrument. You must pay the service fee listed in § 556.106 with your request and your submission must include evidence of payment via
pay.gov.
(b) Before BOEM approves an assignment or transfer, it must consult with, and consider the views of, the Attorney General. The Secretary may act on an assignment or transfer if the Attorney General has not responded to a request for consultation within 30 days of said request.
(c) A new record title owner or sublessee must file a designation of operator, in accordance with § 550.143 of this chapter, along with the request for the approval of the assignment.
§ 556.702
When will my assignment result in a segregated lease?
(a) When there is an assignment by all record title owners of 100 percent of the record title to one or more aliquots in a lease, the assigned and retained portions become segregated into separate and distinct leases. In such case, both the new lease and the remaining portion of the original lease are referred to as “segregated leases” and the assignee(s) becomes the record title owner(s) of the new lease, which is subject to all the terms and conditions of the original lease.
(b) If a record title holder transfers an undivided interest,
i.e.,
less than 100 percent of the record title interest in any given aliquot(s), that transfer will not segregate the portions of the aliquots, or the whole aliquots, in which part of the record title was transferred, into separate leases from the portion(s) in which no interest was transferred. Instead, that transfer will create a joint ownership between the
assignee(s) and assignor(s) in the portions of the lease in which part of the record title interest was transferred. Any transfer of an undivided interest is subject to approval by BOEM.
§ 556.703
What is the effect of the approval of the assignment of 100 percent of the record title in a particular aliquot(s) of my lease and of the resulting lease segregation?
(a) The financial assurance requirements of subpart I of this part apply separately to each segregated lease.
(b) The royalty, minimum royalty, and rental provisions of the original lease will apply separately to each segregated lease.
(c) BOEM will allocate among the segregated leases, on a basis that is equitable under the circumstances, any remaining unused royalty suspension volume or other form of royalty suspension or royalty relief that had been granted to the original lease, not to exceed in aggregate the total remaining amount.
(d) Each segregated lease will continue in full force and effect for the primary term of the original lease and so long thereafter as each segregated lease meets the requirements outlined in § 556.601. A segregated lease that does not meet the requirements of § 556.601 does not continue in force even if another segregated lease, which was part of the original lease, continues to meet those requirements.
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 31593, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 556.704
When may BOEM disapprove an assignment or sublease of an interest in my lease?
(a) BOEM may disapprove an assignment or sublease of all or part of your lease interest(s):
(1) When the transferor, transferee, or sublessee is not in compliance with all applicable regulations and orders, including financial assurance requirements;
(2) When a transferor attempts a transfer that is not acceptable as to form or content (
e.g.,
not on standard form, containing incorrect legal description, not executed by a person authorized to bind the corporation, transferee does not meet the requirements of § 556.401); or
(3) When the transfer does not conform to these regulations, or any other applicable laws or regulations (e.g., departmental debarment rules).
(b) A transfer will be void if it is made pursuant to any prelease agreement that would cause a bid to be disqualified, such as those described in § 556.511(c), (d), or (e).
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 31593, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 556.705
How do I transfer the interest of a deceased natural person who was a lessee?
(a) An heir or devisee must submit evidence by means of a certified copy of an appropriate court order or decree that the person is deceased; or, if no court action is necessary, a certified copy of the will and death certificate or notarized affidavits of two disinterested parties with knowledge of the facts.
(b) The heir or devisee, if the lawful successor in interest, must submit evidence that he/she is the person named in the will or evidence from an appropriate judgment of a court or decree that he/she is the lawful successor in interest, along with the required evidence of his/her qualifications to hold a lease under subpart D of this part.
(c) If the heir or devisee does not qualify to hold a lease under subpart D of this part, he/she will be recognized as the successor in interest, but he/she must divest him/herself of this interest in the lease, to a person qualified to be a hold a lease, within two years.
§ 556.706
What if I want to transfer record title interests in more than one lease at the same time, but to different parties?
You may not transfer interests in more than one lease to different parties using the same instrument. If you want to transfer the interest in more than one lease at the same time, you must submit duplicate, originally executed forms for each transfer. The forms used for each transfer must be accompanied by a cover letter executed by one of the parties to the transfer (or an authorized agent thereof) and evidence of payment via
pay.gov.
§ 556.707
What if I want to transfer different types of lease interests (not only record title interests) in the same lease to different parties?
You may not transfer different types of lease interests in a lease to different parties using the same instrument. You must submit duplicate, originally executed forms for each transfer, to a different party, of a different type of lease interest. The form used to transfer each type of lease interest must be accompanied by a cover letter executed by one of the parties to the transfer (or an authorized agent thereof) and evidence of payment via
pay.gov.
§ 556.708
What if I want to transfer my record title interests in more than one lease to the same party?
You may not transfer your record title interests in more than one lease to the same party using the same instrument. If you want to transfer record title interests in more than one lease at the same time, you must submit separate, originally executed forms for each transfer. The forms used for each transfer must be accompanied by a cover letter executed by one of the parties to the transfer (or an authorized agent thereof), and evidence of payment via
pay.gov.
A separate fee applies to each individual transfer of interest.
§ 556.709
What if I want to transfer my record title interest in one lease to multiple parties?
You may transfer your record title interest in one lease to multiple parties using the same instrument. That instrument must be submitted in duplicate originals, accompanied by a cover letter executed by one of the parties to the transfer (or an authorized agent thereof). In such a multiple transfer of interests using a single instrument, a separate fee applies to each individual transfer of interest, and evidence of payment via
pay.gov
must accompany the instrument.
§ 556.710
What is the effect of an assignment of a lease on an assignor's liability under the lease?
If you assign your record title interest, as an assignor you remain liable for all obligations, monetary and non-monetary, that accrued in connection with your lease during the period in which you owned the record title interest, up to the date BOEM approves your assignment. BOEM's approval of the assignment does not relieve you of these accrued obligations. Even after assignment, BOEM or BSEE may require you to bring the lease into compliance if your assignee or any subsequent assignee fails to perform any obligation under the lease, to the extent the obligation accrued before approval of your assignment. Until there is a BOEM-approved assignment of interest, you, as the assignor, remain liable for the performance of all lease obligations that accrued while you held record title interest, until all such obligations are fulfilled.
§ 556.711
What is the effect of a record title holder's sublease of operating rights on the record title holder's liability?
(a) A record title holder who subleases operating rights remains liable for all obligations of the lease, including those obligations accruing after BOEM's approval of the sublease, subject to § 556.604(e) and (f).
(b) Neither the sublease of operating rights, nor subsequent assignment of those rights by the original sublessee, nor by any subsequent assignee of the operating rights, alters in any manner the liability of the record title holder for nonmonetary obligations.
(c) Upon approval of the sublease of the operating rights, the sublessee and subsequent assignees of the operating rights become primarily liable for monetary obligations, but the record title holder remains secondarily liable for them, as prescribed in 30 U.S.C. 1712(a) and § 556.604(f)(2).
§ 556.712
What is the effective date of a transfer?
Any transfer is effective at 12:01 a.m. on the first day of the month following the date on which BOEM approves your request, unless you request an earlier effective date and BOEM approves that earlier date, but such earlier effective date, if prior to the date of BOEM's approval, does not relieve you of obligations accrued between that earlier effective date and the date of approval.
§ 556.713
What is the effect of an assignment of a lease on an assignee's liability under the lease?
As assignee, you and any subsequent assignees are liable for all obligations that accrue after the effective date of your assignment. As assignee, you must comply with all the terms and conditions of the lease and regulations issued under OCSLA, and in addition, you must remedy all existing environmental and operational problems on the lease, properly abandon all wells, and reclaim the site, as required under 30 CFR part 250.
§ 556.714
As a restricted joint bidder, may I transfer an interest to another restricted joint bidder?
(a) Where the proposed assignment or transfer is by a person who, at the time of acquisition of an interest in the lease, was on the List of Restricted Joint Bidders, and that assignment or transfer is of less than the entire interest held by the assignor or transferor and to a person or persons on the same List of Restricted Joint Bidders, the assignor or transferor must file, prior to the approval of the assignment, a copy of all agreements applicable to the acquisition of that lease or fractional interest, or a description of the timing and nature of the agreement(s) by which the assignor or transferor acquired the interest it now wishes to transfer.
(b) Such description of the timing and nature of the transfer agreement must be submitted together with a certified statement that attests to the truth and accuracy of any information reported concerning that agreement, subject to the penalties of 18 U.S.C. 1001.
(c) If you wish to transfer less than your entire interest to another restricted joint bidder, BOEM may request the opinion of the Attorney General before acting on your request.
(d) You may request that any submission to BOEM made pursuant to this part be treated confidentially. Please note such a request on your submission. BOEM will treat this request for confidentiality in accordance with the regulations at § 556.104 and the regulations at 43 CFR part 2.
§ 556.715
Are there any interests I may transfer or record without BOEM approval?
(a) You may create, transfer, or assign economic interests without BOEM approval. However, for record purposes, you must send BOEM a copy of each instrument creating or transferring such interests within 90 days after the last party executes the transfer instrument. For each lease affected, you must pay the service fee listed in § 556.106 with your documents submitted for record purposes and your submission must include evidence of payment via
pay.gov.
(b) For recordkeeping purposes, you may also submit other legal documents to BOEM for transactions that do not require BOEM approval. If you submit such documents for record purposes not required by this part, you must pay the service fee listed in § 556.106 with your document submissions for each lease affected. Your submission must include evidence of payment via
pay.gov.
§ 556.716
What must I do with respect to the designation of operator on a lease when a transfer of record title is submitted?
(a) If a transfer of ownership of the record title interest only changes the percentage ownership of the record title, no new parties or new aliquots are involved in the transaction, and no change of designated operator is made, you will not need to submit a new designation of operator form.
(b) In all cases other than that in paragraph (a) of this section, you must submit new designation of operator forms in accordance with § 550.143 of this chapter. In the event that you are transferring multiple record title interests, you must comply with this requirement for each interest that does not fall within paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart H—Transferring All or Part of the Operating Rights in a Lease
§ 556.800
As an operating rights owner, may I assign all or part of my operating rights interest?
An operating rights owner may assign all or part of its operating rights interests, subject to BOEM approval.
Each instrument that transfers an interest must describe, by officially designated aliquot parts and depth levels, the interest proposed to be transferred.
§ 556.801
How do I seek approval of an assignment of my operating rights?
(a) The Regional Director will provide the form to document the assignment of an operating rights interest. You must request approval of each assignment of operating rights and submit to BOEM two originals of each instrument that transfers ownership of operating rights within 90 days after the last party executes the transfer instrument. You must pay the service fee listed in § 556.106 with your request and your submission must include evidence of payment via
pay.gov.
(b) A new operating rights owner must file a designation of operator, in accordance with § 550.143, along with the request for the approval of the assignment.
(c) If an operating rights owner assigns an undivided ownership interest in its operating rights, that assignment creates a joint ownership in the operating rights.
(d) Before BOEM approves a sublease or re-assignment of operating rights, BOEM may consult with and consider the views of the Attorney General.
§ 556.802
When may BOEM disapprove the transfer of all or part of my operating rights interest?
BOEM may disapprove a transfer of all or part of your operating rights interest:
(a) When the transferor or transferee is not in compliance with all applicable regulations and orders, including financial assurance requirements;
(b) When a transferor attempts a transfer that is not acceptable as to form or content (
e.g.,
not on standard form, containing incorrect legal description, not executed in accordance with corporate governance, transferee does not meet the requirements of § 556.401); or
When may BOEM disapprove the transfer of all or part of my operating rights interest?
BOEM may disapprove a transfer of all or part of your operating rights interest:
(a) When the transferor or transferee is not in compliance with all applicable regulations and orders, including financial assurance requirements;
(b) When a transferor attempts a transfer that is not acceptable as to form or content (e.g., not on standard form, containing incorrect legal description, not executed in accordance with corporate governance, transferee does not meet the requirements of § 556.401); or
(c) When the transfer does not conform to these regulations, or any other applicable laws or regulations (e.g., departmental debarment rules).
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 31593, Apr. 24, 2024
§ 556.803
What if I want to assign operating rights interests in more than one lease at the same time, but to different parties?
You may not assign operating rights interests in more than one lease to different parties using the same instrument. If you want to transfer operating rights interests in more than one lease at the same time, you must submit two originally executed forms for each transfer. Each request for a transfer of operating rights interest must be accompanied by a cover letter executed by one of the parties to the transfer (or an authorized agent thereof) and evidence of payment via
pay.gov.
§ 556.804
What if I want to assign my operating rights interest in a lease to multiple parties?
You may assign your operating rights interest in one lease to multiple parties using the same instrument. That instrument must be submitted in duplicate originals, accompanied by a cover letter executed by one of the parties to the transfer (or an authorized agent thereof). In such a multiple transfer of interests using a single instrument, a separate fee applies to each individual transfer of interest and evidence of payment via
pay.gov
must accompany the instrument.
§ 556.805
What is the effect of an operating rights owner's assignment of operating rights on the assignor's liability?
An operating rights owner (who does not hold record title) who assigns the operating rights remains liable for all obligations of the lease that accrued during the period in which the assignor owned the operating rights, up to the effective date of the assignment, including decommissioning obligations that accrued during that period. BOEM's approval of the assignment does not alter that liability. Even after assignment, BOEM or BSEE may require the assignor to bring the lease into compliance if the assignee or any subsequent assignee fails to perform any obligation under the lease, to the extent the obligation accrued before approval of the assignment.
§ 556.806
What is the effective date of an assignment of operating rights?
An assignment is effective at 12:01 a.m. on the first day of the month following the date on which BOEM approves your request, unless you request an earlier effective date and BOEM approves that earlier date. Such an earlier effective date, if prior to the date of BOEM's approval, does not relieve you of obligations accrued between that earlier effective date and the date of approval.
§ 556.807
What is the effect of an assignment of operating rights on an assignee's liability?
As assignee, you and any subsequent assignees are liable for all obligations that accrue after the effective date of your assignment. As assignee, you must comply with all the terms and conditions of the lease and regulations issued under OCSLA. In addition, you must remedy all existing environmental and operational problems on the lease, properly abandon all wells, and reclaim the site, as required under 30 CFR part 250.
§ 556.808
As an operating rights owner, are there any interests I may assign without BOEM approval?
(a) You may create, transfer, or assign economic interests without BOEM approval. However, for record purposes, you must send BOEM a copy of each instrument creating or transferring such interests within 90 days after the last party executes the transfer instrument. For each lease affected, you must pay the service fee listed in § 556.106 with your documents submitted for record purposes, and your submission must include evidence of payment via
pay.gov.
(b) For record keeping purposes, you may also submit other legal documents to BOEM for transactions that do not require BOEM approval. If you submit such documents for record purposes that are not required by these regulations, for each lease affected, you must pay the service fee listed in § 556.106 with your document submissions, and your submission must include evidence of payment via
pay.gov.
§ 556.809
[Reserved]
§ 556.810
What must I do with respect to the designation of operator on a lease when a transfer of operating rights ownership is submitted?
(a) If a transfer of ownership of operating rights only changes the percentage ownership; no new parties, new aliquots, or new depths are involved in the transaction; and no change of designated operator is made, you will not need to submit a new designation of operator form.
(b) In all cases other than that in paragraph (a) of this section, you must submit new designation of operator forms, in accordance with § 550.143 of this chapter. In the event that you are transferring multiple operating rights interests, you must comply with this requirement for each interest that does not fall within paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart I—Financial Assurance
§ 556.900
Financial assurance requirements for an oil and gas or sulfur lease.
This section establishes financial assurance requirements for the lessee of an OCS oil and gas or sulfur lease.
(a) Before BOEM will issue a new lease to you as the lessee, you or another lessee for the lease must comply with one of the options in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. Before
BOEM will approve the assignment of a record title interest in an existing lease to you as the lessee, you or another lessee for the lease must provide any supplemental financial assurance required by the Regional Director and also comply with one of the options in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3).
(1) Maintain with the Regional Director a $50,000 lease bond that guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of the lease; or
(2) Maintain a $300,000 area-wide bond that guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of all your oil and gas and sulfur leases in the area where the lease is located; or
(3) Maintain a lease or area-wide bond in the amount required in § 556.901(a) or (b).
(b) For the purpose of this section, there are three areas. The three areas are:
(1) The Gulf of America and the area offshore the Atlantic Coast;
(2) The area offshore the Pacific Coast States of California, Oregon, Washington, and Hawaii; and
(3) The area offshore the Coast of Alaska.
(c) The requirement to maintain a lease bond (or substitute security instrument) under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and § 556.901(a) and (b) may be satisfied if your operator or an operating rights owner provides a lease bond in the required amount that guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of the lease. Your operator or an operating rights owner may use an areawide bond under this paragraph to satisfy your bond obligation.
(d) If a surety makes payment to the United States under a bond or alternative form of security maintained under this section, the surety's remaining liability under the bond or alternative form of security is reduced by the amount of that payment. See paragraph (e) of this section for the requirement to replace the reduced bond coverage.
(e) If the value of your surety bond or alternative security is reduced because of a default or for any other reason, you must provide additional bond coverage sufficient to meet the security required under this subpart within 6 months, or such shorter period of time as the Regional Director may direct.
(f) You may pledge United States Department of the Treasury (Treasury) securities instead of a bond. The Treasury securities you pledge must be negotiable for an amount of cash equal to the value of the bond they replace.
(1) If you pledge Treasury securities under this paragraph (f), you must monitor their value. If their market value falls below the level of bond coverage required under this subpart, you must pledge additional Treasury securities to raise the value of the securities pledged to the required amount.
(2) If you pledge Treasury securities, you must include authority for the Regional Director to sell them and use the proceeds in the event that the Regional Director determines that you fail to satisfy any lease obligation.
(g) You may provide alternative types of financial assurance instead of providing a surety bond if the Regional Director determines that the alternative financial assurance protects the interests of the United States to the same extent as a surety bond.
(1) If you pledge an alternative type of security under this paragraph, you must monitor the security's value. If its market value falls below the level of bond coverage required under this subpart, you must pledge additional securities to raise the value of the securities pledged to the required amount.
(2) If you pledge an alternative type of security, you must include authority for the Regional Director to sell the security and use the proceeds when the Regional Director determines that you failed to satisfy any lease obligation.
(h) If you fail to replace deficient financial assurance or to provide supplemental financial assurance upon demand, the Regional Director may:
(1) Assess penalties under part 550, subpart N of this subchapter;
(2) Request BSEE to suspend production and other operations on your lease in accordance with § 250.173 of this title; and/or
(3) Initiate action to cancel your lease.
(i) In the event you amend your area-wide surety bond covering lease obligations, or obtain a new area-wide lease
surety bond, to cover the financial assurance requirements for any RUE(s), your area-wide lease surety bond may be called in whole or in part to cover any or all the obligations on which you default that are associated with your RUE(s) located in the area covered by such area-wide lease surety bond.
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 31593, Apr. 24, 2024; 90 FR 24071, June 6, 2025]
§ 556.901
Base and supplemental financial assurance.
(a) You must provide the following financial assurance before commencing any lease exploration activities.
(1)(i) You must furnish the Regional Director $200,000 in lease exploration financial assurance that guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of the lease by the earliest of:
(ii) The Regional Director may authorize you to submit the $200,000 lease exploration bond after you submit an EP, but before approval of drilling activities under the EP.
(iii) You may satisfy the bond requirement of this paragraph (a) by providing a new bond or by increasing the amount of your existing bond.
(2) A $200,000 lease exploration bond pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section need not be submitted and maintained if the lessee either:
(i) Furnishes and maintains an areawide bond in the sum of $1 million issued by a qualified surety and conditioned on compliance with all the terms and conditions of oil and gas and sulfur leases held by the lessee on the OCS for the area in which the lease is situated; or
(ii) Furnishes and maintains a bond pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(b) This paragraph (b) explains what financial assurance you must provide before lease development and production activities commence.
(1)(i) You must furnish the Regional Director $500,000 in lease development financial assurance that guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of the lease by the earliest of:
(A) The date you submit a proposed development and production plan (DPP) or development operations coordination document (DOCD) for approval; or
(B) The date you submit a request for approval of the assignment of a lease on which a DPP or DOCD has been approved.
(ii) The Regional Director may authorize you to submit the $500,000 lease development bond after you submit a DPP or DOCD, but before he/she approves the installation of a platform or the commencement of drilling activities under the DPP or DOCD.
(iii) You may satisfy the bond requirement of this paragraph by providing a new bond or by increasing the amount of your existing bond.
(2) You need not submit and maintain a $500,000 lease development bond pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section if you furnish and maintain an areawide bond in the sum of $3 million issued by a qualified surety and conditioned on compliance with all the terms and conditions of oil and gas and sulfur leases you hold on the OCS for the area in which the lease is located.
(c) If you can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Regional Director that you can satisfy your decommissioning and other lease obligations for less than the amount of financial assurance required under paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section, the Regional Director may accept financial assurance in an amount less than the prescribed amount but not less than the amount of the cost for decommissioning.
(d) The Regional Director may determine that supplemental financial assurance (
i.e.,
financial assurance above the amounts prescribed in §§ 550.166(a) and 550.1011(a) of this subchapter, § 556.900(a), or paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section) is required to ensure compliance with your lease obligations, including decommissioning obligations; the regulations in this chapter; and the regulations in chapters II and XII of this title. The Regional Director may require you to provide supplemental financial assurance if you do not meet at least one of the following criteria:
(1) You have an investment grade credit rating. If any nationally recognized statistical rating organization, as that term is defined in section 3(a)(62) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, provides a credit rating for you that
differs from that of any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization, BOEM will apply the highest rating for purposes of determining your financial assurance requirements.
(2) You have a proxy credit rating determined by the Regional Director that they determine reflects creditworthiness equivalent to an investment grade credit rating, which must be based on audited financial information for the most recent fiscal year (which must include an income statement, balance sheet, statement of cash flows, and the auditor's certificate).
(i) The audited financial information for your most recent fiscal year must cover a continuous twelve-month period within the twenty-four-month period prior to your receipt of the Regional Director's determination that you must provide supplemental financial assurance.
(ii) In determining your proxy credit rating, the Regional Director may include the total value of the offshore decommissioning liabilities associated with any lease(s) or grants in which you have an ownership interest. Upon the request of the Regional Director, you must provide the information that the Regional Director determines is necessary to properly evaluate the total value of your offshore decommissioning liabilities, including joint ownership interests and liabilities associated with your OCS leases and grants.
(3) Your co-lessee or co-grant holder has an issuer credit rating or proxy credit rating that meets the criterion set forth in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable. However, the presence of such co-lessee or co-grant holder will allow the Regional Director to not require financial assurance from you only to the extent that you and that co-lessee or co-grant holder share accrued liabilities, and the Regional Director may require you to provide supplemental financial assurance for decommissioning obligations for which such co-lessee or co-grant holder is not liable.
(4) There are proved oil and gas reserves on the lease, unit, or field, as defined by the SEC Regulation S-X at 17 CFR 210.4-10 and SEC Regulation S-K at 17 CFR 229.1200, the discounted value of which exceeds three times the estimated undiscounted cost of the decommissioning associated with the production of those reserves, and that value must be based on proved reserve reports submitted to the Regional Director and reported on a per-lease, unit, or field basis. BOEM will determine the decommissioning costs associated with the production of your reserves, and will use the following undiscounted decommissioning cost estimates:
(i) Where BSEE-generated probabilistic estimates are available, BOEM will use the estimate at the level at which there is a 70 percent probability that the actual cost of decommissioning will be less than the estimate (P70).
(ii) If there is no BSEE probabilistic estimate available, BOEM will use the BSEE-generated deterministic estimate.
(e) You may satisfy the Regional Director's demand for supplemental financial assurance by increasing the amount of your existing financial assurance or providing additional surety bonds or other types of acceptable financial assurance.
(f) The Regional Director will use the BSEE P70 decommissioning probabilistic estimate to determine the amount of supplemental financial assurance required to guarantee compliance when there is no lessee or co-lessee that meets the criterion in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section. In making this determination, the Regional Director will also consider your potential underpayment of royalty and cumulative decommissioning obligations. Note that BOEM will use these P-values only in the context of determining how much financial assurance is required, and not in the context of bond forfeiture. Regardless of whether you are required to provide supplemental financial assurance at the P70 level, you remain liable for the full costs of decommissioning, and your surety remains liable for the full amount of decommissioning up to the limit of assurance provided.
(g) If your cumulative potential obligations and liabilities either increase or decrease, the Regional Director may adjust the amount of supplemental financial assurance required.
(1) If the Regional Director proposes an adjustment, the Regional Director will:
(i) Notify you and your financial assurance provider of any proposed adjustment to the amount of financial assurance required; and
(ii) Give you an opportunity to submit written or oral comment on the adjustment.
(2) If you request a reduction of the amount of supplemental financial assurance required, or oppose the amount of a proposed adjustment, you must submit evidence to the Regional Director demonstrating that the projected amount of royalties due to the United States Government and the estimated costs of decommissioning are less than the required financial assurance amount. Upon review of your submission, the Regional Director may reduce the amount of financial assurance required.
(h) During the first 3 years from June 24, 2024, you may, upon receipt of a demand letter for supplemental financial assurance under this section, request that the Regional Director allow you to provide, in three equal installments payable according to the schedule provided under this paragraph (h), the full amount of supplemental financial assurance required.
(1) If the Regional Director allows you to provide the amount required on such a phased basis, you must comply with the following:
(i) You must provide the initial one-third of the total supplemental financial assurance required within the timeframe specified in the demand letter or, if no timeframe is specified, within 60 calendar days of the date of receipt of the demand letter.
(ii) You must provide the second one-third of the required supplemental financial assurance to BOEM within 24 months of the date of receipt of the demand letter.
(iii) You must provide the final one-third of the required supplemental financial assurance to BOEM within 36 months of the date of receipt of the demand letter.
(2) If the Regional Director allows you to meet your supplemental financial assurance requirement in a phased manner, as set forth in this section, and you fail to timely provide the required supplemental financial assurance to BOEM, the Regional Director will notify you of such failure. You will no longer be eligible to meet your supplemental financial assurance requirement in the manner prescribed in this paragraph (h), and the remaining amount due will become due 10 calendar days after such notification is received.
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 31594, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 556.902
General requirements for bonds or other financial assurance.
(a) Any surety bond or other financial assurance that you, as record title owner, operating rights owner, grant holder, or operator, provide under this part, or under part 550 of this subchapter, must:
(1) Be payable upon demand to the Regional Director;
(2) Guarantee compliance with all your obligations under the lease or grant, the regulations in chapters II and XII of this title, and all BOEM and BSEE orders; and
(3) Except as stated in § 556.905(b), guarantee compliance with the obligations of all record title owners, operating rights owners, and operators on the lease, and all grant-holders on a grant.
(b) All bonds and pledges you furnish under this part must be on a form or in a form approved by the Director. Surety bonds must be issued by a surety that the Treasury certifies as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds and that is listed in the current Treasury Circular No. 570. You may obtain a copy of the current Treasury Circular No. 570 from the Surety Bond Branch, Financial Management Service, Department of the Treasury, East-West Highway, Hyattsville, MD 20782.
(c) You and a qualified surety must execute your bond. When either party is a corporation, an authorized official for the party must sign the bond and attest to it by an imprint of the corporate seal.
(d) Bonds must be non-cancellable, except as provided in § 556.906 of this part. Bonds must continue in full force and effect even though an event occurs
that could diminish, terminate, or cancel a surety obligation under State surety law.
(e) Lease bonds must be:
(1) A surety bond;
(2) A pledge of Treasury securities, as provided in § 556.900(f);
(3) Another form of security approved by the Regional Director; or
(4) A combination of these security methods.
(f) You may submit a bond to the Regional Director executed on a form approved under paragraph (b) of this section that you have reproduced or generated by use of a computer. If you do, and if the document omits terms or conditions contained on the form approved by the Director, the bond you submit will be deemed to contain the omitted terms and conditions.
(g) If you believe that BOEM's supplemental financial assurance demand is unjustified, you may request an informal resolution of your dispute in accordance with the requirements of § 590.6 of this chapter. Your request for an informal resolution will not affect your right to request to meet your supplemental financial assurance requirement in a phased manner under § 556.901(h).
(h) You may file an appeal of a supplemental financial assurance demand with the Interior Board of Land Appeals (IBLA) pursuant to the regulations in part 590 of this chapter. However, if you request that the IBLA stay the demand pending a final ruling on your appeal, you must post an appeal surety bond equal to the amount of the demand that you seek to stay before any such stay is effective.
[81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 31595, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 556.903
Lapse of financial assurance.
(a) If your surety, guarantor, or the financial institution holding or providing your financial assurance becomes bankrupt or insolvent, or has its charter or license suspended or revoked, any financial assurance coverage from such surety, guarantor, or financial institution must be replaced. You must notify the Regional Director within 72 hours of learning of such event, and, within 30 calendar days of learning of such event, you must provide other financial assurance from a different financial assurance provider in the amount required under §§ 556.900 and 556.901, or § 550.166 of this subchapter, or § 550.1011 of this subchapter.
(b) You must notify the Regional Director within 72 hours of learning of any action filed alleging that you are insolvent or bankrupt or that your surety, guarantor, or financial institution is insolvent or bankrupt or has had its charter or license suspended or revoked. All surety bonds or other financial assurance instruments must require the surety, guarantor, or financial institution to timely provide this required notification both to you and directly to BOEM.
[89 FR 31595, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 556.904
Decommissioning accounts.
(a) The Regional Director may authorize you to establish a decommissioning account(s) in a federally insured financial institution to satisfy a supplemental financial assurance demand made pursuant to § 556.901(d), § 550.166(b) of this subchapter, or § 550.1011(d) of this subchapter. The decommissioning account must be set up in such a manner that funds may not be withdrawn without the written approval of the Regional Director.
(1) Funds in the account must be used only to meet your decommissioning obligations and must be payable upon demand to BOEM.
(2) You must fully fund the account to cover all decommissioning costs as estimated by BSEE, to the amount, and pursuant to the schedule, that the Regional Director prescribes.
(3) If you fail to make the initial payment or any scheduled payment into the decommissioning account and you fail to correct a missed payment within 30 days, you must immediately submit, and subsequently maintain, a surety bond or other financial assurance in an amount equal to the remaining unfulfilled portion of the supplemental financial assurance demand.
(b) Any interest paid on funds in a decommissioning account will become part of the principal funds in the account unless the Regional Director authorizes in writing the payment of the interest to the party who deposits the funds.
(c) The Regional Director may authorize or require you to create an overriding royalty, production payment obligation, or other revenue stream for the benefit of an account established as financial assurance for the decommissioning of your lease(s) or RUE or pipeline ROW grant(s). The obligation may be associated with oil and gas or sulfur production from a lease other than a lease or grant secured through the decommissioning account.
(d) BOEM may provide funds from the decommissioning account to the party that performs the decommissioning in response to a BOEM or BSEE order to perform such decommissioning or to cover the costs thereof. BOEM will distribute the funds from the decommissioning account upon presentation of paid invoices for reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the party performing the decommissioning.
[89 FR 31595, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 556.905
Third-party guarantees.
(a) The Regional Director may accept a third-party guarantee to satisfy a supplemental financial assurance demand made pursuant to § 556.901(d), § 550.166(b) of this subchapter, or § 550.1011(d) of this subchapter, if:
(1) The guarantor meets the credit rating or proxy credit rating criterion set forth in § 556.901(d)(1) or (2), as applicable; and
(2) The guarantor or guaranteed party submits a third-party guarantee agreement containing each of the provisions in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) Notwithstanding § 556.902(a)(3), a third-party guarantor may, as agreed to by BOEM at the time the third-party guarantee is provided, limit its cumulative obligations to a fixed dollar amount or limit its obligations so as to cover the performance of one or more specific lease obligations (with no fixed dollar amount).
(c) If, during the life of your third-party guarantee, your guarantor no longer meets the criterion referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must, within 72 hours of so learning:
(1) Notify the Regional Director; and
(2) Submit, and subsequently maintain, a surety bond or other financial assurance covering those obligations previously secured by the third-party guarantee.
(d) Your third-party guarantee must contain each of the following provisions:
(1) If you fail to comply with the terms of any lease or grant covered by the guarantee, or any applicable regulation, your guarantor must either:
(i) Take corrective action to bring the lease or grant into compliance with its terms or any applicable regulation, to the extent covered by the guarantee; or
(ii) Be liable under the third-party guarantee agreement to provide, within 7 calendar days, sufficient funds for the Regional Director to complete such corrective action to the extent covered by the guarantee. Such payment does not result in the cancellation of the guarantee, but instead reduces the remaining value of the guarantee in an amount equal to the payment.
(2) If your guarantor wishes to terminate the period of liability under its guarantee, it must:
(i) Notify you and the Regional Director at least 90 calendar days before the proposed termination date;
(ii) Obtain the Regional Director's approval for the termination of the period of liability for all or a specified portion of the guarantee; and
(iii) Remain liable for all liabilities that accrued or began accruing prior to the termination and responsible for all work and workmanship performed during the period of liability.
(3) Before the termination of the period of liability of the third-party guarantee, you must provide acceptable replacement financial assurance.
(e) If you or your guarantor request BOEM to cancel your third-party guarantee, BOEM will cancel the guarantee under the same terms and conditions provided for cancellation of supplemental financial assurance and return of pledged financial assurance in § 556.906(b) and/or (d)(3).
(f) The guarantor or guaranteed party must submit a third-party guarantee agreement that meets the following criteria:
(1) The third-party guarantee agreement must be executed by your guarantor and all persons and parties bound by the agreement.
(2) The third-party guarantee agreement must bind, jointly and severally, each person and party executing the agreement.
(3) When your guarantor is a corporate entity, two corporate officers who are authorized to bind the corporation must sign the third-party guarantee agreement.
(g) Your corporate guarantor and any other corporate entities bound by the third-party guarantee agreement must provide the Regional Director copies of:
(1) The authorization of the signatory corporate officials to bind their respective corporations;
(2) An affidavit certifying that the agreement is valid under all applicable laws; and
(3) Each corporation's corporate authorization to enter into the third-party guarantee agreement.
(h) If your third-party guarantor or another party bound by the third-party guarantee agreement is a partnership, joint venture, or syndicate, the third-party guarantee agreement must:
(1) Bind each partner or party who has a beneficial interest in your guarantor; and
(2) Provide that each member of the partnership, joint venture, or syndicate is jointly and severally liable for the obligations secured by the guarantee.
(i) The third-party guarantee agreement must provide that, in the event forfeiture is called for under § 556.907, your guarantor will either:
(1) Take corrective action to bring your lease or grant into compliance with its terms, and the regulations, to the extent covered by the guarantee; or
(2) Provide sufficient funds within 7 calendar days to permit the Regional Director to complete such corrective action to the extent covered by the guarantee.
(j) The third-party guarantee agreement must contain a confession of judgment. It must provide that, if the Regional Director determines that you are in default of the lease or grant covered by the guarantee or not in compliance with any regulation applicable to such lease or grant, the guarantor:
(1) Will not challenge the determination; and
(2) Will remedy the default to the extent covered by the guarantee.
(k) Each third-party guarantee agreement is deemed to contain all terms and conditions contained in paragraphs (d), (i), and (j) of this section, even if the guarantor has omitted these terms from the third-party guarantee agreement.
[89 FR 31596, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 556.906
Termination of the period of liability and cancellation of financial assurance.
This section defines the terms and conditions under which BOEM will terminate the period of liability of, or cancel, financial assurance. Terminating the period of liability ends the period during which obligations continue to accrue, but does not relieve the financial assurance provider of the responsibility for obligations that accrued during the period of liability. Canceling a financial assurance instrument relieves the financial assurance provider of all liability. The liabilities that accrue during a period of liability include obligations that started to accrue prior to the beginning of the period of liability and had not been met, and obligations that begin accruing during the period of liability.
(a) When you or your financial assurance provider request termination:
(1) The Regional Director will terminate the period of liability under your financial assurance within 90 calendar days after BOEM receives the request; and
(2) If you intend to continue operations, or have not met all decommissioning obligations, within 90 calendar days after BOEM receives your termination request, you must provide replacement financial assurance of an equivalent amount.
(b) If you provide replacement financial assurance, the Regional Director will cancel your previous financial assurance and the previous financial assurance provider will not retain any liability, provided that:
(1) The amount of the new financial assurance is equal to or greater than that of the financial assurance that was cancelled, or you provide an alternative form of financial assurance, and the Regional Director determines that
the alternative form of financial assurance provides a level of security equal to or greater than that provided by the financial assurance that is proposed to be cancelled;
(2) For financial assurance submitted under § 556.900(a), § 556.901(a) or (b), § 550.166(a) of this subchapter, or § 550.1011(a) of this subchapter, the new financial assurance provider agrees to assume all outstanding obligations that accrued during the period of liability that was terminated; and
(3) For supplemental financial assurance submitted under § 556.901(d), § 550.166(b) of this subchapter, or § 550.1011(d) of this subchapter, the new financial assurance provider agrees to assume that portion of the outstanding obligations that accrued during the period of liability that was terminated and that the Regional Director determines may exceed the coverage of the financial assurance submitted under § 556.900(a), § 556.901(a) or (b), § 550.166(a) of this subchapter, or § 550.1011(a) of this subchapter. The Regional Director will notify the provider of the new financial assurance of the amount required.
(c) This paragraph (c) applies if the period of liability is terminated, but the financial assurance is not replaced with financial assurance of an equivalent amount pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. The financial assurance provider will continue to be responsible for obligations that accrued prior to the termination of the period of liability:
(1) Until the obligations are satisfied; and
(2) For additional periods of time in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) BOEM will cancel the financial assurance for your lease or grant, and the Regional Director will return any pledged financial assurance, as shown in the following table:
For the following:
Your financial assurance will be reduced or cancelled, or your pledged financial assurance will be returned:
(1) Financial assurance submitted under § 556.900(a), § 556.901(a) or (b), § 550.166(a) of this subchapter, or § 550.1011(a) of this subchapter
(i) 7 years after the lease or grant expires or is terminated, 6 years after the Regional Director determines that you have completed all covered obligations, or at the conclusion of any appeals or litigation related to your covered obligations, whichever is the latest. The Regional Director will reduce the amount of your financial assurance or return a portion of your pledged financial assurance if the Regional Director determines that less than the full amount of the financial assurance or pledged financial assurance is required to cover any potential obligations.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) Financial assurance submitted under § 556.901(d), § 550.166(b) of this subchapter, or § 550.1011(d) of this subchapter
(i) When the lease or grant expires or is terminated and the Regional Director determines you have met your covered obligations, unless the Regional Director:
(A) Determines that the future potential liability resulting from any undetected problem is greater than the amount of the financial assurance submitted under § 556.900(a), § 556.901(a) or (b), § 550.166(a) of this subchapter, or § 550.1011(a) of this subchapter; and
(B) Notifies the provider of financial assurance submitted under § 556.901(d), § 550.166(b) of this subchapter, or 550.1011(d) of this subchapter that the Regional Director will wait 7 years before cancelling all or a part of such financial assurance (or longer period as necessary to complete any appeals or judicial litigation related to your secured obligations).
(ii) At any time when:
(A) BOEM has determined, using the criteria set forth in § 556.901(d)(1), as applicable, that you no longer need to provide the supplemental financial assurance for your lease, RUE grant, or pipeline ROW grant.
(B) The operations for which the supplemental financial assurance was provided ceased prior to accrual of any decommissioning obligation; or,
(C) Cancellation of the financial assurance is appropriate because, under the regulations, BOEM determines such financial assurance never should have been required.
(3) Third-party Guarantee under § 556.901(d), § 550.166(b) of this subchapter, or § 550.1011(d) of this subchapter
(i) When the Regional Director determines you have met your obligations secured by the guarantee (or longer period as necessary to complete any appeals or judicial litigation related to your obligations secured by the guarantee).
(ii) [Reserved]
(e) For all financial assurance, the Regional Director may reinstate your financial assurance as if no cancellation had occurred if:
(1) A person makes a payment under the lease, RUE grant, or pipeline ROW grant, and the payment is rescinded or must be returned by the recipient because the person making the payment is insolvent, bankrupt, subject to reorganization, or placed in receivership; or
(2) The responsible party represents to BOEM that it has discharged its obligations under the lease, RUE grant, or pipeline ROW grant and the representation was materially false when the financial assurance was cancelled.
[89 FR 39516, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 556.907
Forfeiture of bonds or other financial assurance.
This section explains how a bond or other financial assurance may be forfeited.
(a) The Regional Director will call for forfeiture of all or part of the bond, or other form of financial assurance, including a guarantee you provide under this part, if:
(1) You, or any party with the obligation to comply, refuse to comply with any term or condition of your lease, RUE grant, pipeline ROW grant, or any BOEM or BSEE order, or any applicable regulation, or the Regional Director determines that you are unable to so comply; or
(2) You default on one of the conditions under which the Regional Director accepts your bond, third-party guarantee, and/or other form of financial assurance.
(b) The Regional Director may pursue forfeiture of your surety bond or other financial assurance without first making demands for performance against any other record title owner, operating rights owner, grant holder, or other person authorized to perform lease or grant obligations.
(c) The Regional Director will:
(1) Notify you, your surety, guarantor, or the financial institution holding or providing your financial assurance, of a determination to call for forfeiture of your financial assurance, whether it takes the form of a surety bond, guarantee, funds, or other type of financial assurance.
(i) This notice will be in writing and will provide the reason for the forfeiture and the amount to be forfeited.
(ii) The Regional Director will determine the amount to be forfeited based upon an estimate of the total cost of corrective action to bring your lease or grant into compliance, subject, in the case of a guarantee, to any limitation in the guarantee authorized by § 556.905(b).
(2) Advise you and your financial assurance provider that forfeiture may be avoided if, within five business days:
(i) You agree to and demonstrate that you will bring your lease or grant into compliance within the timeframe the Regional Director prescribes; or
(ii) The provider of your financial assurance agrees to and demonstrates that it will complete the corrective action to bring your lease or grant into compliance within the timeframe the Regional Director prescribes, even if the cost of compliance exceeds the amount of that financial assurance.
(d) If the Regional Director finds you are in default under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, the Regional Director may cause the forfeiture of any financial assurance provided to ensure your compliance with BOEM and BSEE orders, the terms and conditions of your lease or grant, and the regulations in this chapter and chapters II and XII of this title.
(e) If the Regional Director determines that your financial assurance is forfeited, the Regional Director will:
(1) Collect the forfeited amount; and
(2) Use the funds collected to bring your lease or grant into compliance and to correct any default.
(f) If the amount the Regional Director collects under your financial assurance is insufficient to pay the full cost of corrective action, the Regional Director may:
(1) Take or direct action to obtain full compliance with your lease or grant and the regulations in this chapter; and
(2) Recover from you, any other record title owner, operating rights owner, co-grant holder or, to the extent covered by the guarantee, any third-party guarantor responsible under this subpart, all costs in excess of the amount the Regional Director
collects under your forfeited financial assurance.
(g) If the amount that the Regional Director collects under your forfeited financial assurance exceeds the costs of taking the corrective action required to bring your lease or grant into compliance with its terms and the regulations in this chapter, BOEM and BSEE orders, and chapters II and XII of this title, the Regional Director will return the excess funds to the party from whom they were collected.
(h) The Regional Director may pay the funds from the forfeited financial assurance to a co- or predecessor lessee or third party who is taking the corrective action required to obtain partial or full compliance with the regulations, BOEM or BSEE orders, and/or the terms of your lease or grant.
[89 FR 31597, Apr. 24, 2024]

# Subpart J—Bonus or Royalty Credits for Exchange of Certain Leases
§ 556.1000
Leases formerly eligible for a bonus or royalty credit.
Bonus or royalty credits were available to lessees with leases:
(a) In effect on December 20, 2006, and located in:
(1) The Eastern Planning Area and within 125 miles of the coastline of the State of Florida; or,
(2) The Central Planning Area and within the Desoto Canyon OPD, the Destin Dome OPD, or the Pensacola OPD and within 100 miles of the coastline of the State of Florida.
(b) The deadline for applying for such a bonus or royalty credit was October 14, 2010; therefore, lessees may no longer apply for such credits.

# Subpart K—Ending a Lease
§ 556.1100
How does a lease expire?
(a) Your oil and gas lease will automatically expire at the end of its primary term unless you have taken action, as set forth in § 556.601, to maintain the lease beyond the primary term.
(b) Your sulfur lease will automatically expire at the end of its primary term unless you have taken action, as set forth in § 556.603, to maintain the lease beyond the primary term.
§ 556.1101
May I relinquish my lease or an aliquot part thereof?
(a) A record title owner may relinquish a lease or an aliquot part of a lease if all record title owners of a lease or any aliquot part(s) of the lease file three original copies of a request to relinquish with BOEM on Form BOEM-0152, entitled, “Relinquishment of Federal Oil and Gas Lease.” No filing fee is required.
(b) A relinquishment will be subject to the continued obligation of the record title owner and the surety to make all payments due, including any accrued rentals, royalties and deferred bonuses, and to abandon all wells and condition or remove all platforms and other facilities on the land to be relinquished to the satisfaction of the Director.
(c) The effective date of the relinquishment is the date on which the relinquishment is filed with the proper BOEM regional office.
§ 556.1102
Under what circumstances will BOEM cancel my lease?
(a) BOEM may cancel your non-producing lease if you fail to comply with any provision of OCSLA, the lease, or applicable regulations if the failure continues for 30 days after mailing of notice to your post office address of record by registered mail and you have not requested and been granted any additional time within which to correct the failure. Such cancellation is subject to judicial review under section 23 of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1349).
(b) Your producing lease may be cancelled if you fail to comply with any provision of OCSLA, the lease, or applicable regulations. The Secretary will cancel a producing lease after the judicial proceedings required under section 5(d) of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1334(d)).
(c) BOEM may cancel your lease if it determines that the lease was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation. You will have notice and an opportunity to be heard before BOEM cancels your lease.
(d) BOEM may cancel your lease at any time if it determines, after a hearing, that continued activity will probably cause serious harm or damage to
life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, any mineral, national security or defense, or the marine, coastal, or human environment; that the threat of harm or damage will not disappear or decrease to an acceptable level within a reasonable period of time; and the advantages of cancellation outweigh the advantages of continuing the lease.
(e) BOEM may cancel your lease at any time after operations under the lease have been suspended or temporarily prohibited by the Department continuously for a period of five years pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, absent your request for a shorter period.
(f) If, upon demand, you fail to provide a bond, or alternative type of security instrument acceptable to BOEM, the Regional Director may assess penalties or cancel your lease in accordance with part 550, subpart N of this chapter;
(g) Title 30, part 550, subpart A of the CFR provides the procedures for lease cancellation and compensation, if applicable.

# Subpart L—Leases Maintained Under Section 6 of OCSLA
§ 556.1200
Effect of regulations on lease.
(a) All regulations in this part, insofar as they are applicable, will supersede the provisions of any lease that is maintained under section 6(a) of the Act. However, the provisions of a lease relating to area, minerals, rentals, royalties (subject to sections 6(a)(8) and (9) of the Act), and term (subject to section 6(a)(10) of the Act and, as to sulfur, subject to section 6(b)(2) of the Act) will continue in effect, and, in the event of any conflict or inconsistency, will take precedence over these regulations.
(b) A lease maintained under section 6(a) of the Act is also subject to all operating and conservation regulations applicable to the OCS. In addition, the regulations relating to geophysical and geological exploratory operations and to pipeline ROW(s) are applicable, to the extent that those regulations are not contrary to or inconsistent with the lease provisions relating to area, minerals, rentals, royalties and term. The lessee must comply with any provision of the lease as validated, the subject matter of which is not covered in the regulations in this part.
§ 556.1201
Section 6(a) leases and leases other than those for oil, gas, or sulfur.
The existence of an oil and gas lease maintained under section 6(a) of the Act precludes only the issuance in the same area of an oil and gas lease under OCSLA, but does not preclude the issuance of other types of leases under OCSLA. However, no other lease may authorize or permit the lessee thereunder unreasonably to interfere with or endanger operations under the existing lease. The United States will not grant any sulfur leases on any area that is included in a lease covering sulfur under section 6(b) of the Act.

# Subpart M—Environmental Studies
§ 556.1300
Environmental studies.
(a) The Director will conduct a study or studies of any area or region included in any oil and gas lease sale or other lease in order to establish information needed for assessment and management of impacts on the human, marine and coastal environments which may be affected by OCS oil and gas or other mineral activities in such area or region. The purposes of such studies will include, to the extent practicable, analyses of the impacts of pollutants introduced into the environments and impacts of offshore activities on the seabed and affected coastal areas.
(b) Studies will be planned and carried out in cooperation with the affected States and interested parties and, to the extent possible, will not duplicate studies done under other laws. Where appropriate, the Director will, to the maximum extent practicable, coordinate with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) in executing its environmental studies responsibilities. The Director may also make agreements for the coordination with, or the use of the services or resources of, any other Federal, State or local government agency in the conduct of such studies.
(c) Any study of an area or region required by paragraph (a) of this section for a lease sale will be commenced not later than six months prior to holding a lease sale for that area. The Director may use information collected in any prior study. The Director may initiate studies for an area or region not identified in the leasing program.
(d) After the leasing and developing of any area or region, the Director will conduct such studies as are deemed necessary to establish additional information and will monitor the human, marine and coastal environments of such area or region in a manner designed to provide information, which can be compared with the results of studies conducted prior to OCS oil and gas development. This will be done to identify any significant changes in the quality and productivity of such environments, to establish trends in the area studies, and to design experiments identifying the causes of such changes. Findings from such studies will be used to recommend modifications in practices that are employed to mitigate the effects of OCS activities and to enhance the data/information base for predicting impacts which might result from a single lease sale or cumulative OCS activities.
(e) Information available or collected by the studies program will, to the extent practicable, be provided in a form and in a timeframe that can be used in the decision-making process associated with a specific leasing action or with longer term OCS minerals management responsibilities.
Pt. 560

# PART 560—OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF OIL AND GAS LEASING

# Subpart A—General Provisions
560.100
Authority.
560.100
What is the purpose of this part?
560.102
What definitions apply to this part?
560.103
What is BOEM's authority to collect information?

# Subpart B—Bidding Systems

# General Provisions
560.200
What is the purpose of this subpart?
560.201
What definitions apply to this subpart?
560.202
What bidding systems may BOEM use?
560.203
What conditions apply to the bidding systems that BOEM uses?

# Eligible Leases
560.210
How do royalty suspension volumes apply to eligible leases?
560.211
When does an eligible lease qualify for a royalty suspension volume?
560.212
How does BOEM assign and monitor royalty suspension volumes for eligible leases?
560.213
How long will a royalty suspension volume for an eligible lease be effective?
550.214
How do I measure natural gas production on my eligible lease?

# Royalty Suspensions (RS) Leases
560.220
How does royalty suspension apply to leases issued in a sale held after November 2000?
560.221
When does a lease issued in a sale held after November 2000 get a royalty suspension?
560.222
How long will a royalty suspension volume be effective for a lease issued in a sale held after November 2000?
560.223
How do I measure natural gas production for a lease issued in a sale held after November 2000?
560.224
How will royalty suspension apply if BOEM assigns a lease issued in a sale held after November 2000 to a field that has a pre-Act lease?

# Bidding System Selection Criteria
560.230
What criteria does BOEM use for selecting bidding systems and bidding system components?

# Subpart C—Operating Allowances
560.300
Operating allowances.
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Electronic Filings
560.500
Electronic document and data transmissions.
560.501
How long will the confidentiality of electronic document and data transmissions be maintained?
560.502
Are electronically filed document transmissions legally binding?

# Authority:
Section 104, Public Law 97-451, 96 Stat. 2451 (30 U.S.C. 1714), Public Law 109-432, Div C, Title I, 120 Stat. 3000; 30 U.S.C. 1751; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 43 U.S.C. 1334; 33 U.S.C. 2704, 2716; E.O. 12777, as amended; 43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.,
43 U.S.C. 1337.

# Source:
76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 560.100
Authority.
(a) The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA) (43 U.S.C. 1334) (“Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Amendments of 1978”).
(b) The Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act, as amended (FOGRMA) (30 U.S.C. 1711), including the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Simplification and Fairness Act of 1996, (30 U.S.C. 1701 note).
(c) The Independent Offices Appropriations Act of 1952 (31 U.S.C. 9701).
(d) Public Law 89-554, 1966 (5 U.S.C. 301).
[81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 560.101
What is the purpose of this part?
This part 560 implements the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA), 43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.,
as amended, by providing regulations to foster competition including, but not limited to:
(a) Implementing alternative bidding systems;
(b) Prohibiting joint bidding for development rights by certain types of joint ventures; and
(c) Establishing diligence requirements for Federal OCS leases.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 560.102
What definitions apply to this part?
What definitions apply to this part?
(a) Terms used in this part have the meaning given in the Act and as defined in this part.
(b) The following definitions apply to this part:
Area or region
means the geographic area or region over which the BOEM authorized officer has jurisdiction, unless the context in which those words are used indicates that a different meaning is intended.
BOEM
means Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.
Designated official
means a representative of DOI subject to the direction and supervisory authority of the Directors, BOEM, and the appropriate Regional Manager of the BOEM authorized and empowered to supervise and direct all oil and gas operations and to perform other duties prescribed in this chapter.
Director
means Director, BOEM, DOI.
DOI
means the Department of the Interior, including the Secretary of the Interior, or his or her delegate.
Federal lease
means an agreement which, for consideration, including, but not limited to, bonuses, rents or royalties conferred, and covenants to be observed, authorizes a person to explore for, or develop, or produce (or to do any or all of these) oil and gas, coal, oil shale, tar sands, and geothermal resources on lands or interests in lands under Federal jurisdiction.
Gas or Natural Gas
means a mixture of hydrocarbons and varying quantities of non-hydrocarbons that exist in the gaseous phase.
Oil
means a mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in a liquid or gaseous phase in an underground reservoir and which remains or becomes liquid at atmospheric pressure after passing through surface separating facilities, including condensate recovered by means other than a manufacturing process.
Outer Continental Shelf
(OCS) means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301-1315) and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
OCSLA
means the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended (Act of August 7, 1953, Ch. 345, 67 Stat. 462, 43 U.S.C. 1331-1356a, as amended by Pub. L. 95-372, 92 Stat. 629).
Person
means a natural person, where so designated, or an entity, such as a partnership, association, State, political subdivision of a State or territory, or a private, public, or municipal corporation.
We
means the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM).
You
means the lessee or operating rights owner.
[81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 560.103
What is BOEM's authority to collect information?
(a) The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA) requires us to inform you that we may not conduct or sponsor,
and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. The information collection under 30 CFR part 560 is either exempt from the PRA (5 CFR 1320.4(a)(2), (c)) or refers to requirements covered under 30 CFR parts 203 and 556.
(b) You may send comments regarding any aspect of the collection of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57097, Sept. 22, 2015. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]

# Subpart B—Bidding Systems

# General Provisions
§ 560.200
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes the bidding systems that we may use to offer and sell Federal leases for the exploration, development, and production of oil and gas resources located on the OCS.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 560.201
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Act
means the Outer Continental Shelf Deep Water Royalty Relief Act, Pub. L. 104-58, 43 U.S.C. 1337(3).
Eligible lease
means a lease that:
(1) Is issued as part of an OCS lease sale held after November 28, 1995, and before November 28, 2000;
(2) Is located in the Gulf of America in water depths of 200 meters or deeper;
(3) Lies wholly west of 87 degrees, 30 minutes West longitude; and
(4) Is offered subject to a royalty suspension volume.
Field
means an area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped on, or related to, the same general geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic trapping condition. Two or more reservoirs may be in a field, separated vertically by intervening impervious strata, or laterally by local geologic barriers, or by both.
Highest responsible qualified bidder
means a person who has met the appropriate requirements of 30 CFR part 556, subpart G, and has submitted a bid higher than any other bids by qualified bidders on the same tract.
Highest royalty rate
means the highest percent rate payable to the United States, as specified in the lease, in the amount or value of the production saved, removed, or sold.
Lease period
means the time from lease issuance until relinquishment, expiration, or termination.
Lowest royalty rate
means the lowest percent rate payable to the United States, as specified in the lease, in the amount or value of the production saved, removed, or sold.
OCS lease sale
means the Department of the Interior (DOI) proceeding by which leases for certain OCS tracts are offered for sale by competitive bidding and during which bids are received, announced, and recorded.
Pre-Act lease
means a lease that:
(1) Is issued as part of an OCS lease sale held before November 28, 1995;
(2) Is located in the Gulf of America in water depths of 200 meters or deeper; and
(3) Lies wholly west of 87 degrees, 30 minutes West longitude (see 30 CFR part 203).
Production period
means the period during which the amount of oil and gas produced from a tract (or, if the tract is unitized, the amount of oil and gas as allocated under a unitization formula) will be measured for purposes of determining the amount of royalty payable to the United States.
Qualified bidder
means a person who has met the appropriate requirements of 30 CFR part 556, subpart G.
Royalty rate
means the percentage of the amount or value of the production saved, removed, or sold that is due and payable to the United States Government.
Royalty suspension (RS) lease
means a lease that:
(1) Is issued as part of an OCS lease sale held after November 28, 2000;
(2) Is in locations or planning areas specified in a particular Notice of OCS Lease Sale; and
(3) Is offered subject to a royalty suspension specified in a Notice of OCS
Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register.
Tract
means a designation assigned solely for administrative purposes to a block or combination of blocks that are identified by a leasing map or an official protraction diagram prepared by the DOI.
Value of production
means the value of all oil and gas production saved, removed, or sold from a tract (or, if the tract is unitized, the value of all oil and gas production saved, removed, or sold and credited to the tract under a unitization formula) during a period of production. The value of production is determined under 30 CFR part 1206.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 90 FR 24072, June 6, 2025]
§ 560.202
What bidding systems may BOEM use?
We will apply a single bidding system selected from those listed in this section to each tract included in an OCS lease sale. The following table lists bidding systems, the bid variables, and characteristics.
For the bidding system . . .
The bid variable is the . . .
And the characteristics are . . .
(a) Cash bonus bid with a fixed royalty rate of not less than 12.5 percent,
Cash bonus,
The highest responsible qualified bidder will pay a royalty rate of not less than 12.5 percent at the beginning of the lease period. We will specify the royalty rate for each tract offered in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register.
(b) Royalty rate bid with fixed cash bonus,
Royalty rate,
We will specify the fixed amount of cash bonus the highest responsible qualified bidder must pay in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register.
(c) Cash bonus bid with a sliding royalty rate of not less than 12.5 percent at the beginning of the lease period,
Cash bonus,
(1) We will calculate the royalty rate the highest responsible qualified bidder must pay using either:
(i) A sliding-scale formula, which relates the royalty rate to the adjusted value or volume of production, or
(ii) A schedule that establishes the royalty rate that we will apply to specified ranges of the adjusted value or volume of production.
(2) We will determine the adjusted value of production by applying an inflation factor to the actual value of production.
(3) If you are the successful high bidder, your lease will include the sliding-scale formula or schedule and will specify the lowest and highest royalty rates that will apply.
(4) You will pay a royalty rate of not less than 12.5 percent at the beginning of the lease period.
(5) We will include the sliding-scale royalty formula or schedule, inflation factor and procedures for making the inflation adjustment and determining the value or amount of production in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register.
(d) Cash bonus bid with fixed share of the net profits of no less than 30 percent,
Cash bonus,
(1) If we award you a lease as the highest responsible qualified bidder, you will determine the amount of the net profit share payment to the United States for each month by multiplying the net profit share base times the net profit share rate, according to 30 CFR 1220.022. You will calculate the net profit share base according to 30 CFR 1220.021.
(2) You will pay a net profit share of not less than 30 percent.
(3) We will specify the capital recovery factor, as described in 30 CFR 1220.020, and the net profit share rate, both of which may vary from tract to tract, in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register.
(e) Cash bonus with variable royalty rate(s) during one or more periods of production,
Cash bonus,
(1) We may suspend or defer royalty for a period, volume, or value of production. Notwithstanding suspensions or deferrals, we may impose a minimum royalty. The suspensions or deferrals may vary based on prices or price changes of oil and/or gas.
(2) You may pay a royalty rate less than 12.5 percent on production but not less than zero percent.
(3) We will specify the applicable royalty rates(s) and suspension or deferral magnitudes, formulas, or relationships in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register.
(f) Cash bonus with royalty rate(s) based on formula(s) or schedule(s) during one or more periods of production,
Cash bonus,
We will base the royalty rate on formula(s) or schedule(s) specified in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register.
(g) Cash bonus with a fixed royalty rate of not less than 12.5 percent, at the beginning of the lease period, suspension of royalties for a period, volume, or value of production, or depending upon selected characteristics of extraction, and with suspensions that may vary based on the price of production,
Cash bonus,
Except for periods of royalty suspension, you will pay a fixed royalty rate of not less than 12.5 percent. If we award to you a lease under this system, you must calculate the royalty due during the designated period using the rate, formula, or schedule specified in the lease. We will specify the royalty rate, formula, or schedule in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 560.203
What conditions apply to the bidding systems that BOEM uses?
(a) For each of the bidding systems in § 560.110, we will include an annual rental fee. Other fees and provisions may apply as well. The Notice of OCS Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register
will specify the annual rental and any other fees the highest responsible qualified bidder must pay and any other provisions.
(b) If we use any deferment or schedule of payments for the cash bonus bid, we will specify and include it in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register.
(c) For the bidding systems listed in this subpart, if the bid variable is a cash bonus bid, the highest bid by a qualified bidder determines the amount of cash bonus to be paid. We will include the minimum bid level(s) in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register.
(d) For the bidding systems listed in this subpart, if the bid variable is the royalty rate, the highest bid by a qualified bidder determines the royalty rate to be paid. We will include the minimum royalty rate(s) in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register.
(e) We may, by rule, add to or modify the bidding systems listed in § 560.110, according to the procedural requirements of the OCSLA, 43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.,
as amended by Public Law 95-372, 92 Stat. 629.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]

# Eligible Leases
§ 560.210
How do royalty suspension volumes apply to eligible leases?
Royalty suspension volumes, as specified in section 304 of the Act, apply to eligible leases that meet the criteria in § 560.113. For purposes of this section and §§ 560.113 through 560.117:
(a) Any volumes of production that are not normally royalty-bearing under the lease or the regulations (e.g., fuel gas) do not count against royalty suspension volumes; and
(b) Production includes volumes allocated to a lease under an approved unit agreement.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 560.211
When does an eligible lease qualify for a royalty suspension volume?
(a) Your eligible lease will receive a royalty suspension volume as specified in the Act. The bidding system in § 560.110(g) applies.
(b) Your eligible lease may receive a royalty suspension volume only if your entire lease is west of 87 degrees, 30 minutes West longitude.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 560.212
How does BOEM assign and monitor royalty suspension volumes for eligible leases?
(a) We have specified the water depth category for each eligible lease in the final Notice of OCS Lease Sale Package. The Final Notice of Sale is published in the
Federal Register
and the complete Final Notice of OCS Lease Sale Package is available on the
BOEM Web site. Our determination of water depth for each lease became final when we issued the lease.
(b) We have specified in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale the royalty suspension volume applicable to each water depth. The following table shows the royalty suspension volumes for each eligible lease in million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBOE):
Water depth
Minimum royalty suspension volume
(1) 200 to less than 400 meters
17.5 MMBOE.
(2) 400 to less than 800 meters
52.5 MMBOE.
(3) 800 meters or more
87.5 MMBOE.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 560.213
How long will a royalty suspension volume for an eligible lease be effective?
A royalty suspension volume for an eligible lease will continue through the end of the month in which cumulative production from the leases in a field entitled to share the royalty suspension volume reaches that volume or the lease period ends.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 560.214
How do I measure natural gas production on my eligible lease?
You must measure natural gas production on your eligible lease subject to the royalty suspension volume as follows: 5.62 thousand cubic feet of natural gas, measured according to 30 CFR part 250, subpart L, equals one barrel of oil equivalent.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]

# Royalty Suspension (RS) Leases
§ 560.220
How does royalty suspension apply to leases issued in a sale held after November 2000?
We may issue leases with suspension of royalties for a period, volume or value of production, as authorized in section 303 of the Act. For purposes of this section and §§ 560.121 through 560.124:
(a) Any volumes of production that are not normally royalty-bearing under the lease or the regulations (e.g., fuel gas) do not count against royalty suspension volumes; and
(b) Production includes volumes allocated to a lease under an approved unit agreement.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 560.221
When does a lease issued in a sale held after November 2000 get a royalty suspension?
(a) We will specify any royalty suspension for your RS lease in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale published in the
Federal Register
for the sale in which you acquire the RS lease and will repeat it in the lease document. In addition:
(1) Your RS lease may produce royalty-free the royalty suspension we specify for your lease, even if the field to which we assign it is producing.
(2) The royalty suspension we specify in the Notice of OCS Lease Sale for your lease does not apply to any other leases in the field to which we assign your RS lease.
(b) You may apply for a supplemental royalty suspension for a project under 30 CFR part 203, if your lease is located:
(1) In the Gulf of America, in water 200 meters or deeper, and wholly west of 87 degrees, 30 minutes West longitude; or
(2) Offshore of Alaska.
(c) Your RS lease retains the royalty suspension with which we issued it even if we deny your application for more relief.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 90 FR 24072, June 6, 2025]
§ 560.222
How long will a royalty suspension volume be effective for a lease issued in a sale held after November 2000?
(a) The royalty suspension volume for your RS lease will continue through the end of the month in which cumulative production from your lease reaches the applicable royalty suspension volume or the lease period ends.
(b)(1) Notwithstanding any royalty suspension volume under this subpart, you must pay royalty at the lease stipulated rate on:
(i) Any oil produced for any period stipulated in the lease during which the arithmetic average of the daily closing price on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) for light sweet crude oil exceeds the applicable threshold price of $36.39 per barrel, adjusted annually after calendar year 2007 for inflation unless the lease terms prescribe a different price threshold.
(ii) Any natural gas produced for any period stipulated in the lease during which the arithmetic average of the daily closing price on the NYMEX for natural gas exceeds the applicable threshold price of $4.55 per MMBtu, adjusted annually after calendar year 2007 for inflation unless the lease terms prescribe a different price threshold.
(iii) Determine the threshold price for any calendar year after 2007 by adjusting the threshold price in the previous year by the percentage that the implicit price deflator for the gross domestic product, as published by the Department of Commerce, changed during the calendar year.
(2) You must pay any royalty due under this paragraph, plus late payment interest under 30 CFR 1218.54, no later than 90 days after the end of the period for which royalty is owed.
(3) Any production on which you must pay royalty under this paragraph will count toward the production volume determined under §§ 560.120 through 560.124.
(c) If you must pay royalty on any product (either oil or natural gas) for any period under paragraph (b) of this section, you must continue to pay royalty on that product during the next succeeding period of the same length until the arithmetic average of the daily closing NYMEX prices for that product for that period can be determined. If the arithmetic average of the daily closing prices for that product for that period is less than the threshold price stipulated in the lease, you are entitled to a credit or refund of royalties paid for that period with interest under applicable law.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 560.223
How do I measure natural gas production for a lease issued in a sale held after November 2000?
You must measure natural gas production subject to the royalty suspension volume for your lease as follows: 5.62 thousand cubic feet of natural gas, measured according to 30 CFR part 250, subpart L, equals one barrel of oil equivalent.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]
§ 560.224
How will royalty suspension apply if BOEM assigns a lease issued in a sale held after November 2000 to a field that has a pre-Act lease?
(a) We will assign your lease that has a qualifying well (under 30 CFR part 250, subpart A) to an existing field or designate a new field and will notify you and other affected lessees and operating rights holders in the field of that assignment.
(1) Within 15 days of the final notification, you or any of the other affected lessees or operating rights holders may file a written request with the Director for reconsideration, accompanied by a Statement of Reasons.
(2) The Director will respond in writing either affirming or reversing the assignment decision. The Director's decision is the final action of the Department of the Interior and is not subject to appeal to the Interior Board of Land Appeals under 30 CFR part 590 and 43 CFR part 4.
(b) If we establish a royalty suspension volume for a field as a result of an approved application for royalty relief submitted for a pre-Act lease under 30 CFR part 203, then:
(1) Royalty-free production from your RS lease shares from and counts as part of any royalty suspension volume under § 560.114(d) for the field to which we assign your lease; and
(2) Your RS lease may continue to produce royalty-free up to the royalty suspension we specified for your lease, even if the field to which we assign your RS lease has produced all of its royalty suspension volume.
(c) Your lease may share in a suspension volume larger than the royalty suspension with which we issued it and to the extent we grant a larger volume
in response to an application by a pre-Act lease submitted under 30 CFR part 203. To share in any larger royalty suspension volume, you must file an application described in 30 CFR part 203 (§§ 203.71 and 203.83). In no case will royalty-free production for your RS lease be less than the royalty suspension specified for your lease.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011. Redesignated at 81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]

# Bidding System Selection Criteria
§ 560.230
What criteria does BOEM use for selecting bidding systems and bidding system components?
In analyzing the application of one of the bidding systems listed in § 560.110 to tracts selected for any OCS lease sale, we may, at our discretion, consider the following purposes and policies. We recognize that each of the purposes and policies may not be specifically applicable to the selection process for a particular bidding system or tract, or may present a conflict that we will have to resolve in the process of bidding system selection. The order of listing does not denote a ranking.
(a) Providing fair return to the Federal Government;
(b) Increasing competition;
(c) Ensuring competent and safe operations;
(d) Avoiding undue speculation;
(e) Avoiding unnecessary delays in exploration, development, and production;
(f) Discovering and recovering oil and gas;
(g) Developing new oil and gas resources in an efficient and timely manner;
(h) Limiting the administrative burdens on Government and industry; and
(i) Providing an opportunity to experiment with various bidding systems to enable us to identify those most appropriate for the satisfaction of the objectives of the United States in OCS lease sales.

# Subpart C—Operating Allowances
§ 560.300
Operating allowances.
Notwithstanding any other provision in the regulations in this part, BOEM may issue a lease containing an operating allowance when so specified in the final notice of sale and the lease. The allowance amount or formula will be specified in the final notice of sale and in the lease.
[81 FR 18175, Mar. 10, 2016]
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Electronic Filings

# Source:
81 FR 18176, Mar. 30, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 560.500
Electronic document and data transmissions.
(a) BOEM may notify you that it will allow or request you to submit the following information electronically through BOEM's secure electronic filing system, through an alternate secure electronic filing system supported and maintained by the Department, or through some other electronic filing system that BOEM has approved for this purpose:
(1) Any document(s) or information described in the Qualifications section of part 556 of this chapter, as specified in subpart E. Such information would include, but not be limited to, the official name of the qualifying person, its legal and business address or addresses, its legal form and status, and the names and contact information of a person or organization authorized to act on the person's behalf.
(2) Any document(s) or information required to obtain BOEM's approval of an assignment or sublease, including any form or instrument that creates or transfers ownership of a lease interest.
(3) Any document(s) or information required to obtain BOEM's approval of your relinquishment of all, or any aliquot part of your lease, as specified in § 556.1101 of this chapter.
(4) Any document(s) creating, transferring or assigning economic interests, as specified in §§ 556.715 and 556.808 of this chapter.
(5) Any document(s) related to a bond, U.S. Treasury note or other security provided to BOEM, which is required to guarantee your compliance with terms and conditions of a lease.
(6) Any document(s) or information necessary to bid for an OCS lease.
(7) Any forms, document(s) or information necessary to determine worst case oil-spill discharge volume(s), or to provide evidence demonstrating oil spill financial responsibility, or to guarantee such financial responsibility or to comply with any other requirements of the Oil Spill Financial Responsibility Program, as described in part 553 of this chapter.
(b) BOEM reserves the right to require the electronic filing of any document(s) or information addressed in paragraph (a)(5) of this section upon a 90-day notice published in the
Federal Register
; if BOEM mandates that you transmit such document(s) or information electronically, the
Federal Register
notice will specify the filing details necessary to comply with this regulation.
(c) In the event BOEM sends documents to you in a secure electronic format, you may either return the document(s) in an electronic format utilizing the same secure transmission mechanism or print the document(s) and return them.
(d) BOEM may electronically acknowledge, approve, sign, or execute any document(s) referenced in this section.
§ 560.501
How long will the confidentiality of electronic document and data transmissions be maintained?
The confidentiality of any electronically submitted information will be maintained for the same proprietary term that would apply to the corresponding non-electronic confidential submission, pursuant to § 556.104(b) of this chapter.
§ 560.502
Are electronically filed document transmissions legally binding?
Any document or information referenced in § 560.500 which is submitted to BOEM through a secure electronic filing system that is approved by BOEM will be legally binding, without the need for a paper copy thereof.
Pt. 570

# PART 570—NONDISCRIMINATION IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
Sec.
570.1
Purpose.
570.2
Application of this part.
570.3
Definitions.
570.4
Discrimination prohibited.
570.5
Complaint.
570.6
Process.
570.7
Remedies.

# Authority:
43 U.S.C. 1863.

# Source:
76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 570.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the provisions of section 604 of the OCSLA of 1978 which provides that “no person shall, on the grounds of race, creed, color, national origin, or sex, be excluded from receiving or participating in any activity, sale, or employment, conducted pursuant to the provisions of * * * the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.”
§ 570.2
Application of this part.
This part applies to any contract or subcontract entered into by a lessee or by a contractor or subcontractor of a lessee after the effective date of these regulations to provide goods, services, facilities, or property in an amount of $10,000 or more in connection with any activity related to the exploration for or development and production of oil, gas, or other minerals or materials in the OCS under the Act.
§ 570.3
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following terms shall have the following meaning:
Contract
means any business agreement or arrangement (in which the parties do not stand in the relationship of employer and employee) between a lessee and any person which creates an obligation to provide goods, services, facilities, or property.
Lessee
means the party authorized by a lease, grant of right-of-way, or an approved assignment thereof to explore, develop, produce, or transport oil, gas, or other minerals or materials in the OCS pursuant to the Act and this part.
Person
means a person or company, including but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, association, joint stock venture, trust, mutual fund, or any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, or other official acting in a similar capacity for such company.
Subcontract
means any business agreement or arrangement (in which the parties do not stand in the relationship of employer and employee) between a lessee's contractor and any person other than a lessee that is in any way related to the performance of any one or more contracts.
§ 570.4
Discrimination prohibited.
No contract or subcontract to which this part applies shall be denied to or withheld from any person on the grounds of race, creed, color, national origin, or sex.
§ 570.5
Complaint.
(a) Whenever any person believes that he or she has been denied a contract or subcontract to which this part applies on the grounds of race, creed, color, national origin, or sex, such person may complain of such denial or withholding to the Regional Director of the OCS Region in which such action is alleged to have occurred. Any complaint filed under this part must be submitted in writing to the appropriate Regional Director not later than 180 days after the date of the alleged unlawful denial of a contract or subcontract which is the basis of the complaint.
(b) The complaint referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall be accompanied by such evidence as may be available to a person and which is relevant to the complaint including affidavits and other documents.
(c) Whenever any person files a complaint under this part, the Regional Director with whom such complaint is filed shall give written notice of such filing to all persons cited in the complaint no later than 10 days after receipt of such complaint. Such notice shall include a statement describing the alleged incident of discrimination, including the date and the names of persons involved in it.
§ 570.6
Process.
Whenever a Regional Director determines on the basis of any information, including that which may be obtained under § 570.5 of this part, that a violation of or failure to comply with any provision of this subpart probably occurred, the Regional Director shall undertake to afford the complainant and the person(s) alleged to have violated the provisions of this part an opportunity to engage in informal consultations, meetings, or any other form of communications for the purpose of resolving the complaint. In the event such communications or consultations result in a mutually satisfactory resolution of the complaint, the complainant and all persons cited in the complaint shall notify the Regional Director in writing of their agreement to such resolution. If either the complainant or the person(s) alleged to have wrongfully discriminated fail to provide such written notice within a reasonable period of time, the Regional Director must proceed in accordance with the provisions of 30 CFR part 550, subpart N.
§ 570.7
Remedies.
In addition to the penalties available under 30 CFR part 550, subpart N, the Director may invoke any other remedies available to him or her under the Act or regulations for the lessee's failure to comply with provisions of the Act, regulations, or lease.
Pt. 580

# PART 580—PROSPECTING FOR MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
580.1
What definitions apply to this part?
580.2
What is the purpose of this part?
580.3
What requirements must I follow when I conduct prospecting or research activities?
580.4
What activities are not covered by this part?

# Subpart B—How To Apply for a Permit or File a Notice
580.10
What must I do before I may conduct prospecting activities?
580.11
What must I do before I may conduct scientific research?
580.12
What must I include in my application or notification?
580.13
Where must I send my application or notification?

# Subpart C—Obligations Under This Part

# Prohibitions and Requirements
580.20
What must I not do in conducting Geological and Geophysical (G
G) prospecting or scientific research?
580.21
What must I do in conducting G
G prospecting or scientific research?
580.22
What must I do when seeking approval for modifications?
580.23
How must I cooperate with inspection activities?
580.24
What reports must I file?

# Interrupted Activities
580.25
When may BOEM require me to stop activities under this part?
580.26
When may I resume activities?
580.27
When may BOEM cancel my permit?
580.28
May I relinquish my permit?

# Environmental Issues
580.29
Will BOEM monitor the environmental effects of my activity?
580.30
What activities will not require environmental analysis?
580.31
Whom will BOEM notify about environmental issues?

# Penalties and Appeals
580.32
What penalties may I be subject to?
580.33
How can I appeal a penalty?
580.34
How can I appeal an order or decision?

# Subpart D—Data Requirements

# Geological Data and Information
580.40
When do I notify BOEM that geological data and information are available for submission, inspection, and selection?
580.41
What types of geological data and information must I submit to BOEM?
580.42
When geological data and information are obtained by a third party, what must we both do?

# ysical Data and Information
580.50
When do I notify BOEM that geophysical data and information are available for submission, inspection, and selection?
580.51
What types of geophysical data and information must I submit to BOEM?
580.52
When geophysical data and information are obtained by a third party, what must we both do?

# Reimbursement
580.60
Which of my costs will be reimbursed?
580.61
Which of my costs will not be reimbursed?

# Protections
580.70
What data and information will be protected from public disclosure?
580.71
What is the timetable for release of data and information?
580.72
What procedure will BOEM follow to disclose acquired data and information to a contractor for reproduction, processing, and interpretation?
580.73
Will BOEM share data and information with coastal States?

# Subpart E—Information Collection
580.80
Paperwork Reduction Act statement—information collection.

# Authority:
Section 104, Public Law 97-451, 96 Stat. 2451 (30 U.S.C. 1714), Public Law 109-432, Div C, Title I, 120 Stat. 3000; 30 U.S.C. 1751; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 43 U.S.C. 1334; 33 U.S.C. 2704, 2716; E.O. 12777, as amended; 43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.,
43 U.S.C. 1337.

# Source:
76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Information
§ 580.1
What definitions apply to this part?
Definitions in this part have the following meaning:
Act
means the OCS Lands Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
).
Adjacent State
means with respect to any activity proposed, conducted, or approved under this part, any coastal State(s):
(1) That is used, or is scheduled to be used, as a support base for geological and geophysical (G
G) prospecting or scientific research activities; or
(2) In which there is a reasonable probability of significant effect on land or water uses from such activity.
Analyzed geological information
means data collected under a permit or a lease that have been analyzed. Some examples of analysis include, but are not limited to, identification of lithologic and fossil content, core analyses, laboratory analyses of physical and chemical properties, well logs or charts, results from formation fluid tests, and descriptions of mineral occurrences or hazardous conditions.
Archaeological interest
means capable of providing scientific or humanistic understandings of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques, such as
controlled observation, contextual measurement, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation, and explanation.
Archaeological resource
means any material remains of human life or activities that are at least 50 years of age and are of archaeological interest.
Coastal environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the terrestrial ecosystem from the shoreline inward to the boundaries of the coastal zone.
Coastal zone
means the coastal waters (including the lands therein and thereunder) and the adjacent shorelands (including the waters therein and thereunder) that are strongly influenced by each other and in proximity to the shorelands of the several coastal States. The coastal zone includes islands, transition and intertidal areas, salt marshes, wetlands, and beaches. The coastal zone extends seaward to the outer limit of the United States territorial sea and extends inland from the shorelines to the extent necessary to control shorelands, the uses of which have a direct and significant impact on the coastal waters, and the inward boundaries of which may be identified by the several coastal States, under the authority in section 305(b)(1) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972.
Coastal Zone Management Act
means the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
).
Data
means facts and statistics, measurements, or samples that have not been analyzed, processed, or interpreted.
Deep stratigraphic test
means drilling that involves the penetration into the sea bottom of more than 500 feet (152 meters).
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, U.S. Department of the Interior, or an official authorized to act on the Director's behalf.
Geological and geophysical (G
G) prospecting activities
mean the commercial search for mineral resources other than oil, gas, or sulphur. Activities classified as prospecting include, but are not limited to:
(1) Geological and geophysical marine and airborne surveys where magnetic, gravity, seismic reflection, seismic refraction, or the gathering through coring or other geological samples are used to detect or imply the presence of hard minerals; and
(2) Any drilling, whether on or off a geological structure.
Geological and geophysical (G
G) scientific research activities
mean any investigations related to hard minerals that are conducted on the OCS for academic or scientific research. These investigations would involve gathering and analyzing geological, geochemical, or geophysical data and information that are made available to the public for inspection and reproduction at the earliest practical time. The term does not include commercial G
G exploration or commercial G
G prospecting activities.
Geological data and information
means data and information gathered through or derived from geological and geochemical techniques, e.g., coring and test drilling, well logging, bottom sampling, or other physical sampling or chemical testing process.
Geological sample
means a collected portion of the seabed, the subseabed, or the overlying waters acquired while conducting prospecting or scientific research activities.
Geophysical data and information
means any data or information gathered through or derived from geophysical measurement or sensing techniques (e.g., gravity, magnetic, or seismic).
Governor
means the Governor of a State or the person or entity lawfully designated by or under State law to exercise the powers granted to a Governor under the Act.
Hard minerals
mean any minerals found on or below the surface of the seabed except for oil, gas, or sulphur.
Interpreted geological information
means the knowledge, often in the form of schematic cross sections, 3-dimensional representations, and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of geological data and analyzed and processed geologic information.
Interpreted geophysical information
means knowledge, often in the form of seismic cross sections, 3-dimensional representations, and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of geophysical data and processed geophysical information.
Lease
means, depending upon the requirements of the context, either:
(1) An agreement issued under section 8 or maintained under section 6 of the Act that authorizes mineral exploration, development and production; or
(2) The area covered by an agreement specified in paragraph (1) of this definition.
Material remains
means physical evidence of human habitation, occupation, use, or activity, including the site, location, or context in which evidence is situated.
Minerals
mean all minerals authorized by an Act of Congress to be produced from “public lands” as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702). The term includes oil, gas, sulphur, geopressured-geothermal and associated resources.
Notice
means a written statement of intent to conduct G
G scientific research that is:
(1) Related to hard minerals on the OCS; and
(2) Not covered under a permit.
Oil, gas, and sulphur
means oil, gas, and sulphur, geopressured-geothermal and associated resources, including gas hydrates.
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)
means all submerged lands:
(1) That lie seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301); and
(2) Whose subsoil and seabed belong to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Permit
means the contract or agreement, other than a lease, issued under this part. The permit gives a person the right, under appropriate statutes, regulations, and stipulations, to conduct on the OCS:
(1) Geological prospecting for hard minerals;
(2) Geophysical prospecting for hard minerals;
(3) Geological scientific research; or
(4) Geophysical scientific research.
Permittee
means the person authorized by a permit issued under this part to conduct activities on the OCS.
Person
means:
(1) A citizen or national of the United States;
(2) An alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States as defined in section 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20);
(3) A private, public, or municipal corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any State or territory thereof, and association of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens or private, public, or municipal corporations, States, or political subdivisions of States; or
(4) Anyone operating in a manner provided for by treaty or other applicable international agreements. The term does not include Federal agencies.
Processed geological or geophysical information
means data collected under a permit and later processed or reprocessed.
(1) Processing involves changing the form of data as to facilitate interpretation. Some examples of processing operations may include, but are not limited to:
(i) Applying corrections for known perturbing causes;
(ii) Rearranging or filtering data; and
(iii) Combining or transforming data elements.
(2) Reprocessing is the additional processing other than ordinary processing used in the general course of evaluation. Reprocessing operations may include varying identified parameters for the detailed study of a specific problem area.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or a subordinate authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.
Shallow test drilling
means drilling into the sea bottom to depths less than those specified in the definition of a deep stratigraphic test.
Significant archaeological resource
means those archaeological resources that meet the criteria of significance for eligibility of the National Register of Historic Places as defined in 36 CFR 60.4, or its successor.
Third party
means any person other than the permittee or a representative of the United States, including all persons who obtain data or information acquired under a permit from the permittee, or from another third party, by sale, trade, license agreement, or other means.
You
means a person who applies for and/or obtains a permit, or files a notice to conduct G
G prospecting or scientific research related to hard minerals on the OCS.
§ 580.2
What is the purpose of this part?
The purpose of this part is to:
(a) Allow you to conduct prospecting activities or scientific research activities on the OCS in Federal waters related to hard minerals on unleased lands or on lands under lease to a third party.
(b) Ensure that you carry out prospecting activities or scientific research activities in a safe and environmentally sound manner so as to prevent harm or damage to, or waste of, any natural resources (including any hard minerals in areas leased or not leased), any life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment.
(c) Inform you and third parties of your legal and contractual obligations.
(d) Inform you and third parties of:
(1) The U.S. Government's rights to access G
G data and information collected under permit on the OCS;
(2) Reimbursement we will make for data and information that are submitted; and
(3) The proprietary terms of data and information that we retain.
§ 580.3
What requirements must I follow when I conduct prospecting or research activities?
You must conduct G
G prospecting activities or scientific research activities under this part according to:
(a) The Act;
(b) The regulations in this part;
(c) Orders of the Director/Regional Director (RD); and
(d) Other applicable statutes, regulations, and amendments.
§ 580.4
What activities are not covered by this part?
This part does not apply to:
(a) G
G prospecting activities conducted by, or on behalf of, the lessee on a lease on the OCS;
(b) Federal agencies;
(c) Postlease activities for mineral resources other than oil, gas, and sulphur, which are covered by regulations at 30 CFR parts 582 and 282; and
(d) G
G exploration or G
G scientific research activities related to oil, gas, and sulphur, including gas hydrates, which are covered by regulations at 30 CFR parts 551 and 251.

# Subpart B—How To Apply for a Permit or File a Notice
§ 580.10
What must I do before I may conduct prospecting activities?
You must have a BOEM-approved permit to conduct G
G prospecting activities, including deep stratigraphic tests, for hard minerals. If you conduct both G
G prospecting activities, you must have a separate permit for each.
§ 580.11
What must I do before I may conduct scientific research?
You may conduct G
G scientific research activities related to hard minerals on the OCS only after you obtain a BOEM-approved permit or file a notice.
(a)
Permit.
You must obtain a permit if the research activities you want to conduct involve:
(1) Using solid or liquid explosives;
(2) Drilling a deep stratigraphic test; or
(3) Developing data and information for proprietary use or sale.
(b)
Notice.
If you conduct research activities (including federally funded research) not covered by paragraph (a) of this section, you must file a notice with the regional director at least 30 days before you begin. If you cannot file a 30-day notice, you must provide oral notification before you begin and follow up in writing. You must also inform BOEM in writing when you conclude your work.
§ 580.12
What must I include in my application or notification?
(a)
Permits.
You must submit to the Regional Director a signed original and three copies of the permit application form (Form BOEM-0134) at least 30 days before the startup date for activities in the permit area. If unusual circumstances prevent you from meeting this deadline, you must immediately contact the Regional Director to arrange an acceptable deadline. The form includes names of persons; the type, location, purpose, and dates of activity; and environmental and other information. A nonrefundable service fee of $2,012 must be paid electronically through
Pay.gov
at:
https://www.pay.gov/paygov/
and you must include a copy of the
Pay.gov
confirmation receipt page with your application.
(b)
Disapproval of permit application.
If we disapprove your application for a permit, the RD will explain the reasons for the disapproval and what you must do to obtain approval.
(c)
Notices.
You must sign and date a notice that includes:
(1) The name(s) of the person(s) who will conduct the proposed research;
(2) The name(s) of any other person(s) participating in the proposed research, including the sponsor;
(3) The type of research and a brief description of how you will conduct it;
(4) A map, plat, or chart, that shows the location where you will conduct research;
(5) The proposed projected starting and ending dates for your research activity;
(6) The name, registry number, registered owner, and port of registry of vessels used in the operation;
(7) The earliest practical time you expect to make the data and information resulting from your research activity available to the public;
(8) Your plan of how you will make the data and information you collect available to the public;
(9) A statement that you and others involved will not sell or withhold the data and information resulting from your research; and
(10) At your option, the nonexclusive use agreement for scientific research attachment to Form BOEM-0134. (If you submit this agreement, you do not have to submit the material required in paragraphs (c)(7), (c)(8), and (c)(9) of this section.)
§ 580.13
Where must I send my application or notification?
You must apply for a permit or file a notice at one of the following locations:
For the OCS off the . . .
Apply to . . .
(a) State of Alaska
Regional Supervisor for Resource Evaluation, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Alaska OCS Region, 3801 Centerpoint Drive, Suite 500, Anchorage, AK 99503.
(b) Atlantic Coast, Gulf of America, Puerto Rico, or U.S. territories in the Caribbean Sea
Regional Supervisor for Resource Evaluation, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Gulf of America OCS Region, 1201 Elmwood Park Boulevard, New Orleans, LA 70123-2394.
(c) States of California, Oregon, Washington, Hawaii, or U.S. territories in the Pacific Ocean
Regional Supervisor for Resource Evaluation, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Pacific OCS Region, 760 Paseo Camarillo, Suite 102 (CM 102), Camarillo, CA 93010.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57097, Sept. 22, 2015; 90 FR 24072, June 6, 2025]

# Subpart C—Obligations Under This Part

# Prohibitions and Requirements
§ 580.20
What must I not do in conducting Geological and Geophysical (G
G) prospecting or scientific research?
While conducting G
G prospecting or scientific research activities under a permit or notice, you must not:
(a) Interfere with or endanger operations under any lease, right-of-way, easement, right-of-use, notice, or permit issued or maintained under the Act;
(b) Cause harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment;
(c) Cause harm or damage to any mineral resources (in areas leased or not leased);
(d) Cause pollution;
(e) Disturb archaeological resources;
(f) Create hazardous or unsafe conditions;
(g) Unreasonably interfere with or cause harm to other uses of the area; or
(h) Claim any oil, gas, sulphur, or other minerals you discover while conducting operations under a permit or notice.
§ 580.21
What must I do in conducting G
G prospecting or scientific research?
While conducting G
G prospecting or scientific research activities under a permit or notice, you must:
(a) Immediately report to the Regional Director if you:
(1) Detect hydrocarbon or any other mineral occurrences;
(2) Detect environmental hazards that imminently threaten life and property; or
(3) Adversely affect the environment, aquatic life, archaeological resources, or other uses of the area where you are prospecting or conducting scientific research activities.
(b) Consult and coordinate your G
G activities with other users of the area for navigation and safety purposes.
(c) If you conduct shallow test drilling or deep stratigraphic test drilling activities, you must use the best available and safest technologies that the Regional Director considers economically feasible.
§ 580.22
What must I do when seeking approval for modifications?
Before you begin modified operations, you must submit a written request describing the modifications and receive the Regional Director's oral or written approval. If circumstances preclude a written request, you must make an oral request and follow up in writing.
§ 580.23
How must I cooperate with inspection activities?
(a) You must allow our representatives to inspect your G
G prospecting or any scientific research activities that are being conducted under a permit. They will determine whether operations are adversely affecting the environment, aquatic life, archaeological resources, or other uses of the area.
(b) BOEM will reimburse you for food, quarters, and transportation that you provide for our representatives if you send in your reimbursement request to the region that issued the permit within 90 days of the inspection.
§ 580.24
What reports must I file?
(a) You must submit status reports on a schedule specified in the permit and include a daily log of operations.
(b) You must submit a final report of G
G prospecting or scientific research activities under a permit within 30 days after you complete acquisition activities under the permit. You may combine the final report with the last status report and must include each of the following:
(1) A description of the work performed.
(2) Charts, maps, plats and digital navigation data in a format specified by the Regional Director, showing the areas and blocks in which any G
G prospecting or permitted scientific research activities were conducted. Identify the lines of geophysical traverses and their locations including a reference sufficient to identify the data produced during each activity.
(3) The dates on which you conducted the actual prospecting or scientific research activities.
(4) A summary of any:
(i) Hard mineral, hydrocarbon, or sulphur occurrences encountered;
(ii) Environmental hazards; and
(iii) Adverse effects of the G
G prospecting or scientific research activities on the environment, aquatic life, archaeological resources, or other uses of the area in which the activities were conducted.
(5) Other descriptions of the activities conducted as specified by the Regional Director.

# Interrupted Activities
§ 580.25
When may BOEM require me to stop activities under this part?
(a) We may temporarily stop prospecting or scientific research activities under a permit when the Regional Director determines that:
(1) Activities pose a threat of serious, irreparable, or immediate harm. This includes damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, and any minerals (in areas leased or not leased), to the marine, coastal, or human environment, or to an archaeological resource;
(2) You failed to comply with any applicable law, regulation, order or provision of the permit. This would include our required submission of reports, well records or logs, and G
G data and information within the time specified; or
(3) Stopping the activities is in the interest of National security or defense.
(b) The Regional Director will advise you either orally or in writing of the procedures to temporarily stop activities. We will confirm an oral notification in writing and deliver all written notifications by courier or certified/registered mail. You must stop all activities under a permit as soon as you receive an oral or written notification.
§ 580.26
When may I resume activities?
The Regional Director will advise you when you may start your permit activities again.
§ 580.27
When may BOEM cancel my permit?
The Regional Director may cancel a permit at any time.
(a) If we cancel your permit, the Regional Director will advise you by certified or registered mail 30 days before the cancellation date and will state the reason.
(b) After we cancel your permit, you are still responsible for proper abandonment of any drill site according to the requirements of 30 CFR 251.7(b)(8). You must comply with all other obligations specified in this part or in the permit.
§ 580.28
May I relinquish my permit?
(a) You may relinquish your permit at any time by advising the Regional Director by certified or registered mail 30 days in advance.
(b) After you relinquish your permit, you are still responsible for proper abandonment of any drill sites according to the requirements of 30 CFR 251.7(b)(8). You must also comply with all other obligations specified in this part or in the permit.

# Environmental Issues
§ 580.29
Will BOEM monitor the environmental effects of my activity?
We will evaluate the potential of proposed prospecting or scientific research activities for adverse impact on the environment to determine the need for mitigation measures.
§ 580.30
What activities will not require environmental analysis?
We anticipate that activities of the type listed below typically will not cause significant environmental impact and will normally be categorically excluded from additional environmental analysis. The types of activities include:
(a) Gravity and magnetometric observations and measurements;
(b) Bottom and subbottom acoustic profiling or imaging without the use of explosives;
(c) Hard minerals sampling of a limited nature such as shallow test drilling;
(d) Water and biotic sampling, if the sampling does not adversely affect shellfish beds, marine mammals, or an endangered species or if permitted by the National Marine Fisheries Service or another Federal agency;
(e) Meteorological observations and measurements, including the setting of instruments;
(f) Hydrographic and oceanographic observations and measurements, including the setting of instruments;
(g) Sampling by box core or grab sampler to determine seabed geological or geotechnical properties;
(h) Television and still photographic observation and measurements;
(i) Shipboard hard mineral assaying and analysis; and
(j) Placement of positioning systems, including bottom transponders and surface and subsurface buoys reported in Notices to Mariners.
§ 580.31
Whom will BOEM notify about environmental issues?
(a) In cases where Coastal Zone Management Act consistency review is required, the Director will notify the Governor of each adjacent State with a copy of the application for a permit immediately upon the submission for approval.
(b) In cases where an environmental assessment is to be prepared, the Director will invite the Governor of each adjacent State to review and provide comments regarding the proposed activities. The Director's invitation to provide comments will allow the Governor a specified period of time to comment.
(c) When a permit is issued, the Director will notify affected parties including each affected coastal State, Federal agency, local government, and special interest organization that has expressed an interest.

# Penalties and Appeals
§ 580.32
What penalties may I be subject to?
(a)
Penalties for noncompliance under a permit.
You are subject to the penalty provisions of section 24 of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1350) and the procedures contained in 30 CFR part 550, subpart N for noncompliance with:
(1) Any provision of the Act;
(2) Any provisions of a G
G or drilling permit; or
(3) Any regulation or order issued under the Act.
(b)
Penalties under other laws and regulations.
The penalties prescribed in this section are in addition to any other penalty imposed by any other law or regulation.
§ 580.33
How can I appeal a penalty?
See 30 CFR part 550.1409 and 30 CFR part 590, subpart A, for instructions on how to appeal any decision assessing a civil penalty under 43 U.S.C. 1350 and 30 CFR part 550, subpart A.
§ 580.34
How can I appeal an order or decision?
See 30 CFR part 590, subpart A, for instructions on how to appeal an order or decision.

# Subpart D—Data Requirements

# Geological Data and Information
§ 580.40
When do I notify BOEM that geological data and information are available for submission, inspection, and selection?
(a) You must notify the Regional Director, in writing, when you complete the initial analysis, processing, or interpretation of any geological data and information. Initial analysis and processing are the stages of analysis or processing where the data and information first become available for in-house interpretation by the permittee or become available commercially to third parties via sale, trade, license agreement, or other means.
(b) The Regional Director may ask if you have further analyzed, processed, or interpreted any geological data and information. When asked, you must respond to us in writing within 30 days.
(c) The Regional Director may ask you or a third party to submit the analyzed, processed, or interpreted geologic data and information for us to inspect or permanently retain. You must submit the data and information within 30 days after such a request.
§ 580.41
What types of geological data and information must I submit to BOEM?
Unless the Regional Director specifies otherwise, you must submit geological data and information that include:
(a) An accurate and complete record of all geological (including geochemical) data and information describing each operation of analysis, processing, and interpretation;
(b) Paleontological reports identifying by depth any microscopic fossils collected, including the reference datum to which paleontological sample depths are related and, if the Regional Director requests, washed samples,
that you maintain for paleontological determinations;
(c) Copies of well logs or charts in a digital format, if available;
(d) Results and data obtained from formation fluid tests;
(e) Analyses of core or bottom samples and/or a representative cut or split of the core or bottom sample;
(f) Detailed descriptions of any hydrocarbons or other minerals or hazardous conditions encountered during operations, including near losses of well control, abnormal geopressures, and losses of circulation; and
(g) Other geological data and information that the RD may specify.
§ 580.42
When geological data and information are obtained by a third party, what must we both do?
A third party may obtain geological data and information from a permittee, or from another third party, by sale, trade, license agreement, or other means. If this happens:
(a) The third-party recipient of the data and information assumes the obligations under this part, except for the notification provisions of § 580.40(a) and is subject to the penalty provisions of § 580.32(a)(1) and 30 CFR part 550, subpart N; and
(b) A permittee or third party that sells, trades, licenses, or otherwise provides data and information to a third party must advise the recipient, in writing, that accepting these obligations is a condition precedent of the sale, trade, license, or other agreement; and
(c) Except for license agreements, a permittee or third party that sells, trades, or otherwise provides data and information to a third party must advise the Regional Director in writing within 30 days of the sale, trade, or other agreement, including the identity of the recipient of the data and information; or
(d) For license agreements, a permittee or third party that licenses data and information to a third party must, within 30 days of a request by the Regional Director, advise the Regional Director, in writing, of the license agreement, including the identity of the recipient of the data and information.

# Geophysical Data and Information
§ 580.50
When do I notify BOEM that geophysical data and information are available for submission, inspection, and selection?
(a) You must notify the Regional Director in writing when you complete the initial processing and interpretation of any geophysical data and information. Initial processing is the stage of processing where the data and information become available for in-house interpretation by the permittee, or become available commercially to third parties via sale, trade, license agreement, or other means.
(b) The Regional Director may ask whether you have further processed or interpreted any geophysical data and information. When asked, you must respond to us in writing within 30 days.
(c) The Regional Director may request that the permittee or third party submit geophysical data and information before making a final selection for retention. Our representatives may inspect and select the data and information on your premises, or the Regional Director can request delivery of the data and information to the appropriate regional office for review.
(d) You must submit the geophysical data and information within 30 days of receiving the request, unless the Regional Director extends the delivery time.
(e) At any time before final selection, the Regional Director may review and return any or all geophysical data and information. We will notify you in writing of any data the RD decides to retain.
§ 580.51
What types of geophysical data and information must I submit to BOEM?
Unless the Regional Director specifies otherwise, you must include:
(a) An accurate and complete record of each geophysical survey conducted under the permit, including digital navigational data and final location maps;
(b) All seismic data collected under a permit presented in a format and of a quality suitable for processing;
(c) Processed geophysical information derived from seismic data with extraneous signals and interference removed, presented in a quality format suitable for interpretive evaluation, reflecting state-of-the-art processing techniques; and
(d) Other geophysical data, processed geophysical information, and interpreted geophysical information including, but not limited to, shallow and deep subbottom profiles, bathymetry, sidescan sonar, gravity and magnetic surveys, and special studies such as refraction and velocity surveys.
§ 580.52
When geophysical data and information are obtained by a third party, what must we both do?
A third party may obtain geophysical data, processed geophysical information, or interpreted geophysical information from a permittee, or from another third party, by sale, trade, license agreement, or other means. If this happens:
(a) The third-party recipient of the data and information assumes the obligations under this part, except for the notification provisions of § 580.50(a) and is subject to the penalty provisions of § 580.32(a)(1) and 30 CFR 550, subpart N; and
(b) A permittee or third party that sells, trades, licenses, or otherwise provides data and information to a third party must advise the recipient, in writing, that accepting these obligations is a condition precedent of the sale, trade, license, or other agreement; and
(c) Except for license agreements, a permittee or third party that sells, trades, or otherwise provides data and information to a third party must advise the Regional Director, in writing within 30 days of the sale, trade, or other agreements, including the identity of the recipient of the data and information; or
(d) For license agreements, a permittee or third party that licenses data and information to a third party must, within 30 days of a request by the Regional Director, advise the Regional Director, in writing, of the license agreement, including the identity of the recipient of the data and information.

# Reimbursement
§ 580.60
Which of my costs will be reimbursed?
(a) We will reimburse you or a third party for reasonable costs of reproducing data and information that the Regional Director requests if:
(1) You deliver G
G data and information to us for the Regional Director to inspect or select and retain (according to §§ 580.40 and 580.50);
(2) We receive your request for reimbursement and the Regional Director determines that the requested reimbursement is proper; and
(3) The cost is at your lowest rate (or a third party's) or at the lowest commercial rate established in the area, whichever is less.
(b) We will reimburse you or the third party for the reasonable costs of processing geophysical information (which does not include cost of data acquisition) if, at the request of the Regional Director, you processed the geophysical data or information in a form or manner other than that used in the normal conduct of business.
§ 580.61
Which of my costs will not be reimbursed?
(a) When you request reimbursement, you must identify reproduction and processing costs separately from acquisition costs.
(b) We will not reimburse you or a third party for data acquisition costs or for the costs of analyzing or processing geological information or interpreting geological or geophysical information.

# Protections
§ 580.70
What data and information will be protected from public disclosure?
In making data and information available to the public, the Regional Director will follow the applicable requirements of:
(a) The Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552);
(b) The implementing regulations at 43 CFR part 2;
(c) The Act; and
(d) The regulations at 30 CFR parts 550 and 552.
(1) If the RD determines that any data or information is exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, we will not disclose the data and information unless either:
(i) You and all third parties agree to the disclosure; or
(ii) A provision of 30 CFR parts 550 and 552 allows us to make the disclosure.
(2) We will keep confidential the identity of third-party recipients of data and information collected under a permit. We will not release the identity unless you and the third parties agree to the disclosure.
(3) When you detect any significant hydrocarbon occurrences or environmental hazards on unleased lands during drilling operations, the Regional Director will immediately issue a public announcement. The announcement must further the National interest without unduly damaging your competitive position.
§ 580.71
What is the timetable for release of data and information?
We will release data and information that you or a third party submits and we retain according to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) If the data and information are not related to a deep stratigraphic test, we will release them to the public according to items (1), (2), and (3) in the following table:
If you or a third party submits and we retain . . .
The Regional Director will disclose them to the public . . .
(1) Geological data and information,
10 years after issuing the permit.
(2) Geophysical data,
50 years after you or a third party submit the data.
(3) Geophysical information,
25 years after you or a third party submit the information.
(4) Data and information related to a deep stratigraphic test,
25 years after you complete the test, unless the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section apply.
(b) This paragraph applies if you are covered by paragraph (a)(4) of this section and a lease sale is held or a noncompetitive agreement is negotiated after you complete a test well. We will release the data and information related to the deep stratigraphic test at the earlier of the following times:
(1) Twenty-five years after you complete the test; or
(2) Sixty calendar days after we issue a lease, located partly or totally within 50 geographic miles (92.7 kilometers) of the test.
§ 580.72
What procedure will BOEM follow to disclose acquired data and information to a contractor for reproduction, processing, and interpretation?
(a) When practical, the Regional Director will advise the person who submitted data and information under § 580.40 or § 580.50 of the intent to provide the data or information to an independent contractor or agent for reproduction, processing, and interpretation.
(b) The person notified will have at least five working days to comment on the action.
(c) When the Regional Director advises the person who submitted the data and information, all other owners of the data or information will be considered to have been notified.
(d) The independent contractor or agent must sign a written commitment not to sell, trade, license, or disclose data or information to anyone without the Regional Director's consent.
§ 580.73
Will BOEM share data and information with coastal States?
(a) We can disclose proprietary data, information, and samples submitted to us by permittees or third parties that we receive under this part to the Governor of any adjacent State that requests it according to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. The permittee or third parties who submitted proprietary data, information, and samples will be notified about the disclosure and will have at least five working days to comment on the action.
(b) We will make a disclosure under this section only after the Governor and the Secretary have entered into an agreement containing all of the following provisions:
(1) The confidentiality of the information will be maintained.
(2) In any action taken for failure to protect the confidentiality of proprietary information, neither the Federal Government nor the State may raise as a defense:
(i) Any claim of sovereign immunity; or
(ii) Any claim that the employee who revealed the proprietary information was acting outside the scope of his/her employment in revealing the information.
(3) The State agrees to hold the Federal Government harmless for any violation by the State or its employees or contractors of the agreement to protect the confidentiality of proprietary data and information and samples.
(4) The materials containing the proprietary data, information, and samples will remain the property of the Federal Government.
(c) The data, information, and samples available for reproduction to the State(s) under an agreement must be related to leased lands. Data and information on unleased lands may be viewed but not copied or reproduced.
(d) The State must return to us the materials containing the proprietary data, information, and samples when we ask for them or when the State no longer needs them.
(e) Information received and knowledge gained by a State official under paragraph (d) of this section is subject to confidentiality requirements of:
(1) The Act; and
(2) The regulations at 30 CFR parts 580, 581, and 582.

# Subpart E—Information Collection
§ 580.80
Paperwork Reduction Act statement—information collection.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection requirements in this part under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned OMB control number 1010-0072. The title of this information collection is “30 CFR part 580, Prospecting for Minerals other than Oil, Gas, and Sulphur on the Outer Continental Shelf.”
(b) We may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
(c) We use the information collected under this part to:
(1) Evaluate permit applications and monitor scientific research activities for environmental and safety reasons.
(2) Determine that prospecting does not harm resources, result in pollution, create hazardous or unsafe conditions, or interfere with other users in the area.
(3) Approve reimbursement of certain expenses.
(4) Monitor the progress and activities carried out under an OCS prospecting permit.
(5) Inspect and select G
G data and information collected under an OCS prospecting permit.
(d) Respondents are Federal OCS permittees and notice filers. Responses are mandatory or are required to obtain or retain a benefit. We will protect information considered proprietary under applicable law and under regulations at § 580.70 and 30 CFR part 581.
(e) Send comments regarding any aspect of the collection of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57098, Sept. 22, 2015]
Pt. 581

# PART 581—LEASING OF MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
581.0
Authority for information collection.
581.1
Purpose and applicability.
581.2
Authority.
581.3
Definitions.
581.4
Qualifications of lessees.
581.5
False statements.
581.6
Appeals.
581.7
Disclosure of information to the public.
581.8
Rights to minerals.
581.9
Jurisdictional controversies.

# Subpart B—Leasing Procedures
581.11
Unsolicited request for a lease sale.
581.12
Request for OCS mineral information and interest.
581.13
Joint State/Federal coordination.
581.14
OCS mining area identification.
581.15
Tract size.
581.16
Proposed leasing notice.
581.17
Leasing notice.
581.18
Bidding system.
581.19
Lease term.
581.20
Submission of bids.
581.21
Award of leases.
581.22
Lease form.
581.23
Effective date of leases.

# Subpart C—Financial Considerations
581.26
Payments.
581.27
Annual rental.
581.28
Royalty.
581.29
Royalty valuation.
581.30
Minimum royalty.
581.31
Overriding royalties.
581.32
Waiver, suspension, or reduction of rental, minimum royalty, or production royalty.
581.33
Bonds and bonding requirements.

# Subpart D—Assignments and Lease Extensions
581.40
Assignment of leases or interests therein.
581.41
Requirements for filing for transfers.
581.42
Effect of assignment on particular lease.
581.43
Effect of suspensions on lease term.

# Subpart E—Termination of Leases
581.46
Relinquishment of leases or parts of leases.
581.47
Cancellation of leases.

# Authority:
Section 104, Public Law 97-451, 96 Stat. 2451 (30 U.S.C. 1714), Public Law 109-432, Div C, Title I, 120 Stat. 3000; 30 U.S.C. 1751; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 43 U.S.C. 1334; 33 U.S.C. 2704, 2716; E.O. 12777, as amended; 43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.,
43 U.S.C. 1337.

# Source:
76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 581.0
Authority for information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in part 581 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507 and assigned clearance number 1010-0082. The information is being collected to determine if the applicant for a lease on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) is qualified to hold such a lease or to determine if a requested action is warranted. The information will be used to make those determinations. An applicant must respond to obtain or retain a benefit.
§ 581.1
Purpose and applicability.
The purpose of these regulations is to establish procedures under which the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) will exercise the authority granted to administer a leasing program for minerals other than oil, gas, and sulphur in the OCS. The rules in this part apply exclusively to leasing activities for minerals other than oil, gas, and sulphur in the OCS pursuant to the Act.
§ 581.2
Authority.
The Act authorizes the Secretary to grant leases for any mineral other than oil, gas, and sulphur in any area of the OCS to the qualified persons offering the highest cash bonuses on the basis of competitive bidding upon such royalty, rental, and other terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe at the time of offering the area for lease (43 U.S.C. 1337(k)). The Secretary is to administer the leasing provisions of the Act and prescribe the rules and regulations necessary to carry out those provisions (43 U.S.C. 1334(a)).
§ 581.3
Definitions.
When used in this part, the following terms shall have the following meaning:
Act
means the OCS Lands Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
).
Adjacent State
means with respect to any activity proposed, conducted, or approved under this part, any coastal State—
(1) That is, or is proposed to be, receiving for processing, refining, or transshipping OCS mineral resources commercially recovered from the seabed;
(2) That is used, or is scheduled to be used, as a support base for prospecting, exploration, testing, and mining activities; or
(3) In which there is a reasonable probability of significant effect on land or water uses from such activity.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) of the U.S. Department of the
Interior or an official authorized to act on the Director's behalf.
Governor
means the Governor of a State or the person or entity designated by, or pursuant to, State law to exercise the powers granted to such Governor pursuant to the Act.
Lease
means any form of authorization which is issued under section 8 of the Act and which authorizes exploration for, and development and production of, minerals, or the area covered by that authorization, whichever is required by the context.
Lessee
means the person authorized by a lease, or an approved assignment thereof, to explore for and develop and produce the leased deposits in accordance with the regulations in this chapter. The term includes all persons holding that authority by or through the lessee.
OCS mineral
means a mineral deposit or accretion found on or below the surface of the seabed but does not include oil, gas, sulphur; salt or sand and gravel intended for use in association with the development of oil, gas, or sulphur; or source materials essential to production of fissionable materials which are reserved to the United States pursuant to section 12(e) of the Act.
Outer Continental Shelf
means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301) and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Overriding royalty
means a royalty created out of the lessee's interest which is over and above the royalty reserved to the lessor in the original lease.
Person
means a citizen or national of the United States; an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residency in the United States as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20); a private, public, or municipal corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any State or territory thereof; an association of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens or private, public, or municipal corporations, States, or political subdivisions of States; or anyone operating in a manner provided for by treaty or other applicable international agreements. The term does not include Federal Agencies.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an official authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.
§ 581.4
Qualifications of lessees.
(a) In accordance with section 8(k) of the Act, leases shall be awarded only to qualified persons offering the highest cash bonus bid.
(b) Mineral leases issued pursuant to section 8 of the Act may be held only by:
(1) Citizens and nationals of the United States;
(2) Aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20);
(3) Private, public, or municipal corporations organized under the laws of the United States or of any State or of the District of Columbia or territory thereof; or
(4) Associations of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens, or private, public, or municipal corporations, States, or political subdivisions of States.
§ 581.5
False statements.
Under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1001, it is a crime punishable by up to 5 years imprisonment or a fine of $10,000, or both, for anyone knowingly and willfully to submit or cause to be submitted to any Agency of the United States any false or fraudulent statement(s) to any matters within the Agency's jurisdiction.
§ 581.6
Appeals.
Any party adversely affected by a decision of a BOEM official made pursuant to the provisions of this part shall have the right of appeal pursuant to 30 CFR part 590, except as provided otherwise in § 581.21 of this part.
§ 581.7
Disclosure of information to the public.
The Secretary shall make data and information available to the public in accordance with the requirements and subject to the limitations of the Act, the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), and the implementing regulations (30 CFR parts 580, 582, and 43 CFR part 2).
§ 581.8
Rights to minerals.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in the leasing notice, a lease for OCS minerals shall include rights to all minerals within the leased area except the following;
(1) Minerals subject to rights granted by existing leases;
(2) Oil;
(3) Gas;
(4) Sulphur;
(5) Minerals produced in direct association with oil, gas, or sulphur;
(6) Salt deposits which are identified in the leasing notice as being reserved;
(7) Sand and gravel deposits which are identified in the leasing notice as being reserved; and
(8) Source materials essential to production of fissionable materials which are reserved pursuant to section 12(a) of the Act.
(b) When an OCS mineral lease issued under this part limits the minerals to which rights are granted, such lease shall include rights to minerals produced in direct association with the OCS mineral specified in the lease but not the rights to minerals specifically reserved.
(c) The existence of an OCS mineral, oil and gas, or sulphur lease shall not preclude the issuance of a lease(s) for other OCS minerals in the same area. However, no OCS mineral lease shall authorize or permit the lessee thereunder to unreasonably interfere with or endanger operations under an existing OCS mineral, oil and gas, or sulphur lease.
§ 581.9
Jurisdictional controversies.
In the event of a controversy between the United States and a State as to whether certain lands are subject to Federal or State jurisdiction (43 U.S.C. 1336), either the Governor or the Secretary may initiate negotiations in an attempt to settle the jurisdictional controversy. With the concurrence of the Attorney General, the Secretary may enter into an agreement with a State with respect to OCS mineral activities under the Act or under State authority and to payment and impounding of rents, royalties, and other sums and with respect to the offering of lands for lease pending settlement of the controversy.

# Subpart B—Leasing Procedures
§ 581.11
Unsolicited request for a lease sale.
(a) Any person may at any time request that OCS minerals be offered for lease. A request that OCS minerals be offered for lease shall be submitted to the Director and shall contain the following information:
(1) The area to be offered for lease.
(2) The OCS minerals of primary interest.
(3) The available OCS mineral resource and environmental information pertaining to the area of interest to be offered for lease which supports the request.
(b) Within 45 days after receipt of a request submitted under paragraph (a) of this section, the Director shall either initiate steps leading to the offer of OCS minerals for lease and notify the applicant of the action taken or inform the applicant of the reasons for not initiating steps leading to the offer of OCS minerals for lease.
(c) Any interested party may at any time submit information to the Director concerning the scheduling of proposed lease sales of OCS minerals in any area of the OCS. Such information may include but not be limited to any of the following:
(1) Benefits of conducting a lease sale in an area.
(2) Costs of conducting a lease sale in an area.
(3) Geohazards which could be encountered in an area.
(4) Geological information about an area and mineral resource potential.
(5) Environmental information about an area.
(6) Information about known archaeological resources in an area.
§ 581.12
Request for OCS mineral information and interest.
(a) When considering whether to offer OCS minerals for lease, the Secretary, upon the Department of the Interior's own initiative or as a result of a submission under § 581.11, may request indications of interest in the leasing of a specific OCS mineral, a group of OCS minerals, or all OCS minerals in the area being considered for lease. Requests for information and interest
shall be published in the
Federal Register
and may be published elsewhere.
(b) States and local governments, industry, other Federal Agencies, and all interested parties (including the public) may respond to a request for information and interest. All information provided to the Secretary will be considered in the decision whether to proceed with additional steps leading to the offering of OCS minerals for lease.
(c) The Secretary may request specific information concerning the offering of a specific OCS mineral, a group of OCS minerals, or all OCS minerals in a broad area for lease or the offering of one or more discrete tracts which represent a minable orebody. The Secretary's request may ask for comments on OCS areas which have been determined to warrant special consideration and analysis. Requests may be for comments concerning geological conditions or archaeological resources on the seabed; multiple uses of the area proposed for leasing, including navigation, recreation and fisheries; and other socioeconomic, biological, and environmental information relating to the area proposed for leasing.
§ 581.13
Joint State/Federal coordination.
(a) The Secretary may invite the adjacent State Governor(s) to join in, or the adjacent State Governor(s) may request that the Secretary join in, the establishment of a State/Federal task force or some other joint planning or coordination arrangement when industry interest exists for OCS mineral leasing or geological information appears to support the leasing of OCS minerals in specific areas. Participation in joint State/Federal task forces or other arrangements will afford the adjacent State Governor(s) opportunity for access to available data and information about the area; knowledge of progress made in the leasing process and of the results of subsequent exploration and development activities; facilitate the resolution of issues of mutual interest; and provide a mechanism for planning, coordination, consultation, and other activities which the Secretary and the Governor(s) may identify as contributing to the leasing process.
(b) State/Federal task forces or other such arrangements are to be constituted pursuant to such terms and conditions (consistent with Federal law and these regulations) as the Secretary and the adjacent State Governor(s) may agree.
(c) State/Federal task forces or other such arrangements will provide a forum which the Secretary and adjacent State Governor(s) may use for planning, consultation, and coordination on concerns associated with the offering of OCS minerals other than oil, gas, or sulphur for lease.
(d) With respect to the activities authorized under these regulations each State/Federal task force may make recommendations to the Secretary and adjacent State Governor(s) concerning:
(1) The identification of areas in which OCS minerals might be offered for lease;
(2) The potential for conflicts between the exploration and development of OCS mineral resources, other users and uses of the area, and means for resolution or mitigation of these conflicts;
(3) The economic feasibility of developing OCS mineral resources in the area proposed for leasing;
(4) Potential environmental problems and measures that might be taken to mitigate these problems;
(5) Development of guidelines and procedures for safe, environmentally responsible exploration and development practices; and
(6) Other issues of concern to the Secretary and adjacent State Governor(s).
(e) State/Federal task forces or other such arrangements might also be used to conduct or oversee research, studies, or reports (e.g., Environmental Impact Statements).
§ 581.14
OCS mining area identification.
The Secretary, after considering the available OCS mineral resources and environmental data and information, the recommendation of any joint State/Federal task force established pursuant to § 581.13 of this part, and the comments received from interested parties, shall select the tracts to be considered for offering for lease. The selected
tracts will be considered in the environmental analysis conducted for the proposed lease offering.
§ 581.15
Tract size.
The size of the tracts to be offered for lease shall be as determined by the Secretary and specified in the leasing notice. It is intended that tracts offered for lease be sufficiently large to include potentially minable OCS mineral orebodies. When the presence of any minable orebody is unknown and additional prospecting is needed to discover and delineate OCS minerals, the size of tracts specified in the leasing notice may be relatively large.
§ 581.16
Proposed leasing notice.
(a) Prior to offering OCS minerals in an area for lease, the Director shall assess the available information including recommendations of any joint State/Federal task force established pursuant to § 581.13 of this part to determine lease sale procedures to be prescribed and to develop a proposed leasing notice which sets out the proposed primary term of the OCS mineral leases to be offered; lease stipulations including measures to mitigate potentially adverse impacts on the environment; and such rental, royalty, and other terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe in the leasing notice.
(b) The proposed leasing notice shall be sent to the Governor(s) of any adjacent State(s), and a Notice of its availability shall be published in the
Federal Register
at least 60 days prior to the publication of the leasing notice.
(c) Written comments of the adjacent State Governor(s) submitted within 60 days after publication of the Notice of Availability of the proposed leasing notice shall be considered by the Secretary.
(d) Prior to publication of the leasing notice, the Secretary shall respond in writing to the comments of the adjacent State Governor(s) stating the reasons for accepting or rejecting the Governor's recommendations, or for implementing any alternative mutually acceptable approach identified in consultation with the Governor(s) as a means to provide a reasonable balance between the National interest and the well being of the citizens of the adjacent State.
§ 581.17
Leasing notice.
(a) The Director shall publish the leasing notice in the
Federal Register
at least 30 days prior to the date that OCS minerals will be offered for lease. The leasing notice shall state whether oral or sealed bids or a combination thereof will be used; the place, date, and time at which sealed bids shall be filed; and the place, date, and time at which sealed bids shall be opened and/or oral bids received. The leasing notice shall contain or reference a description of the tract(s) to be offered for lease; specify the mineral(s) to be offered for lease (if less than all OCS minerals are being offered); specify the period of time the primary term of the lease shall cover; and any stipulation(s), term(s), and condition(s) of the offer to lease (43 U.S.C. 1337(k)).
(b) The leasing notice shall contain a reference to the OCS minerals lease form which shall be issued to successful bidders.
(c) The leasing notice shall specify the terms and conditions governing the payment of the winning bid.
§ 581.18
Bidding system.
(a) The OCS minerals shall be offered by competitive, cash bonus bidding under terms and conditions specified in the leasing notice and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.
(b)(1) When the leasing notice specifies the use of sealed bids, such bids received in response to the leasing notice shall be opened at the place, date, and time specified in the leasing notice. The sole purpose of opening bids is to publicly announce and record the bids received, and no bids shall be accepted or rejected at that time.
(2) The Secretary reserves the right to reject any and all sealed bids received for any tract, regardless of the amount offered.
(3) In the event the highest bids are tie bids when using sealed bidding procedures, the tied bidders may be permitted to submit oral bids to determine the highest cash bonus bidder.
(c)(1) When the leasing notice specifies the use of oral bids, oral bids shall be received at the place, time, and date and in accordance with the procedures specified in the leasing notice.
(2) The Secretary reserves the right to reject all oral bids received for any tract, regardless of the amount offered.
(d) When the leasing notice specifies the use of deferred cash bonus bidding, bids shall be received in accordance with paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as appropriate. The high bid will be determined based upon the net present value of each total bid. The appropriate discount rate will be specified in the leasing notice. High bidders using the deferred bonus option shall pay a minimum of 20 percent of the cash bonus bid prior to lease issuance. At least a total of 60 percent of the cash bonus bid shall be due on or before the 5th anniversary of the lease, and payment of the remainder of the cash bonus bid shall be due on the 10th anniversary of the lease. The lessee shall submit a bond guaranteeing payment of the deferred portion of the bonus, in accordance with § 581.33.
§ 581.19
Lease term.
An OCS mineral lease for OCS minerals other than sand and gravel shall be for a primary term of not less than 20 years as stipulated in the leasing notice. The primary lease term for each OCS mineral shall be determined based on exploration and development requirements for the OCS minerals being offered by the Secretary. An OCS mineral lease for sand and gravel shall be for a primary term of 10 years unless otherwise stipulated in the leasing notice. A lease will continue beyond the specified primary term for so long thereafter as leased OCS minerals are being produced in accordance with an approved mining operation or the lessee is otherwise in compliance with provisions of the lease and the regulations in this chapter under which a lessee can earn continuance of the OCS mineral lease in effect.
§ 581.20
Submission of bids.
(a) If the bidder is an individual, a statement of citizenship shall accompany the bid.
(b) If the bidder is an association (including a partnership), the bid shall be accompanied by a certified statement indicating the State in which it is registered and that the association is authorized to hold mineral leases on the OCS, or appropriate reference to statements or records previously submitted to a BOEM OCS office (including material submitted in compliance with prior regulations).
(c) If the bidder is a corporation, the bid shall be accompanied by the following information:
(1) Either a statement certified by the corporate Secretary or Assistant Secretary over the corporate seal showing the State in which it was incorporated and that it is authorized to hold mineral leases on the OCS or appropriate reference to statements or record previously submitted to a BOEM OCS office (including material submitted in compliance with prior regulations).
(2) Evidence of authority of persons signing to bind the corporation. Such evidence may be in the form of a certified copy of either the minutes of the board of directors or of the bylaws indicating that the person signing has authority to do so, or a certificate to that effect signed by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the corporation over the corporate seal, or appropriate reference to statements or records previously submitted to a BOEM OCS office (including material submitted in compliance with prior regulations). Bidders are advised to keep their filings current.
(3) The bid shall be executed in conformance with corporate requirements.
(d) Bidders should be aware of the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1860, which prohibits unlawful combination or intimidation of bidders.
(e) When sealed bidding is specified in the leasing notice, a separate sealed bid shall be submitted for each bid unit that is bid upon as described in the leasing notice. A bid may not be submitted for less than a bidding unit identified in the leasing notice.
(f) When oral bidding is specified in the leasing notice, information which must accompany a bid pursuant to paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, shall be presented to BOEM at the
lease sale prior to the offering of an oral bid.
§ 581.21
Award of leases.
(a)(1) The decision of the Director on bids shall be the final action of the Department, subject only to reconsideration by the Secretary, pursuant to a written request in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The delegation of review authority to the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall not be applicable to decisions on high bids for leases in the OCS.
(2) Any bidder whose bid is rejected by the Director may file a written request for reconsideration with the Secretary within 15 days of notice of rejection, accompanied by a statement of reasons with a copy to the Director. The Secretary shall respond in writing either affirming or reversing the decision.
